ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Vesna Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66625	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, today I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Social and Combat Affairs. In fact, the fact is that our population is getting older and that with the average age of 43.2 years, we belong to 20 countries with the oldest population. The expected years of life for women are 78 years, and for men, 73 years, with this trend even more pronounced in the coming decades. In that sense, we believe that our country should also adapt the pension, health and social system to this fact. The attitude towards the old, in every society, is a profound ethical question, because they are the ones who created for us, as we create for our descendants. So, our citizens, older age, are a particularly sensitive category, and as a society, we have a duty to issues of age and age, to pay even more attention. The relationship between society and the elderly should be directed towards active ageing and such that it enables the use of all the capacities of this part of the population, and when necessary care, it is necessary to ensure the necessary and sufficient protection and social care of the old, powerless and sick, so as to ensure their dignified ageing and treatment. In solving their problems, especially from a health and social aspect, but also from educational cultural and other aspects of social care, a multi-resor approach is necessary. Today, the care of the elderly is accomplished within the family, which itself is cared for or assisted by the geronto housewife, when it comes to the elderly, who have no family, who care for them or at specialized gerantological centers. As more and more old ones, who need constant care, it is time to think about the carers, both in families and in homes of old and other institutions, where the old ones are located. The fact is that today is not enough carers especially when it comes to rural environments. In this regard, I would like to ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Social and Combat Affairs, we know that a new national ageing strategy is being prepared because the previous one was valid until 2015, and in this context I would like to ask, will the strategy consider the need of the elderly for even more organised social care including the active role of health and social protection, i.e. custody bodies, as well as the family that cares for the old family members? In this regard, we also believe that the budget surplus that Serbia has thanks to positive economic indicators should be used to strengthen the social function of the state, this time to improve the position of security of dignified ageing for our old people. Another question, Minister, when is work expected to end on the new Aging Strategy for the coming period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66626	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The president of the SRS parliamentary group, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Culture Minister Vladna Vukosavljevic and Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic, why have they not yet responded to the radical initiative that the works of a great Serbian friend, Nobel laureate Peter Handke, are being printed in Serbia as soon as possible? Although the whole world knows that Peter Handke is a Serbian friend, even many who have never read any of his books, the Nobel Committee and its magnificent work could not bypass, so he gave him a reward. He was raised by hooks and pests, mostly illiterate and semi-written Serbian enemies, people who don't read books at all, raised noise, demonstrated in Stockholm against the award, and forbidding him to come to Sarajevo, Pristina, there will be more places like that. It is now a good time for Serbia to express its gratitude that the government does not take over itself, especially these two competent ministries, to take money from the budget reserve if there is no other way, to hire our best state publishing houses, the Official Messenger and the Institute for the Publishing of textbooks, and possible participation to offer itself to the Serbian literary community. To hire the best translators in German, to review the translations so far to issue works and to prepare the full works for the press within two, three months. Then, the government should present to all libraries in Serbia, primary and secondary schools, a number of Handke's collected works and make the rest accessible to all citizens at favourable prices. So we're not interested in any profit, we want Peter Handke to get a solid fee, and the books at the most affordable price to be available to citizens, just enough for a citizen who pays to pay and to keep that book after he's paid. There, Serbia would demonstrate its gratitude and show its other friends that it did not forget the help they had given them in the most difficult days, even though moral, even though political support for people who had the courage to say it is not true against the world public opinion, Serbs are not criminals, Serbs are not guilty of war, Serbs are victims of Western propaganda and the instrumentalisation of traditional Serbian enemies who, in every opportunity and through two world wars and at the end of the 90th century, raise blood interest on Serb necks, on Serbian women and children. The Serbs did not challenge the war, did not even start it, but they had to fight the country's war, and they suffered huge sacrifices and destruction, but still a significant amount of wealth that resembles Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66628	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66629	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, taking into account the government's latest regulation on criteria for determining activities that have a negative impact on the environment according to the amount of pollution and regulation of ecotaxes, and often in the media you can see that ecotaxes are being spent is not a purposeful question of what will be taken by the relevant ministry on better and more efficient charges, as well as the control of the spending of the same funds, what has been said at the last session of the Assembly Committee on the Protection of the Environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66630	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66631	Thank you, Chairman. I refer my question, which is probably more of a request and appeal, to the finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Malo. In fact, the Temerin municipality began to build sewers back in 1996, and the project lasts for 23 years. Most of the work is covered by the municipal budget as well as the loans taken by local self-government for this purpose. During the second half of last year, the environment ministry showed good will to participate in the realisation of a 3.5m-euro purification project, which would meet the needs of the Temerin sewerage network. The context of the funds was not realised by the end of last year, so the agreement remained to be realised during March or April of this year, which is why it did not come again. Meanwhile, the government of the AP Vojvodina was ready to assist in the implementation of the project, however, it remains at the heart of the project to be co-financed jointly by the Temerin municipality and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Two months ago, the Temerin municipality was contacted by the ministry to complete project documentation and deliver a new request to the ministry at 120m dinars. According to information we have, in the meantime, the budget rebalancing has led to some changes in the projections, but in addition, the Ministry of Environmental Protection succeeded in providing funds and sending a request to the finance ministry to grant the transfer of funds. So, I would use this form of parliamentary question to ask Minister Sinisha Malloy to meet the application and in the interest of 30,000 citizens of Temerin municipality, who have been waiting two and a half decades for the completion of work on the sewerage network, and to give consent to this transfer of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66632	Thank you, bag buddy. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66633	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform the public that today is 346 a day that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs, a job for which they receive a regular salary from Serbian citizens and thus show their relationship to the function they perform also towards the National Assembly, but also to the citizens of Serbia. I have a few MPs' questions. Namely, many media outlets have released very disturbing information that a recently arrested Tocilo, who was arrested with 77kg of heroin, is in fact Bosko Obradovic's best man, Gilas's chief assaulter. So I ask the Ministry of the Interior if they have any knowledge of these allegations, because it is very important to establish this because in this case the public would get many answers? If this turns out to be true, then it is clear to everyone why Bosko Obradovic has been wild around Belgrade for days. You saw the other night of that crazy thing, I'd say totally schizophrenic behavior, when he tried to break into the National Assembly with a group of his supporters, and especially what the media wrote about this Tocillo being financially involved in the work of the Alliance for Serbia, in their activities, so he financed their protests and so on. It is extremely important that all these ties between criminals and leaders of the Alliance for Serbia be revealed, especially if we have in mind a similar case with Boskov's boss, Dragan Djilas and his brother-in-law, Dabovic, who was arrested and sentenced to several years in prison for drug dealing. Here's what it looks like, there's a picture in public, there's Gilas, there's this Dabovic, here's a hug. I don't know if the camera can zoom in. So, it is finally clear to everyone how this brutal campaign led by the Alliance for Serbia led against all officials of the interior ministry, starting with Nebojsa Stefanovic, through the director of the Rebic police, and to Papic, whom they have been after in the last days. Why the Papic? The answer is because this is the very one who led the arrest of Dabovic, the one who was arrested for cocaine, for 2.4 kilos of cocaine. Now I wonder if this is Dragan Gilas' personal revenge against that Papic, and will they take revenge on all the cops who did their job in the future? We can only imagine what it would look like if we came to power, Gilas would probably shine on himself and on all those cops who would write him and the traffic tickets at the same time. That is why we now have the daily fabrication of affairs and the daily campaign directed against the President of the Republic against Nebojsa Stefanovic and everyone else just to avoid talking and not to write about the relationship between Bosko Obradovic, Dragan Djilas and all others with the most nakedest criminals. Look at what Dragan Gilas and the rest of these days in Brussels are doing, opening their country, easing their country of trees and stones, both in the country and in the people. Here's what it looks like. Here they are, all in turn, Dragan Djilas, there's this Ana Stevanović, there's this on-call Tanja Fajon, there's Nebojsa Zelenović from Sapca, there's Dejan Nikolic, the Democratic Party MP, everyone in Brussels and trees and stones throw both around the country and the people, and there's no shame. In doing so, they acknowledged the independence of the Kosovos. So Nebojsa Zelenovic said in his statement that the opposition is co-operating with cities in the countries of the region, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Albania, Kosovo, it said. So he clearly presented Kosovo as a state and thus showed the Alliance for Serbia programme, when it comes to Kosovo, it is an independent state for them. In particular, the question of whose expense did they travel and stay in Brussels, where do they open their own country? About whose expense? Come on, for Gilas we know, at least he's got money, he's got 619m euros, he's got money, what's one ticket to Brussels for him. Where did Annie Stevanović come from? Who financed that? It's probably Dragan Gilas, bearing in mind that she's a member of his party's presidency. Who paid Dejan Nikolic's ticket when his client's account was blocked? Has Dragan Gilas or saved from his parliamentary salary, since he is not coming to work. And the particular question is who paid for Nebojsa Zelenovic's ticket and stay as Mayor of Zapca? Did he travel there at the expense of the citizens of Whispers? If it turns out it is, it requires the immediate resignation of Nebojka Zelenovic, because it is not paid by the citizens of Sapca to go around the white world and to panic its country, but to take care of the interests of the town of Sapca, or to solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66634	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. We move to a search in detail on the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Financial Activities. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance; Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice; Goran Knezevic, Minister of Business; Branko Ružić, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government; Zoran Djordjevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs; Branislav Nedimovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management; Prof. Dr Slavica Đukić Dejanović, Minister without portfolio; Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Radomir Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice; Dubravka Drakulić, Assistant Minister of Justice; Jovan Ćosic, Deputy Assistant Minister of Justice; Vesna Jevtic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance; Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice; Irena Bulatović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and Vladimir Vinš, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Justice. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Verica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Petar Jojic, Ružica Nikolic, Aleksandar Seselj, Tomislav Ljubenović, Natasa Sp. Jovanovic, Zoran Despotovic, Marijan Risticevic, Djordje Komlenski, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66635	In a restored multi-party in Serbia, this is the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, you were an MP in that first, how much memory I serve. The elections were first held on 9 December 1990. You came today on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I assume you are defending the draft laws on amending and financing the Law on political parties. What is in this article 1 that we are seeking to delete, and that is precisely this amendment, really offends the intelligence of every voter in Serbia who comes out, 11 times already to the elections, including one who does not go out, let alone the MPs and all of us who have witnessed all the changes in the law and all the events in the past 30 years. Is it normal for you to, on a proposal from the two left, failed Members of the European Parliament, Kukan and Flekenstein, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, namely the Government, to pass a law in which, in this Article 1, it explains, please, that the citizens of Serbia know what an election campaign is, how it is conducted and what a flyer is, what a billboard, so as if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, see how those Western politicians from the EU and you failed us like these two, treat us, we absolutely know nothing, and they need to explain it to us now. The bottom line is, yes, even though we're discussing today and what you're going to bring probably tomorrow in the voting day of this law, they're essentially not going to change anything. There will, of course, continue to be abuses in the financing of party political activities, states that are in power and that use all possible resources and not only resources belonging to them as parties, but also third parties, who can and can affect the course of election campaigns, financing, money flows and all that other parties, such as opposition parties, cannot have, because they are strictly and restrictively required to submit a report on the minimum resources allocated under the law for this type of campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66636	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Member of the 1st Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are no representatives of the Drpocrat Party, the Democratic Party, which will not prevent me from talking about funding political activities. The money is meant for political parties and he has some purpose under the law if that money goes into tycoon pockets, then that's the problem. I'm a personally and MP group not so big against being able to buy the party's debts. Why? The campaigner should spend as much money as he has. If it goes down to minus, that minus then it can cover only the party that made that minus. If we allow legal and physical persons after the election to buy the party's debts, then we make several mistakes, or they did. If the tycoon sees any party he likes, he can get them to spend more than they have. By buying the debt, he becomes a kind of party donor, which is not covered by the law and the Anti-Corruption Agency. He's becoming an unauthorized donor. There's no limit for him. So, this party can spend as much money as it wants beyond all limits because regular donors have as much limit as they can donate to foreigners, but if you let it be in charge and if the legal and physical person can buy that debt in excess of those limits, you have an illicit donor who can be ordered. On the other hand, this illicit donor, whether legal or physical, can affect the life and political decisions of the party and thus the state of the country. He can sacrifice the country's national and state interests through a party he manages by buying debts. If someone else has made an interest agreement with the party at an annual level, that party is pushing them into debt slavery. Don't think this isn't happening. All of this was done by Dragan Gillas. Dragan Gilas now lords the DS by buying a debt after the election and buying a debt in the amount that the legal person could not regularly donate. As an irregular donor, he became the Democratic, or Drpocrat party's boss. These days, those who denied it for two years while they were here when I was saying it, say to each other that they are in debt slavery, that Gilas bought the party, that through interest he has become once again an unauthorized donor and launders money because the interest money does not show as a profit of his legal person who bought the debt, but points to the NGO Davidovic, allegedly to finance DS. It's an unauthorized way of funding, under number one. Under number 2, the money paid to that NGO is not subject to the control of the Anti-Corruption Agency and thus avoids control and raises money in cash from that NGO and puts it in its pocket. Em controls the client. Em's got it. In a certain way, he bought political influence through such a party. Em bought another party, bought MPs' clubs, and today he's talking about stealing votes? The biggest voice thief is Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic. In order to be in the Assembly, you must be on the electoral list that has its own bearer and which has its own proposing, political parties or a group of citizens, you must get a certain number of votes on condition that you have met the censorship. One term costs from 14,000 to 15,000 votes. Today on the theft of votes across the EU, etc., in parliament around Tanja Fajon crocodile tears about stealing votes, see who is casting – Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, the people who bought the parliamentary clubs. For 11 MPs, you need about 160,000 votes. The parties that did not even participate in the 2016 elections have two or three parliamentary clubs with 11 MPs. This is thanks to illegal money, illegal financing of political activities. So, 160,000 votes finished are certainly not supporters of the Social Democrats League. They did not vote for Marinika Tepic in Djilas' party, but voted for Canka, Boris Tadic and Ceda Jovanovic, as I recall. Then she transmitted 15,000 votes as a package. She also carried it to Mr. Jankovic's Free Citizens' Movement, then to Mr. Zivkovic, and then to those 15,000 votes, which were never intended for those parties, passed it on to Dragan Gilas. Then he bought the party, bought the MPs' clubs. It's an illegal financing that we have to get in the way of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66638	Thank you, colleague Rističević. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66639	Thank you, Chairman. Dear government representatives, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals that are today ahead of us are the result, primarily of SNS efforts, of improving electoral conditions in Serbia. Minister Stefanovic is headed by the Working Group, which deals with elections in terms of improving the electoral process in terms of increasing transparency, as well as making changes that will specifically refer to officials participating in the election campaign. The government adopted a conclusion that clearly defines rules for government members, but also other appointed and appointed persons, directors and other public officials who prohibit the use of public gatherings as functionaries, but in order to promote their party, electoral programme or in terms of calling people to vote. Therefore, officials must not abuse their function to present an electoral programme or to use public resources, such as rooms, official vehicles and other inventory of state authorities and institutions. Also, at work, they must not promote party character and their conversants, of course, have to be introduced in a certain way, or they must emphasize what quality they are talking to. What is good for me is that criminal liability, that all such behaviours will be treated as a violation of the duty of employment, and it is good that sanctions can be imposed for non-compliance with these rules. A party function and a state function must be separated, i.e. it must be distinguished between what is one and what is other. The bill contains activities, therefore, to strengthen the responsibilities of political entities involved in the election in terms of the use and availability of public resources. In this way we raised the scale of responsibility again, this responsibility of course also applies to the SNS, and this responsibility and seriousness of the SNS has also been demonstrated at meetings, both at the Faculty of Political Sciences and in the Assembly, which are organised as talks between the authorities and the opposition concerning precisely improving electoral processes, i.e. improving the electoral process. What's most important is that we have shown willingness to discuss amendments to the electoral laws that they have just passed. So we're all aware of what this is all about. This is about the laws that were passed in 2008 or 2009 or 2011, and now they don't correspond exactly to the ones that brought them. Then everything was perfect, the electoral process was impeccable, everything was arranged and transparent, and now suddenly these same laws are not good enough to provide conditions under which elections will take place, and apparently this is the reason for a boycott of elections on their part. Of course, the reason for the boycott of the election is clear to us. It is the electoral will of citizens who are largely and primarily focused on supporting the SNS, but besides all that, and besides all the things they hide behind, we have no problem being willing to work on improving the electoral process, working on the changes I've just talked about and not having a problem and checking the election will of citizens in elections, because that's what gives legitimacy. And behind the SNS are the results, and behind those who fear the election and who will boycott the election, regardless of all concessions or any changes and additions to the laws that we do, there is absolutely nothing behind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66640	Thank you, colleague. According to the amendment, the word is made by MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66641	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, a respected minister, respected MPs, has passed a former election law. We operate under those laws in accordance with the electoral conditions that were in force in 2012. That's when we, as an opposition, went to the polls and won. The opposition and their media hide the crucial facts that all electoral conditions are legislative and media-made by them while they were in power until 2012. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law, in a more comprehensive way, define what is meant by the election campaign. Political activities carried out during the election campaign have been specified, so that there is no confusion about the use of public resources. Changes and additions should bring greater responsibility to public resources. Also, the essence and greater responsibility of the participants, the greater powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency, all this says that we have done many things that the previous government has not done. So it's not about them whether these election conditions are good enough, it's about what they know the result of the elections. They'd like to come to power without a choice. Stability, economic progress, reconciliation, political strength is what citizens recognise. More investment, new jobs, an increase in earnings, these are topics that Serbian citizens want for their future and the future of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66642	Thank you, colleague Ljubic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Krsto Janjušević has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66643	Thank you, Chairman. Dearly beloved, it is very important to point out and underline who people who are not satisfied with the electoral conditions. In 2000, 2004, 2007, 2008 the same electoral law was excellent, praised, most important, and then 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, and Belgrade elections 2018, before that a convincing victory in the presidential elections of Aleksandr Vukic was already a problem with the same election laws, but the same. Who are the people who cried in front of the European parliamentarians yesterday, more precisely, in the empty room, they were supposed to be in front, but they were crying in front of empty chairs? So we have to do it again even though they try to abuse it and transfer it to the subject “you’re bored, you said it a hundred times,” no, this is a very serious thing to make someone who mentions it a lot of times boring. It's too serious. So he's not satisfied with Dragan Gilas, for example. Too bad yesterday in front of those five-six parliamentarians, if they were billions or I don't know if they were security, but there were about five or six people, they should have shown their property card. This is the first document he was supposed to show while he was complaining about electoral conditions in Serbia, how did I earn 619m euros while I was in power in Serbia? From the coat of arms of the people of Serbia. Zelenovic could also show recognition of his co-worker about the purchase of votes in Sapac. There's this document. He was supposed to show that document when they were already complaining about election conditions. They could also show some of the attitudes of their coalition partner and runner, Bosko Obradovic, that when they win, they would populate the houses of members of the SNS, who should rape their daughters and mothers, so we from the SNS. Here is fascism, here is the heavy fascism present that they were supposed to present to European parliamentarians, and also what they think of migrants. So, migrants are people who, when they come somewhere, necessarily rape everything, just as European of one member of the Alliance for Serbia. Maybe they should have told us where Vuk Jeremic's income came from while they were complaining about Serbia. As he lived, can he enter a hotel under five stars? He can't fit in, he just can't breathe in a hotel without five stars. They were supposed to present the document where Sinisa Kovacevic says they're going to beat us. So it's allowed to beat us all. They were supposed to present the document, more specifically all the calls and targets they drew on Alexander Vukic and five bullets in the back, all of them were supposed to present it because it's the only program they ran for, and they have a problem crossing the censorship. Look at the wonders, with these programs they can't cross the census. To throw us at Savi, the Danube, to piss on our graves, as they say, and so forth. No idea what, how, what they'd do better, no. Do we today have something worse in the economy in Serbia's position in the world, international reputation, which is worse than in 2012 or do we have anything in 2012 that was better than today? We don't. They have located the points where we are best progressed, where we are leaders, where we become leaders in the Balkans safely, and also in the serious part of Europe, and that is the Purpose Industry. You've seen them hit with skill. You know, Marinika saw a case of guns somewhere, so she posted it on Facebook, and then someone got into a fight with someone, and somebody knows someone, so it's probably smuggled into the vice president of the government. And someone was growing marijuana somewhere, and then when he was arrested, he phoned the president's brother. What kind of crucial evidence is that? Well, that's too serious evidence, and I don't know how these people weren't arrested right away. It's a disaster. He's attacking the family. So here there is, and we haven't heard a single point of some sort of program idea to say people, I mean only the Alliance for Serbia, let's work it out like this, let's work it out like that. What's their problem with the Dedicated Industry? Do they mind the Dedicated Industry because it is, for example, In 2013, Krusik had a income of 1.2 billion dinars, and in 2018 11 billion and 385 million, or are they bothered by the same Krusik who in 2013, had 1,264 employees with a pretty messy, still messy salary, and today 3,231 employees? Does that bother them? Do they want to destroy the Purpose Industry? Do they think of people who are employed in the Purpose Industry, Sevojn, Užica "First Partizan", in Luciani, in Chačka, in Valjevo? Tens of thousands of people work, more and more salaries. No, it's important here to hit Serbia to bring down Alexander Vukic. Marinika Tepic to love my Serbia and lead me to Serbia? Dragan Gilas, while gaining 619m euros, left 500,000 people out of work. And yet again, the matter is imposed: Woe! We have heard it a hundred times. We need to hear that another 100,000 times, because it's too serious. These are the people who offer to be an alternative to Alexander Vukic. So it's not a joke, it's not a reality, it's the names and last names of people who are offered to be an alternative to the existing government, where you know absolutely everything. We know the way of Serbia. We have clear economic progress. We have never a higher reputation in the world. We have economic development. We're dealing with problems. There are enemies who, you have enemies, conditionally said, are all arming themselves, as you can see, but as someone out there is armed, it is appropriate for them to be weaker and therefore they are hitting on our Dedicated Industry, because it's just like someone else to arm themselves and to weaken us militaryly. That's why they hit the Purpose Industry. That's why the marines are blocking those Bulgarian companies that have the same program as our companies. Ah, about their emotions about workers, so it's too much to talk about. Now they'd like to come back and start all over again. There are, you know, we're against Europe, we're against Europe, we're this, we're, you know, we're gonna make a deal, but we're just gonna take down the Wolf. What are you gonna do about it? The expert yesterday, banging Serbia's flag on the door of parliament, and the next day he comes in and holds a press conference. His colleague came there to sign up for travel expenses and hold a conference. He heard someone call someone on the phone when he was arrested. These are the people who need to lead Serbia. These are people who need to be an alternative. Gentlemen, Bosko Obradovic did not win in his village of Vranići in Cačka. He won three times less votes than Alexander Vukic in his village in the presidential elections. Well, when you're a hoodlum, first bring your country's legitimacy, then head to Belgrade. He couldn't win in his village. You know what? I guess it's because they know him best there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66644	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66645	Dear Vice-President, this Law on the financing of political activities, as we have said, we are promoting electoral conditions and therefore I support the government's position on the amendments, so that they are equal for all participants of the electoral process, but not to change election rules, but to remain in 2008 and 2012. Dear Representatives, dear minister, here is a very interesting question how are we and Serbian citizens to protect ourselves from funding political activities when it comes to placing daily lies and very dangerous to the people and the state by the Alliance for Serbia leaders? It is a very important thing, how much funding political activities participates in this and how to find a way to stop it. Here's the latest example. The Perjanica Dragana Djilas, otherwise for Europe Dragana Djilas, is represented, by you who do not know, in Europe, and is only missing in front of the names and last names, the nobleman, the baron, as he wills, Marinika Tepic, otherwise known as "the pigeon flyer", and otherwise the electric rabbit Dragan Gilas, because at his moment she jumps as the electric rabbit of Dragan Gilas, called "jiki Mafia", daily, without any shame, repeats lies about the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the state of Serbia and its state bodies, as well as about individual members of the government and national MPs. In addition, she said, I will now quote that the citizens of Serbia, and you, honourable MPs, see brutal lies. As she said, I quote - the dry truth is what I said last month and a half, pointing to the connection between Slobodan Tesic, a arms dealer, and the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic. She offers, says, her tabloid "Today" Blatoid, a US note, which was handed to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic in October. It's a finished quote. And eloquently cried out, quoting, what shall we do now? It's a finished quote. Dear citizens, such a disgusting lie was uttered by Marinika Tepic, in the people known as "the pigeon flyer", otherwise the electric rabbit of Dragan Djilas. It is true that the foreign ministry has thus made an official statement saying, "It is not true that the United States has ever sent a note or handed it to Minister Dacic or to any other foreign minister, Slobodan Tesic," a quote concluded. I'm asking a new question - what do we do now, Marinika Tepic? After this, Marinika Tepic, the electric rabbit of Dragan Gilas, had she had at least a little bit, as the people would have said, the morals of both civil and patriotic education, and he was gone, would have come here to this high house, apologized to the citizens of Serbia, the President of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic, Ivica Dacic, the honourable MPs and Slobodan Tesic for the brutal lies she had told. Of course she won't, because she's an electric rabbit for Dragan Gilas, because he thinks so too. Dear Minister Dejanovic, in order to protect the financing or non-financing of those political activities associated with drug dealers of certain opposition party leaders, such as Bosko Obradovic, called in the people "lupetiv", whose godfather Mladen Novakovic is called "tocilo", has been arrested with 77 kg of heroin, that in some ways we do not finance and that we see how much funding of political activities they have in order to protect our children in the future and provide them with a healthy life and ambience. How can we protect ourselves without funding political activities from the connection between Dragan Gilas, Europe's Dragan Gilas, and his brother-in-law, arrested with two kilos of cocaine? And it is very interesting now to ask a question for certain state authorities -- what does Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic have to do with drug mobs and drug dealers? That is why Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas, for Europe Dragan Djilas, attack the police daily, Mr Zebic, Minister Stefanovic and individual national militias. They've been assigned. From who? Well, it's known, from the west, that they're destroying state institutions. They did it in 1999, same people, same people, same people, same employers. Yesterday, in Brussels, what did they say about their homeland? Shame on them. It wouldn't say the greatest enemy of the state. I am speaking to you, the respected citizens of Serbia -- please be informed of what they said about their country. They don't care about that. They appear from abroad every day, one or the other, yesterday, you saw where they spit on their country by calling it the ugliest names. Only one who doesn't love his country can go abroad and mud her, and I will now be my common peasant from my hometown, it's called people's traitors. That's what science says and politics says. He's got a name and a last name. But that's not the first time I've told them. They, the very ones and their political counterparts, during the bombing of our country in 1999, went abroad to persuade our country to bomb. Let them read the German literature, a statement by Hullciger, who was an adviser to Yosak Fisher, so let him tell who he was taking to the TV duels to persuade our country to bomb. Same people, same political option. What to say about Vuk Jeremic, a member and says he is not, and we have found that he is and the world has established, an international gang of thieves and frauds. Those two of his deputies were arrested and convicted in the United States, and his employer, Cosic, is not saying he went to testify to them in the United States. That's what Vuk Jeremic does, otherwise called by Svetislav Basara "guzijan". He praises, you saw the day before yesterday, Albin Kurti, that he's good, that he's stable, that he's smart, that he's Albin Kurti. It is not surprising to me, the honourable MPs, and I believe most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because both Vuk Jeremic and Aljbin Kurti are working on the same task - the breaking of Serbia. That's what I've talked about several times and quoted his statements in this high house. But, to you, respected citizens of Serbia, I recommend you remember the date I now pronounce - 27. Seven. In 2010, it was one of the largest dates for so-called the state of Kosovo. On that day, the Shiparians received a legal argument to push their so-called. independence to the end. And you know who gave them that? It's Wolf Jeremy. That's why Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic on that date and is particularly grateful to him that day, as you saw, because the Shipage considers him the most important paper in the hands of the so-called so-called. An independent Kosovo. You, Mr. Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, and in Europe, Dragan Gilas, you can't do anything to the citizens of Serbia, because they read you a long time ago. You have entered politics, Mr. Gilas, in Europe called Dragan Gilas, as an ordinary gologous, and now you are a citizen of the Republic of Serbia with 619m euros. Because citizens know best, I know this will drive them crazy now when I say that the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is a great Serbian neimara, a great Serbian patriot, a great Serbian statesman and a great Serbian reformer. I know how you're looking at this transmission from the office and going crazy, under quotes, and you're still going and muddling your country, trampling its symbols, the greatest sanctity -- the flag, and I'm a professor of historical science, especially psychology, and I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, that anyone has done it in this country since the 6th century to today. We will continue and our president will continue to work and build and promote his country's reputation worldwide, such as yesterday in Greece. The people and the country will surely reward him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66646	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66647	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to reach out and support the discussions of speakers Krsta Janjusevic and Professor Atlagic. I would say the following, since they left parliament and decided to boycott parliament's work and regular elections by the yellow company, led by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic, Bastic, Jovo Bakic, academic Teodorovic, have been sent serious threats that will be made to the president of the Republic of Aleksandra Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, members and supporters of SNS, and in terms of murders, rape, hanging, we will chase them on the streets, the corpses of Sava and Danube will swim. No one has publicly fenced and condemned such messages on such messages. First, apart from some newspapers, the rest were reserved, as were journalists' associations, primarily NUNS. Second, the D.A.'s office whose business did nothing about it. So, the other doctors are the psychiatrists, where I belong, who would make my legal commitment, and you, Professor Djukić Dejanovic, agree with me, that if someone is jeopardizing their own life in terms of suicide or their actions endangering other people's lives, and what I have stated is nothing but endangering other people's lives, it is necessary to say the measures of forced treatment, or forced hospitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66648	I thank my colleague, Rancic. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic has the word. Here's a colleague of Jovanovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66649	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is a clear view of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to supporting a set of laws we are holding. There is no need to comment again on what our authorised representative pointed out when it comes to the affirmativeity of all these bill proposals that we are still holding today. I just want to rely on something that the esteemed colleague Atlagic has fully observed and assessed, and this is a continuous attempt to devalue everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, an attempt to devalue something that cannot in any case be doubted, which is the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the results of its work and, of course, the continuity of the fabrication of lies, the fabrication of untruths, fictions, the creation of affairs, plots, attempts to discredit, everything we have witnessed for a long, long time. What has he managed to achieve part of the opposition of the Republic of Serbia? He's achieved something that we all see, which is that they've managed to establish a complete continuity in the fabrication of falseness. What Marinika Tepic did was the highlight of bringing out the untrues in terms of disinformation that the foreign minister and the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, was given some kind of note. The note is not only not delivered, but there is not even the idea that such a note can appear in international legal traffic. As far as the Vasenar arrangement is concerned, it is the only thing that is not true with an attempt to oil itself or to qualify in one extremely ugly way for the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Foreign Ministry, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic and, ultimately, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. What is perfectly clear to the citizens now, it is clear that that part of the opposition has been replaced by the street, that democratic dialogue and democratic procedure have replaced with violence, that everything that was to be done here and that as MPs are obliged to work here and to join all the sessions of this Parliament and participate in the debate, that they have decided to do so in a different way, which is to promote destruction, to promote all that is at the limits of illegal action with the elements of the crime, I am even convinced that there are also elements of a criminal act. Once again, I call on the institutions, and I strongly urge those parts of the judiciary that are legally competent to respond, which are the prosecutions responsible, to process all those who have been recognised as violence by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of which are mandatory for the prosecution to assess whether there are signs of a criminal offence or not. I think it's high time the D.A.'s office gave an assessment of whether there are elements to the crime or not. The SPS parliamentary group will be consistent in insisting on respecting the law and legality, insisting on supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia in a work that is exclusively in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect only better from the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is better than before the period of 2012 there is no doubt. Therefore, this support is not a rhetorical nature, it is not a populist nature, it is a sincere support for the Socialists and will always be as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66650	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here's a colleague of Despotovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66651	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities of the SRS shall apply to Article 1 of the existing Article 2 of paragraph 1. The bill changes and reads – The group of citizens is a form of voter association for joint participation in the elections that regulate their relations by a contract that is certified under the law governing the certification of signatures, with the reason that the definition of the group of citizens is more precise. We see that this bill has outlined something that can never be realized, which is that public officials do not put public resources in their position and for their promotion. Termin, the term "public official" is a very broad term, giving the parties in power a huge advantage in an unequal game of the electoral process. So far, our practice tells us that there are various marifets and abuses by those who are in power to manipulate potential voters and discipline them, and in particular to motivate them with various material stimuli such as coffee, sugar, oil, umbrellas, etc., while the most represented form is supplying and giving money, so on. votes, as Mr. Mircic said, in a subscription. All that the Democrats have introduced through NGOs into the electoral process is you and how you have accepted and not only accepted, but you have perfected, for example, the presence of so-called presence. The Bulgarian train where Milo Djukanovic perfected it. All that you are proposing now by listening to the blindly worn out European bureaucrats, disrespecting their own state and meeting with a part of them of an acceptable opposition past the National Assembly is a slap to democracy, i.e. Serbia. With this unspeakable implementation of European orders, such a bill will not do any good, and the problems related to the electoral process will continue to deepen and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66652	I thank my colleague Despotovic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic has the word. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66653	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill we are discussing today in particular is primarily being adopted to improve the electoral process, and it fully defines the notion of an election campaign that concerns the period as the bill itself says, which lasts from the day of the elections to the day of the final results being announced. Of course, it covers activities of political entities such as working with voters and membership, organising and holding meetings, distribution of advertising material, media and various other services, conducting training and other activities related to the election campaign. The essence of the proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Finance on the government's work group initiative is seen in the ban on the use of funds from the budget, from the republic or local budgets for the needs of the election campaign. It is important to explain what this means on specific examples. Therefore, not to the director of a public undertaking or any other functionator in a party meeting by a service car, shall not print advertising election material on the cost of the state or, if one party is able to use the premises of a state authority, this must be made possible equally to all other parties, or to political parties. We have another example here. This is an example of the mayor of Sapca Zelenovic, who is back in Brussels and is once again muddying his country in the European Parliament and that position and is using the situation to promote his own or his own party. Now the question is raised here – is it okay for Serbia to pay the way for a man who will speak against it, who will muddle both Serbia and its citizens and is it okay for Serbian citizens, for example, to bear those costs? So, in a clear way, this bill sets out the use of public resources with the aim of, of course, greater transparency that will ultimately improve the electoral process. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates that indeed electoral conditions are equal for all, in order to ultimately establish the electoral will of citizens in a proper manner and in order for it to be established realistically. This will allow all political entities, first and foremost, to participate in the elections on equal terms, which is what we stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66654	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. According to the amendment, MP Dragana Barisic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66655	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would refer to the government's position and agree that this amendment is being rejected, but I would also ask one question that I am being referred to by the citizens of Kruševec today. They say that in their mailboxes in the previous days, flyers are inserted on high-quality fat paper, where drink – boycott. That's probably what those in the Alliance for Serbia do, who probably don't have the guts to show up at the door and say their own program that doesn't have or say their own attitudes, but, well, by hiding in boxes, probably at some deaf age. She asked another question, since one so-called. The leader of my district, Mr Miroslav Aleksic, has very often scheduled meetings at the time of the National Assembly meeting, the press conference, parliament continues to boycott, but it neatly raises the costs of coming to the same, which I have proof of. At the previous session, that is, his conference, in 5.12.2019, Mr. Aleksic signed an orderly signing, took the travel expenses, did not set foot in this hall. I would ask the question -- is that it's okay, that the man who allegedly represents the citizens of Triestenik, and I don't know who voted him, because I don't know who's on any of the lists anymore, then there was some URS, so there was some movement, now he sold the party to Jeremic, whether he was still in that party or now some new movement was founded. Speaking of Mr. Alexic, I'd like to ask you something else. By 2016, this gentleman was the president of the municipality of Trstenik, unfortunately for all Triestelics, because he had eaten up the municipality and led to the brink of destruction. Mr. Aleksic, at a time when he was head of the seat of the president of the municipality of Trstenik, received more salaries. That's what I was talking about at one of the previous sessions, but it's worth reminding our citizens, because they forget. So, as a member of the Supervisory Board 40,258 dinars, then a member of the Management Board of the Public Enterprise National Park “Kopalnik” 17.355. Otherwise, he was also director of the Planning and Construction Directorate 72,000. There's one more thing I'd like to add, since he often deals with diplomats, we still haven't figured out what he's done and where. He's supposed to be a graduate economist, but we don't know where he got that calling. We all have degrees and we know where we studied and ended up in some record deadlines, but where did Mr. Alexic study? I would also remind him that he had just invented the position of director of the Public Communal Enterprise in Počekovina, and the gentleman received two votes in the 2016 elections in the local community. So they didn't vote even his most born. So it means no box guards, Malten. So much for this gentleman, but it's worth reminding too that while he was president of the municipality, as director of the National Employment Service, he set up his father-in-law, so I would ask him, is that correct? He also founded the NGO of the Fund for the Promotion of Human Resources and through this organization, I don't know how many millions, tens of millions have been spent, but there's no telling where that money went, because during the winter months some land treatment was reportedly done, grass was cut. I don't know where the grass is in January, when it's mostly snow-covered. One more thing, this gentleman often complains about the media. Well, his wife is still working on local cane TV today, and I don't see that she's in any danger, even recently with my colleagues, I've been visiting there. She's running the program and she's doing her job neatly. Then I don't know what he's talking about and what media darkness and everything. I'd like to remind you one more time and ask why the gentleman is signing, taking fees and travel expenses, and he hasn't been in this room in 300 days? There's one more thing to add when I'm at Mr. Alexic's is that he's prone to lies. You also remember when he was seeing a drone, just a moment to document that, the drone he bought in "Tempa," and he said he was supposed to be followed by the BIA, that the drone was on the body, and then he wrote that he was just joking. Wait, what kind of man is he kidding around with some serious stuff? I really think that the citizens of this time have seen what kind of leader is supposed to be and what kind of fraud, so these conferences he's scheduled in the lobby just to raise travel costs. He'd be better off missing it and doing what the citizens chose him to do, but apparently his interest was only to increase his property map which, compared to some period before performing all these functions, was far, far less than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66656	Thank you, colleague Barisic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66657	Given the width of the subject, I'm going to start with two questions or findings. Even so, intended for Minister Ruzic. I thought we were gonna keep hanging out yesterday. After those discussions about the height of wages and pensions, some people appeared, so let's say they asked us to ask Minister Ruzic, we can also tell Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, on what basis, and how is it calculated that Serbs from Obilić living in other parts of Serbia get only 8,500 dinars on behalf of the minimum wagers? It's really information that makes a man's skin hard. From Vranja they also called to ask – does the minister know that local authorities in Vranja have increased 300%? I guess the minister will answer. Now, we've heard all sorts of comments here that don't have much to do with this bill proposal, but it's still a pre-election campaign in some way, so there's a lot to be said here. Here, several fellow MPs spoke about what Marinika Tepic lied about. I'll remind you that the first lie of Marinika Tepic was that Dr. Vojislav Seselj was a war criminal and you gentlemen, kept silent. So it would be good if you could even up some of the arches. Of course, I'm not defending Marina Tepic in any way, so don't get me wrong, she's the most immoral thing that can be in the National Assembly. Last night my neighbor showed me the contents of the package, and by the way, she's not going to vote for whoever brought her the package, but she had to take it, says she's going to do it to the other neighbor, because she's getting pluses, minuses how many packages she's shared, and you've strengthened, advanced. Two liters of oil, two kilos of flour, one bag of palents, a long-term milk liter, one bag of macaroni, a kilo of rice, two hundred grams of coffee and two kilos of sugar. It's in line with this law you're talking about here, fairy tales. You act like a dear colleague here while you talk about something that bothers you like half a fish, half a girl. Half opposition, half power. If you're the government, then don't complain that someone's a thief, that someone stole this or that, but you're asking the authorities to react, arrest more criminals and relieve the country of such problems. Here they tried, also some colleagues, to caricate problems with migrants. The media hides the fact that in some parts of Serbia, there are really serious problems with migrants, that the state is not responding, especially problems are expressed in Shida, Somboro and Apatino. Be angry, dear colleagues, when we tell you that you are doing all of this on the orders of the European Commission, which are such worn out officials there, and that is true and simplest for you to take, especially these colleagues who read written speeches, to review their archives, to see how you used to say it. True, on a warrant from the West, they began to urge this pro-European opposition to announce a boycott, you were very ghastly, you said -- let's, boycott, what do we care, so when they realized it, and started the boycott, you were insolent again. Now, when those of the EU told you that you couldn't do it exactly, that you had to create a vision of some democracy, because they wanted their European opposition to sit in parliament, then you started to whine, to whine, to invite them back, to thank everyone who comes back, to tear up their parliamentary groups, to get some part of it here. Well, then Tatiana Macura becomes Tanya, in public communication. So you're all listening to what the EU orders you to do. In the next amendment, I continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66658	Thank you, colleague Radeta. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66659	Thank you, Chairman. You know how, there's a big difference between a warrant or an order or a directive on the one hand and a recommendation on the other. So it won't be true that it's the SNS or the government in Serbia or the ruling majority or whatever it is, that it meets some directives blindly, that it's following some orders and everyone knows it, or even one who says something like that. So here are the recommendations, I underline, the recommendations of the OSCE, ODIR and other international organisations, which the working group for improving electoral conditions accepts, for the simple reason that when someone recommends something, this other one considers it, and if he finds it appropriate, accepts some of it. There is a partnership here, with the same task, with the same goal and the very word of recommendation speaks enough of the difference that I spoke of earlier. The truth is that we will support recommendations, some of the recommendations, the OSCE and the ODIR, which we have included in the Bill on Amendments and Law Supplements... (National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out of place. () As much as a speaker known for his education has tried to distract me as I speak, he will not go after his hand. I don't just know why he's nervous, probably because of a public opinion survey, which lately doesn't give a lot of reasons for the satisfaction of a talker who keeps throwing it away. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out of place. ) But there is one problem, the chairman, that anxiety has been observed in the last few days, and there has been an increased engagement of this speaker, who throws it all the time. (National MP Nemanja Sarovic throws out of place. ) I don't want to give him a chance to replicate, but what I would like to tell him, if he is active, as he has been here in parliament for the past few days, will be so much worse. So it's better that he doesn't throw both better and not be active, because he's the last person, the chairman, who can influence the rise of his party's ratings. So, when it comes to going back to the agenda, this is the draft law on amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities. So, yes, we found certain shortcomings. These shortcomings are precisely due to a bad law that has not passed by the SNS, but brought by some other parties, some other ruling majority have passed electoral laws that we have not changed. The question now arises, how did these electoral conditions once fit the DS, some other parties that are now under the control of Dragan Gilas and this Alliance for Serbia, and are not responding to them today? We of the SNS were opposition at a time when these election laws were passed. We agreed to go to elections under such conditions, which were not brilliant despite the media blockade, despite censorship, despite the media darkness. I'll remind you that while the SNS was an opposition, there was no single media, we were absolutely forbidden to do so. The mainstream media, the media that was then widely used by DS and all other DS factions, we went to those elections, we won those elections, we didn't complain, we didn't complain about the lack of freedom, etc. Now I want these changes to provide the most transparent conditions, the best possible conditions for the election campaign to come. We call on everyone to get involved in this campaign, we will provide fair and fair conditions unlike some others who, when they were in power, did not provide fair or fair elections. Now we shall have them, and we shall call for them all to be included in it, and then according to that people, whom the captives, both of them. I know that public opinion research does not give some a chance for joy in this regard, but some of them have decided to come out despite these poor prognosis of public opinion researchers, some others have seen things, seen that they have no chance of having either a serious or a decent political result in this regard, and so they have declared a boycott. That is the only reason why there are no MPs from Gilas, Bosko Obradovic and others here today, and why they declare the boycott as the pre-prepared alibi for the electoral debacle that awaits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66660	Thank you, colleague Markovic. My colleague Radeta, would you like a replica of my colleague Markovic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66661	This is 21 times, I've been counting, I've been putting up cartoons, in the last three days that the MPs admit that since they've been in power, all elections have been irregular and that the next one will provide regular ones. But what do Tanja Fajon and Bilchik, who is a permanent rapporteur of the European Parliament in Serbia, say? They are talking, among other things, about the table given by the task and the implementation of the table, which measures the state of concrete implementation of the commitments undertaken, they say. Then they say what they ended up doing on a warrant, these are the laws we're talking about right now, they call them three key laws, so they improve supervision, forming a supervisory board, etc. But now there's something they're preparing for you, which is going to be very bad, you know. He says, however, there is not much time left before the election campaign to improve conditions by applying all obligations, beware of obligations, accept obligations, such as changes and the addition of three laws, by adopting a new public service regulation, by creating a new supervisory body, by appointing three plus one in REM. We would therefore propose to consider the timeframe for elections with full respect for the law and the Constitution, etc. So you're already threatened to meet the conditions of those who demand you move the election, which means that if you still agree to that, that means you're going to have to agree to an emergency in the country, because there's no other way to postpone the election. You're going to jump now and say that's not true. You jumped even when we said that Bosko Obradovic and his cousin had not crossed the censorship, that Vukic had succumbed to the pressures of Scott, so he introduced him to parliament, you wanted to take our eyes out. Not long after that, and now constantly, you are the ones who repeat that they entered parliament and did not have the required number of votes. So control what you used to say or if you won't do it again, at least avoid talking about it. So you get orders from the EU, you meet the directives, and you don't care about the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66662	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66663	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm glad she's a previous speaker, admitting that it's not true that it's warrants, orders, or as she's already characterized, but that it's about recommendations. So what's true, the truth is that certain specific recommendations for improving election conditions have been accepted, so what are the consequences of me telling you about certain shortcomings. We have seen certain shortcomings in the existing, to tell the laws, which we have not passed, which are inherited. So, we've seen some shortcomings, we're correcting that, and that's just one part of the total change, let's say, election conditions, improvements in electoral conditions, and the possibility that no one in any place can say anything, nor that there's any problem with transparency and so on. We will have indeed the most modern and best possible standards when it comes to legality, when it comes to electoral conditions, fair electoral conditions, and so on. When it comes to this, let me tell the opposition, that other part of the opposition that will accept it or not accept that it participates in the elections or ask for a delay and so on, so most sincerely I tell you, I don't burden myself much with what they're looking for, what they resent, what they announce, what they say in that sense. They first asked to settle the voter lists. The voter lists are set. Absolutely no one alive has any objection when it comes to the up-to-date voter list, we have the fastest possible voter list, and then they very quickly and gave up on the topic. None of them will say they're unscheduled voters' lists, so they got caught up in it, let's see the financing of political activities, and then they went over the subject. Then the main thing was, let's somehow find a way to limit the presence and appearance of Alexander Wolfich in the media. It's now their main, how to find a way that there's no Alexander Vukic in the campaign and this last crazy thing they've designed, and that's how they make some kind of technical government, some kind of transitional government, I don't know, some nebulosis is at stake. That's what they're getting at right now. They find some examples of northern Macedonia, I don't know, Montenegro and so on. It is a completely unserious proposal, would not waste time and of course no one would agree to such an adjudication, nebulosis, to make some transitional government, so that Bosko Obradovic would be a minister or commissioner or so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66664	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66665	Maybe that's what it is for you, so if they do, don't throw too much forward, there's a lot of things you've been saying there won't be, so there was. He says a colleague is not burdened by what those from the EU say and I don't know. I believe, but there is someone who is burdened and doesn't depend on much of it or on you, but on who they're burdening and who they're burdening. What did you do? You here have humiliated the state in an incredible way, by accepting that some set of monsters, you call it a national convention, and I can say freely a set of monsters, because there was Sonja Licht, because there was what was organized by Mirdita, because there was that Antonijevic who boasted that he was one of the lawmakers on the basis of which Kostunica's authority had let out of the prison of 1,300 shears, including this Albin Kurti. You brought such a group of monsters into the National Assembly and then the President of the State, the Prime Minister, humiliated themselves to such an extent as to allow them to question them, to answer, or to them, in front of Kukan and that Frankenstein, what's his name. So, you don't know that's your problem, you as MPs don't even know what your next move will be, or what will be at the next session, what you should defend, what to attack. So, don't get too worked up, we need to remind you that some things you said a few months ago. Do you remember how much you cared that these so-called pro-European opposition would not participate in the work of parliament? You've also spoken heartily, also bitterly, you don't care who wants to sit down, who doesn't have to. Well, when the lice roll starts, you have to get those pro-Europeans back to the National Assembly, then you start singing, then -- come with us here, let's go to the Faculty of Political Sciences, let's go with Milan Antonijevic, let's go with this, what's called Frankenstein, let's go wherever you want. Well, you won't all, well, let's get some of this MP group out of here, let's get some of this, come on, dear Europeans. Here, we managed to get five of these pro-Europeans back. Well, look what you're doing, don't be so open.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66666	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66667	Thank you, Chairman. Says the previous speaker that we didn't care, quote what she said – I don't care what the opposition do. In that sense, I'd say we don't care what the representatives of that part of the opposition do. So, to be honest, we don't care what Zoran Zivkovic does, we don't care what those DS do, we don't care what they do, what they do under the control of Gilas, Bosko Obradovic, Jeremic, although it's hard to figure out who in these parliamentary groups, who represents who, that's a really complicated situation, but we don't do that much. There have been some problems on that side, about the work of the Assembly in the sense that we do not unite the debate or that we do not combine the agenda points, put on the agenda reports of independent institutions, the budget to be separated and so on. We've made recommendations to you, I'm stressing again, recommendations, and we've seen and we've fulfilled all these recommendations in that sense. The fact that they have not adequately responded to this gesture has continued to boycott the work of the National Assembly and has shown how much they care and that the National Assembly, as much as they care about the citizens of Serbia, is their problem, we still don't care what they do and what they do, apart from reacting to their monstrous lies, the fabrication of the affair, the inventions that each day lately construct and place both against Alexander Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic and all SNS officials. Yeah, that's what we're responding to, of course. Yes, we're proving that it's lies and factory affairs, fiction and we're doing very well. In every way we demascate them and demonstrate that policy they have aimed only at hating Alexander Vukic, but what we care about their, let's say, policy moves whether they come to a session of the National Assembly or not to attend a session of the National Assembly, they will ultimately answer to the citizens for it. Citizens sent them to parliament, they chose to boycott the parliament, not to represent the interests of the very citizens who chose them, and they will bear that price for what they do, we still don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66668	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66669	Since the beginning of this call, everyone can review transcripts, the beginning of every session of SRS MPs who is an authorised representative has begun with remarks that you cannot combine 20, 30, 15 points into one item of the agenda, that you are uniting grandmothers and frogs, that it is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure, that you cannot put everything in an emergency procedure, that you cannot schedule a session to stay just for two days or less than that to write amendments, that it is inappropriate to write thousands of amendments, hundreds of hundreds of amendments, so that the government spends the time that the Rules of Procedure are limited to amendments. We were all saying, your answer on that side was, just tell me we have our "Strategic Ipsos", we have our factor plus they'll announce that you're nowhere near the censorship, you'll never see the National Assembly again, we'll do this, we'll do that. You didn't want to hear you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. It couldn't have gotten close to your senses. And Fleckenstein came, and Kukan came, and you did a good job, because they said, let's go one by one. I watched your shame from above when you walked in one in four eyes talking. Well, instead of waiting in the MP offices to call you, you as poor people stand outside the door and as this one comes out, this one runs faster. It made me cry when I saw how pathetic it all looked. That you personally humiliate yourself, we don't care, but you humiliate the state institutions, you humiliate the National Assembly. You can't say now that any of this isn't true. If we've claimed for three years, bring in a new Rules of Procedure, you can't write amendments like this, you can't do everything at any time. It can't unite dots, it has nothing to do with each other. That's what we were saying. You never once accepted our proposal not to. And when your very good Europeans came, your employers, then you're very well-covered with your ears, you can do anything but don't beat us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66670	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66671	The reform of the electoral system in Serbia is necessary, but what you have proposed through these laws is not like reform at all. You see the position of the opposition is somewhat more comfortable than yours. You may personally share an opinion like us, however, no one has forbidden them. Another question would be that they are forbidden to come to parliament, perhaps then they would tell me that you have no right to do so. But one of my colleagues every morning and now I'm following it, every morning saying that it's the day in a row how they don't come? Now that there are no days of sitting, then I'm not sure, because it's not my topic of interest, which is why you're working here, because one of you is asking you to do it, or try to get them back. It is impossible to implement a reform if the ruling party does the following: a MP elected from a single list and after the formation of a government or government, the list remains in opposition and at the moment that list has the right to replace and the MP takes an oath from a party that is in opposition and sits in the hands of the authorities. Well, you didn't need to do that at all. It's just that it's that MP who would be 126, no reform while you're ready to do something like that. Everyone has the right and freedom to join the party he wants, but in an election campaign to get on the party list, it's decided by party authorities, then there's nothing controversial about it, but where's morale? Where is the morale of that MP? Where is the morale of the congregation majority who is willing to do so? A team before you needed it, didn't need it in the sense that it was a key 126, etc. As long as you're doing this, you're not honest about reforming the election system. Political activities take place and are realised, first of all, through political parties, not only, of course, there are groups of citizens, consisting of those political parties, consisting of a coalition. And what makes up a little bit about this Article 2 and you say there will be control and financial resources, that there will be control and material goods, and even space, of course, material good, where some meetings can be held if everyone can use it. It's just one makeup that's not effective. They have two ways of funding parties, so public and private. We are in favour, Serbian radicals are pushing for this public funding to be as much as possible. Maybe the citizens of Serbia don't understand that. Then the chosen political figure is no one's debtor, except to account for his citizens, or those who chose him. In any other case, there are some minimum contributions, some minimum contributions for which the person who gave it does not expect to return, anything else if a little more funds were invested requires that it be triple what he invested to return to it. That's why I support some political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66672	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66673	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about amendments to the draft law on the financing of political activities, this law is very clearly defined and precise what we are talking about in this topic. The government of the Republic of Serbia has just formed a Working Group to deal with improving electoral conditions, because we want to improve the electoral process in Serbia, but also the level of democracy. However, there are no election conditions that can enable Bosca Obradovic and those who boycott the work of the National Assembly, not to win the elections, but to cross the censorship of the election that awaits them. I remind you that Bosko Obradovic entered the National Assembly by hanging from the balcony. This weekend he tried to break down, demoralize the National Assembly, and thus enter this institution. A very unusual concept of how to enter institutions. I remind you that his job is to come to the National Assembly and represent the citizens who elected him to this position and cast their votes. So, not only is he not banned, it's his duty to come to work. He doesn't come to work, and then violently at the weekend he tries to break and crash into this institution. Well, nobody's really allowed to do that. There are no such electoral conditions that will allow in this way, without any programmes and policies to be destroyed, by generating the affairs that are placed daily, invented, to gain the trust of the people. The point is that those who created these electoral conditions, those who brought them, now suddenly remembered that these electoral conditions were no good. In fact, it's about looking for excuses, looking for alibis for failure who are aware that they are expected in the next election. And, in fact, it's no longer about demands, it's about inventions that try to, as one at a time, meet that they're generating daily to actually challenge this whole election process and find an excuse for their own failure in the election. I repeat that these amendments to the law cannot guarantee anyone victory in the elections, but they can provide a more advanced and better election process with the electoral lists that we have updated, with other procedures that we have improved. But the opposition wants power without a choice. They want someone on the street to declare them ministers, to shout that they are the ones who need to decide something, but it is the citizens who make decisions and the court about each of us, about the work of each of us, that it is the citizens who said they wanted new factories, new roads, that they want bigger salaries and pensions and better living standards, and they are the ones who put the opposition on the margins of political life, that will show in any subsequent election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66674	Thank you. National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Risitičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment asking that the funds that political parties or electoral lists receive cannot be spent on political marketing in media that do not have a seat on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This means this: that foreign television cannot make political marketing of political parties to the electoral lists in our country because it would be an illicit influence of a foreign factor through foreign television on political life in our country. You all know, and yesterday one MP asked that "N1" television can expand its activities on the territory of all Serbia. We don't mind, but provided it registers in Serbia. It is impossible to get the national frequency they are looking for for "N1" and "New S" television, and to be registered in Luxenburg, it is not possible. Also, it is not possible for Serbia, for example, to participate in political life in Albania, let's say that some of our drug dealer, perhaps Dabovic, perhaps Saric, Tocilo, is financed by the programme director and media in Albania by drug money. You all know that Yugoslavia Ćosic got the money, program director "N1" TV, foreign Luxembourg TV, that he got the money... Yeah, that's the Dabovic, he's the one... So, that Djilasov Šurak, that Yugoslavia Ćosic received money from Baškam Ulaj, the leader of the tropoic Albanian mafia, otherwise, of the drug lords, who is being chased by the UN in their report on drug dealing and money laundering. Now, imagine whether we would be allowed in Albania, to have our drug dealer finance their programme director and their media and to have pre-election messages broadcast in Albania against the Albanian government, Albanian parties and so on? Would Skopje allow that? Would that allow Sarajevo? Would that allow Luxembourg, for example? So, the N1 TV and Nova S, which are lined up on the first and second cable channels, where SBB, Gilas and Solak, are making a media landscape, where they take away their work on black bread from domestic media, because they take out commercials in Serbian, and they don't pay taxes, because they're, for God's sake, registered in Luxembourg, where they don't broadcast the program, and here they re-emitting it, so as, ma'am, the re-evaluation can only be like if there's vaccinations. So re-emission can be done only if there are broadcasts in Luxembourg, and there's a Luxembourg regulator saying it's gone and that they're just fictitiously registered there, but they're basically foreign media, which is neither PIB nor here, there's nothing. They use Serbian commercials, they take bread on our registered media. And, now, imagine, we let them influence their political life by broadcasting ads from the state's funds and instead of winding up in our media, which pay the state's tax, and money goes to commercials, say, N1 TV and Nova S, which, apart from broadcasting ads, will broadcast political emissions and through them political propaganda not only against ruling parties, but also against all parties that protect the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia. We don't think that's allowed and that we have to restrict the right of foreign media to influence political life in the election campaign. You all know what's going on with Trump. There, a small doubt turned into a huge problem whether the Russians were using the Internet to influence the election opportunities in America. Why would they let me call American television, registered in Luxembourg, rudely interfere with political life and election campaigns during elections in the state of Serbia. We don't think that's allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66676	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66677	Thank you, Chairman. As we heard from counterpart Risticic, this amendment suggested adding one position to a member who would define a ban on political entities to use foreign media services for political advertising renting dates during the election campaign, i.e. media that have no headquarters and are not registered in the Republic of Serbia. There are a lot of serious reasons for entering this attitude that I think the government should respect. First of all, no one has the right to allow one-off budget funds to be used to finance pre-election activities during the campaign to be poured into the media that are not registered in the Republic of Serbia, which are also not our taxpayers. Our citizens as the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia do not deserve that the money they have earned and that separates into the budget goes to someone who is not the taxpayer of our country. We have no right, even less of any obligation to allow televisions, such as N1, Nova S and other cross-border channels, to work beyond all applicable laws as they are too silently allowed. In its opinion, the amendment submitted that it does not accept the amendment because the amendment unnecessarily recognises the draft law, although there is no provision in the law that at least a little reference would be made to the ban on political entities to use foreign media services during the campaign, i.e. for political advertising. media that have no headquarters in the Republic of Serbia and thus prevents money spilling out of the state of Serbia. When I'm saying all this, I don't think for a moment about the shameful editorial policies of these media, because at this point and on this point, they're not even within my focus at all. They absolutely do not touch me, but I am touched by the fact that if our amendment is not accepted, the funds that would have to end up in the Republic of Serbia's budget through various taxes and other obligations, as is the case with the media registered with us, in the case of these channels, will go illegally outside the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66678	Thank you. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say that I support the previous amendment and that I would truly be shocked if the Government of the Republic of Serbia would not accept that amendment and if the Government of the Republic of Serbia were to continue to be able to broadcast a programme in Serbia to be registered in Luxembourg, not to pay taxes and thus to practically make all citizens of Serbia who pay taxes practically crazy. The fact that I'm seven years old with SNS allows something like that, it's amazing to me, but let's see if this robbery ends. I really agree with those who spoke earlier. It's a huge robbery, but let's see if your government and your regime will continue to allow individuals to rob Serbia and see what it's allowed to do. You know, there's a list of these taxpayers. Some owe billions. How is it possible for ordinary citizens, who do not pay that quarterly war on immovable property tax, to receive warnings, to threaten private perpetrators for several thousand dinars? How is it possible that someone owes 70 or 80 billion dinars in terms of taxes that he owes for years, that the tax debt is increased without being taken away from them by the FIB. There's an even worse situation here, these people, and they don't have a PIB. They have no obligation to pay anything to the Republic of Serbia, and the regime tolerates it. Now, does that mean that they're part of that regime, or does that mean that your bosses are the same, so that you don't let your bosses from the EU and the West get in the way, I think it's different. The lady who spoke earlier, who said – this law will not change much and will not guarantee anyone victory in the election. I'm absolutely sure this law won't change anything, because whatever the law is, you won't respect it. And previous, or this current law if you had respected many other laws to respect, many abuses that mark your regime would not be, but what is the law for you? Nothing. It's in your hands and the prosecution and the courts, and you're treading the laws as you can think of. Why are laws being passed? You're passing this law because you have to fulfil the obligations you've made towards Tanja Fajon, according to that "frankestein". Of course, I say it ironically, but for Serbia, these people are "frankestein" because they don't do us any good, and they come to blackmail every regime. As they have blackmailed before, so today they blackmail you. A few times Alexander Markovic says – no, they do not order us, they are, he says, recommendations. They're not recommendations, they're obligations. Tanja Fajon clearly tells you that 60% of the commitments you have made have not been fulfilled, that you have fulfilled only 40%. That means you'll have to pass more laws. She says we need to reconsider the election time. Here you can see all your inconsistencies, there you can see that your authority is only characterized by blind obedience, condescending, obedience. That's what honors you. When we Serbian radicals told you here to open a dialogue on all these issues to the controversial, electoral in the National Assembly, to settle within institutions, you were silent. There was no bell at the time to order you to vote, and then it got all over your head. You didn't listen to reason, and now you're going to listen to your Western bosses. You have allowed yourself to humiliate Serbia to take it back 20 years and speak again under the patronage of foreigners to those of the pro-European opposition and to fulfill orders from the West. You're saying they're thieves, they're robbers, they're like this, but none of them are in jail to end up. On the other hand, why are you talking to people like that? You're talking, they're breaking into the Assembly violently. How many criminal charges have you filed? Here, he pledged to show Mr. Markovic the criminal charges he allegedly filed because the yellow thieves, he said, had robbed hundreds of millions of euros only on Vračar municipality. Here, with justification, colleagues say they don't believe. I don't believe it either. If he had any criminal record, he would have brought it in. So that's a lie. You're protecting those yellow thieves. You protect them because they made you, because they funded you, because you share the same ideology, because you share the frame, and most importantly, you share the bosses. Your bosses are the same. Western countries that are the enemies of Serbia are your masters, such as the bosses and the yellow ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66680	The People's MP Dragana Barisic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66681	I answered the word, I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66682	Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66683	Thank you. I would refer to my earlier speech and my colleague, Miroslav Aleksic, who, behold, scheduled a press conference at 13 pm today, then moved to 9:30 pm, and eventually canceled, but regularly signed up again and took travel expenses. So much for this gentleman who daily tries to tell lies and lies about all of us from both the National Assembly and the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic and all those who don't feel the same way about him. But here, you can see, in 12.12.2019, Mr. Miroslav Aleksic signed up neatly and took the travel expenses, which I would like tomorrow, since he scheduled for tomorrow's conference, today's conference, I must stress that too, so let us explain why he's canceling today's conference, and schedules for tomorrow, would you like to sign up tomorrow and take another cost? Otherwise, I'd like him to tell us if he has an apartment in Belgrade where he stays and not travels to his native Trieste? One more thing, I'd like Mr. Alexic to tell us tomorrow at the press conference is it true that while he was president of the Tristenik Municipality that he was an OMV representative and that through his wife and through his brother-in-law of money from municipal enterprises everything went right to the OMV pump? Is this a conflict of interest and did the Anti-Corruption Agency react to this? The gentleman could say that at the conference tomorrow. Then, another thing, Mr. Aleksic, when he was the president of the municipality, approved, allegedly, I would like him to explain to me whether, as the president of the municipality, he approved the award of plastics to his brother-in-law, with counterfeiting that Schurak had children. I would really like him to explain all this, because he likes to go to a press conference very often and talk about everything and everything he understands and doesn't understand. Furthermore, how many "The First Five-year-old" workers did he have at the time of his presidency while on the Supervisory Board was his mother-in-law, while the father-in-law was also in charge of the same factory? Is it true that over 3,500 Triesteans are out of work? I'd like Mr. Jeremiah's errand boy to give an answer to that, too. Then, as president of the municipality of Trstenik, did he have the highest salary of all, Maltena, president in Serbia, and that he had just reduced his salary to reacting to the State Auditing Institution? At the same time, the president of the Kruševac City Assembly was Mr. Gasic, who gave up his fees in favour of young couples getting wedding rings. The same Gasic knew he was calling at every turn. Well, I also want this Mr. Aleksic and all other colleagues from the position and opposition to invite them to come to Kruševac on Sunday 15 December for the opening of works for the Moravia Corridor. At 12 o'clock, it will begin with the work of building this corridor to connect Corridor 10 and Milos Great to the satisfaction of all citizens of our beautiful Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66684	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66685	It is interesting that in addition to the many amendments she has submitted and the SRS, no amendments have been adopted. The government didn't find it appropriate for at least one amendment to adopt or initiate a debate as to why it doesn't adopt it, but in the reasons that it's in one cliché that it's not adopted because it would change the meaning of this law and these changes, as if the government, as if you were the authors, so you're worried that someone will change your ideas. The ideas came from European representatives, from the European Parliament came to you with an idea. You cannot fight alone and bring to that stage of democratic talks between this Serbia and parliamentary debate, but must come from this EU. What are they doing to you? They humiliate you even more. They will not put you together with these, on the other hand, on the other hand, although you are all alike, but you say what you have, and then they will convey to them, and they will hear what they think, and they will pass on to you. The reminders work, for those who are forgetful, so the conflict in Sarajevo essentially began. The international community, i.e. Americans and individual countries of Europe, did not want to develop controversy and talks between Serbs and Muslims and on the third side of the Croats, but they were intermediaries, so they transmitted. They haired what they needed. We here propose that what is regulated by law, when it comes to the use of budget funds, and these are persons who have special security, especially security, that is regulated by law, that it does not appear to be special or special security but regulated by law. You know exactly what it is, but not that there's no hearing, but you can't touch a comma, you can't move a point. You have to do as these conceits from the European Parliament tell you. That's what you do. That's how political and life-scrapers came into existence. When Alexander of Macedonia went on conquests, he did not replace the conquered emperors and kings, but he left them on the throne, but he took away their essential power and they became the sopranos. And you'll, uh, you'll take good steps to become one.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66686	Interesting theory. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66687	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that Article 3. The proposal for a law relating to Agency powers is deleted because we believe that such a law should not be passed. These amendments do not change anything essentially, and the proposed amendments are only for the reasons that foreign mentors asked the regime to do so, not because you realized that something should be changed and that the provisions of this Law on election campaign are not respected by certain political entities and that the Anti-Corruption Agency should sanction it, because so much earlier would this, but also the other proposed laws, have been passed much earlier. So the changes are just because they ask you to do it from the west, not because you want to do it in a whole way. You state that the changes are aimed at preventing possible abuses in the electoral process, and if you really want to do so, everything must be done to prevent the purchase of votes, it is clear what can be done in pre-election campaigns, what is by law, but you have done all sorts of things in campaigns and you will continue to do, from sharing packages with groceries, heating, money, etc. That's what needs to be stopped right now and that kind of corruption has to be stopped. I would also point out that the Agency should respond to different applications, and we have in previous campaigns on such phenomena, on the brutal violation of equality in the pre-election campaign, on the purchase of votes, bribed citizens with different packages shared in the campaign, informed both the public and the agency, but the lack of response. We suspect that even now these changes will change anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66688	Thank you. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the last period we are talking about improving our election conditions of the electoral environment, all to approve all parties, especially the pro-Western opposition, to go to elections. And we, which should, like, now introduce some level of electoral legislation and our conditions, are not able to explain why there is still no choice in the Meroshin municipality. So in local self-government in Meroshina, temporary measures were imposed six months ago, and elections for the local municipality assembly have not been called yet. Why? Instead of three months, it takes six months. Consciously breaking the law, the election didn't call. How is that possible? And now we're talking about improving our electoral process and electoral conditions. What's the problem with the election there? What, it's more practical to break the law, to be the same election as the parliamentary and other local for the other municipalities in Nisawa County? Why is there a violation of the law? So how can we talk here and boast about any promotions on any issue regarding the electoral process, when we are not able to do something that is essential to respect, not to talk about promotion and standards of the European nor do I know which? Minister Ruzic was there in principle debate and had no answer to that question. Mrs Gojkovic, who is due to call those elections, also has no answer to that question. I don't know why we do anything else at all, until we see these laws that we now have how to respect them, and then we'll see, of course, if changes are necessary, that they change, but not by having someone come and serve us a dictatorship from abroad, from the EU or from anywhere else, just coming from the West.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66690	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66691	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, to the draft amending and supplementing law on the financing of political activities, suggested that Article 4 be deleted. Article 4 wants to amend Article 35 of the existing law, and the SRS proposes to delete this bill as well. The reasons for submitting this amendment to the SRS have already been discussed in principle and now in the discussion of the details and I will repeat that it is our view that amendments to the law that have been ordered by foreign mentors have been offered and that nothing fundamental changes have been made. We think that's why this law doesn't have to be passed. When we of the SRS made it clear what this was all about, representatives of the ruling coalition began making an incriminating effort to defend indefensiblely. In addition to that, I'm only going to list some facts. At the beginning of the argument, the promoter, without any introduction, writes directly the following -- the government made a decision on the education of the working group on co-operation with the organisation for European security and co-operation with the OSCE, in the office for democratic initiatives and human rights, in co-ordination and monitoring of the implementation of recommendations to improve the electoral process. The text goes on to say - the working group has prepared the text of an initiative to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of political activities, with a view to strengthening the responsibility of political entities involved in the election, in terms of the use and availability of public resources, as well as the obligation of the Anti-Corruption Agency to sanction political entities that do not respect the provisions of the election law in the campaign. In drawing up the text of the initiative, the working group submitted the text of the initiative to NGOs involved in the electoral process. The final text of the law-amending initiative was made after considering the suggestions of these organisations. This is the proposal I made clear what I should have said. Someone asked the authorities to fill someone's suggestion. All attempts to turn the truth into water, no matter how hard someone tries, in a very incorrect way, to twist it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66692	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66693	Thank you. The attacks of the opposition's actions from the inability to oppose anything from this government, some kind of program or whatever, have actually come down to moaning over electoral conditions. Although the elections were organised under the laws they passed, the point is that part of the opposition really must not go to the polls, because they have no plan, they have no programme, they have lost the citizens' trust when they robbed and destroyed Serbia, and they remember Serbia's citizens very well. The ones who abused and threatened the electoral process are the ones who whine the most. First of all, I mean Nebojsa Zelenovic, whose voters bought votes in the elections, which was proven at the court in Sapac, where their activist admitted in court that he was buying votes for Nebojsa Zelenovic and his party. I note that the honest man is now in front of a court in Šapec for budget abuses for 2015. It is clear from this that Nebojsa Zelenovic spent his budget unintendedly, but was preparing purposely for the purchase of votes both later and the board in 2016. And then this most honorable gentleman went into some other waters, and those waters without returning, which is the defamation and demeaning of his country, and above all, we remember, in Strasbourg, then, in Peca, when he sat under the flag of the self-proclaimed and unrecognized state of Kosovo, and then on the embassies and yesterday in Brussels, where he was taken to the DS premises the other day by Dragan Gilas. And also, on how to come to the rule of this leprechaun, they say, Nebojsa Zelenovic, said he was taught by a bearded uncle, who put him in his laps and explained that he was not coming to power by election, but by street. I hope you don't think it's Santa Claus. It's Dusan Petrovic. Hence, the rampage of Nebojska Zelenovic and his team outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's presidency along the streets of Belgrade and RTS. Of course, the team with Djilas, Jeremic, Obradic and Bastic, primarily with Gilas, who hangs out and poses in the company of drug dealer Boško Obradovic, who, as Gilas, attacks members of the MUP, because he is arrested by the godfather, or whatever, who is also a drug dealer, Bastac, who sees his godfather, puts a bag on his head and destroys the property of Beogradjan and Vuk Jeremic, also who tells Albin Kurti that he is an intellectual, patriot and stable man, and in the end, Nebojsa Zelenović, who draws a target on his chest. So they're pretty much allowed. For them, electoral conditions do not exist, but for them there is an insurmountable obstacle, which is Aleksandar Vukic, who has reborn Serbia, who has restored honor, reputation and dignity in the world and who we can say is the real headquarters and carrier and has proved to everyone that Serbia is an independent and sovereign country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66694	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to insist that funds for political activities must be used by political parties. Let me remind you that we must pay attention to all abuses. I have to remind you of the Bosko Obradovic case. Some other colleagues know that. Bosko "Ljotic Žutić", which is the one who comes in, breaks in, burns, is money intended for political activities in the election campaign for presidential elections and funds intended for the permanent work of political parties puts it in his pocket by, and recently, fighting over prey, pumping money that was not used for political activities, which ended in their pockets, in his pockets, above all. He founded several entrepreneurial shops, several in Borca, some in Crepaja, various entrepreneurial shops appeared – Ivan Cvianović, Verica Cvianovic, Zeljka Cvianović, Branislav Simidzjan, Nevena Tomić, Mr Manić and Kostadin, I don't know which, Mijailović, then the electrical works of Stari Banovci, etc. And the money, only in the presidential campaign of about 30 million dinars, was pumped from the party account, instead of into political activity, into its pockets and into the pockets of its close party colleagues. We must warn that something like this is happening because it does not develop political life. If he had used that money as a political party for Dveri, it would not have been from a political organisation intended for families, patriotic organisations, to become an anti-state terrorist organisation. I warned you through that survey board that he, who hangs out with extremist foreign ATAKA-type organisations Bulgaria, etc., who want to take part in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will not be able to resist hitting Serbia on his own. So, when he got his hands on that money, he wasn't developing a party, he was developing with him various tocillas, drug cartels, etc. who added money to him who was from the state budget and, along with Gilas, hit the state of Serbia, hit institutions and was not enough for Scott to force him into parliament, so now he wants Gilas to force him back into parliament without a vote. That's why I have that saying - gone Scott, left us his idiot who still wants to pump money for political activities. In doing so, the authorities have taken appropriate actions, as far as I know, handed over the case to the Prosecutor's Office, but Zagorka Dolovac does not want to process Mr Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as Boška "Zutića Ljotica". We must warn this way of funding political leaders, because the money is not meant for Bosko Obradovic to buy an apartment on Dedinj, but is intended to develop a political party. If he had done so, they would have prevented him from acting anti-stately in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66696	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 4th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66697	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the problem is that Scott and the bastards are solving, trying to solve political problems in Serbia and manage political life in Serbia. You were also ordered to adopt amendments to these laws and for many things were directly issued by Kukan, Flankinstein, Bilchik, Fajon and the rest of the world's bogeyman, known and unknown, and you stand before them calmly and you fulfill their every order. We Serbian radicals have already warned you for almost four years that everything must be done to improve democratic processes in Serbia, that parliamentary democracy must rise to one more serious level, that it must literally start from the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You didn't listen to anything. You didn't listen to anything. It didn't bother you when we say you can't connect the grandmothers and frogs, that you can't have 30, 40 points of the agenda to be within one item of the agenda. You didn't mind, you laughed when we say - you can't do an emergency procedure, and you say, "Who's to blame for not having time to write amendments, who's to blame for our researchers saying that you won't cross the censorship in the next election, who's to blame for this, who's to blame for that?" You don't have any political consciousness at all, and you're MPs and you don't know what you should actually do in this National Assembly and how to do it. Everything, just not what you're doing. Well, she said the other day here, colleague Malusic, that no laws were passed in the National Assembly, that you only voted here. Unfortunately, that's true. Anyone who understands democratic processes sounds amazing, but that's the case. You're talking about the amendments we've been putting up with today. Of course, we don't object to you, it is your right, but how is it possible that you didn't have any objections to these laws now? One of these laws you passed on May 29th of this year and was the best in the world when we criticized that law. How is it possible that in just a few months, there have been so many problems that you haven't noticed, you've been waiting for this Kukan and Flankinstein to dictate them to you? That's your problem. We insist – return to solving political problems before these elections to the National Assembly. To begin with, accept our proposal to amend the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, to return to the MPs of liberty, according to the Constitution, that each MP is free to make his mandate available to the political party from whose lists he has been elected. Flyers, thieves, criminals, who steal mandates, as long as there are such immoral people in the National Assembly, because there is no greater immorality in politics than stealing a mandate, and you will not prevent it from passing the law, there is no happiness in what you are trying to do. Our only hope is that this Frankenstein, too, realizes that his flyers are too expensive, so he can ban it, so maybe he'll order you to pass that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66698	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66699	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I would like to know when and by what law, one of the representatives of the parties meeting with the servants of the European Parliament may have raised that question, to see if they will be at local elections from now on or at any other standard to be used in a campaign of lists of users of folk cuisines or lists of people receiving social assistance on the territory of the municipality? That's the situation we had in Bear. In Medvedja, apart from SNS, who hired all of her resources for the municipality, she also hired several satellite parties, one of whom used the list of people's cuisine users from the Medvedja municipality, the Serbian right-wing, etc. which is the satellite party of power. Is this a normal election environment and are these equal and fair electoral conditions? Where are the reactions that some minister says - this is outrageous, this can't, this is where it's going to fit? It is a humiliation, first of all, of citizens, of users and of soup kitchens or recipients of social assistance. Where are the reactions? Is that what we're adopting now as something that's good, so everyone else has to apply, or is it a conviction and it takes someone to answer for it? By not reacting to these things you make it normal, you give it legitimacy and it is pointless to talk about improving any conditions and any other things in election campaigns when we have such a situation in Serbia to use the list of users of folk cuisine and recipients of social assistance for political purposes. In this way these people are humiliated, and those who boast on social networks and in the media as they have come to these lists, they show what the representatives of the regime think about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66700	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government under the amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendments of the People's MP, Olena Papuga, to Article 2 proposing the addition of a new Article 3. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 158(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66701	You're just talking about changing the law you passed on May 29, 2019. Can't any of you tell us what your brains were when you passed the law? How is it possible that you've passed a felerical law like this and you're correcting it today? The problem is that by this law you have not changed anything fundamental, and the bottom line is that you have not banned any of these laws from using social funds to buy and state funds to buy voters. Did he say that cars can't be used, that only protected faces can do it, and then that means only Vucic, can only Vulin, can only Nebojsa Stefanović, can only Bata Gasic, only Ana Brnabic can. You, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, cannot, you are not a protected face, nor can Zoran... (Vojislav Seselj: Zorana can. Is she a protected face? (Vojislav Seselj: She can. ) As a female rights fighter and yes, yes, possible. So he's just saying the opposite of what you here in power are saying that as someone wants these laws to forbid the Wolf from participating in the campaign. No, you're narrowing it down. Not that Vanja Udovicic, Jadranka Joksimovic, will be able to do without them. But it doesn't stand anywhere about what's going to happen to the companies on which you provide this material that you've already begun to share to the people. Let the company "Aloro", "Bravo", so they are called, to the most extent, pack what we now share with the people. So these are some pre-election packages. I'm telling you that last night I saw a package given to a woman who won't vote for you. That's very important to you. I will repeat again – two liters of oil, two kilograms of flour, one bag of palents, one long-term milk – liter, bag of macaroni, rice, coffee 200 grams, sugar, "Tiber" cookie - kg, salt and 10 eggs. It's a package that's already being divided around Belgrade, and then you're talking fairy tales here-- you're gonna ban someone from speaking at a party rally during working hours. By half past four, they'll cut the tape, and at four and fifteen, the same people you brought in to applaud when the tape is cut, to applaud now to the party president. Don't be hypocritical. Say, "We do what we do, but don't make fools of the people."
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66702	The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66703	I'm interested in, in addition to all your efforts to like you, to make out, to show that you actually have great democratic potential and tolerance, have you seen today what these mediators of yours, these mediators, those who lecture you? They said there are no conditions for democracy and fair elections in Serbia. The ones you've been meeting with for months, where you wanted to present how advanced we are here and how we've been doing everything according to EU standards and Democrats, and they say today -- something like that, so shame on them. So, in addition to all of your efforts to gain their affection and sympathy, these very people who are serving as ambassadors, who are mediators here, said there's nothing out of it. So it's not too late, maybe we don't have to talk about this nonsense anymore. Pull these laws. Let's start dealing with something that will benefit the citizens of Serbia, not what should have been served just to get some praise from abroad for the Serbian government. They won't praise you anyway. They said there was no such thing as democracy and praise. Let's pull these laws and talk about something else. That's the consequence and that's what we warned you about. So, apart from being humbled and down to that level that some former, ludicrous Members of the European Parliament, lead here the main word, you did what they asked of you, and in the end it wasn't enough for them either. That's all we talked about this summer about, and now that the cards are open, you see what you're going to do and how you're going to deal with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66704	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66705	When all this is looked at, the arguments that you've given along with the proposals of these laws and then it's to be concluded that you won't last much longer. The problem is that you seem to support it here, Mr. Martinovic, the problem is that you still resist saying about KIM – yes, that is, that is, the independent state of Kosovo. Do you see here that between you and this government commission, which the government has made to regulate a little bit of this regulation, to make them more European or whatever they might do, that they said that you must first deliver that opinion to NGOs where Sonja Licht is, so if they're satisfied with your proposal and these techniques, then it can go further in the process. Doesn't that tell you anything? It's the fact that they don't count on you anymore. They have a lot more resources than you have and you can invest them in buying voters. No need for 100% sale, 100% purchase, but they have more. Those whom they lead to briefing, lead to counselling, they will help them with more heartening, and when we pointed to certain things we revealed. First, the SRS exposed Bosko Obradovic's policy. It's not you. You later saw what this was all about and then you joined that operation that the SRS had already taken over. We are aware that not all participants in the election procedure can be equal. The most equal are those who exercise power, because whatever laws you vote will always find space to abuse it, on the one hand and on the other hand, these friends of yours, as much as your colleague Markovic said that the days do not already come here, they have support from the West. Why do they have support from the West? Because they're working against their country's interests. We also stand up to it. We're for you to look at what we're saying. We don't sit here for the bad guy. We'd like to give you SRS positions. We want to convey to you the views of Serbian citizens and we are mostly criticising what is not good, what we hear from them. If you are so sure that what you are doing as a government and there is a shift, then why this miserable bribery of voters, citizens of Serbia? What's just before, the contents of the packages, read, it's worth a couple thousand dinars or maybe not even that much. That's underestimation. On election day, the same value is both academics and peasants. Allow him at least that day when elections are a holiday, not to vote for what he has to, because he promised you something or you promised him something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66706	Thank you. Now I'm setting a break of one hour and with work continued at 1400 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The second amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66708	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable ministers, I absolutely agree with the government's opinion, as well as the argument that the amendment should not be accepted, because the whole set of laws, which we are discussing today in particular, aims to improve the electoral process, the electoral environment in our country, and also to provide absolutely equal conditions for all participants and that all participants in the electoral process are absolutely visible. They were also precisely defined, i.e. redefined terms and election campaigns and public resources and banning political entities to use, or abuse their official positions, or to use funds from local self-government units' budgets or funds from Serbia's Republic budget to finance political activities during the campaign. The most important role is certainly played by the Anti-Corruption Agency, which will also monitor the abuse of the official position, when officials are concerned with preventing the management of a functional campaign, and also to prevent abuse of public resource use. And we have once again shown that there is no untouchable and that anyone who does contrary to the provisions of the law will certainly be processed. What we have started as a government, we have certainly promised and done, and that is to improve the electoral process and the electoral environment in our country we will continue to work to improve the electoral process, so that the electoral process in our country will be the best and most transparent. A lot has been done in terms of the electoral list and those who have certainly passed these electoral laws that we are changing today, are not present in principle debate, do not come to work, do not come when we are discussing this set of laws or in particular, and I am sure they will not be present even when these laws are passed. So so much about how much they want to improve the electoral process in our country, they'd do it in a different way to break something, break something, curse something, violence, and that's certainly the only thing they can do, and they certainly win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66709	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66710	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with the explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it rejected the proposed amendment. Article 2 The draft law is just supplementing and precise in Article 50. The law on the prevention of corruption is therefore necessary. These bill proposals are precisely aimed at strengthening responsibility in relation to the use and availability of public resources, to clear separation of functional and political functions, as well as the regulation of violations for public officials using public resources in the election campaign, which is contrary to the law. I fully support the introduction of order, because it is necessary for regulations to be equal for everyone and to be regularly updated and controlled. It is necessary to prevent corruption. Together with these draft laws, it is precisely that they represent a continuation of the laws that have been passed since the state led the serious government, or SNS, with coalition partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66711	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you are, colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66712	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption is the strategic priority of the Serbian government and certainly the Ministry of Justice, which established a set of measures and a plan for the adoption of the law, in order to act both preventively and repressively. So, on September 1st, the launch of the Anti-Corruption Law is expected to expand the powers of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the provisions relating to officials are strengthened. A circle of data has been expanded that public officials will have to report. The provisions concerning and the procedure in which this Act is to be decided, and the Anti-Corruption Agency will also play an active role in the adoption of the law. During the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act 2008, certain shortcomings were observed and there was a need to specify the provisions and to address more detailed issues relating to conflict of interest, to the accumulation of functions or to the reporting of the property of officials. The aim of this law is to protect public interest, reduce the risk of corruption, as well as strengthen the integrity and accountability of public authorities, on the other hand. This proposal means establishing a normative framework, as well as meeting commitments towards GREC, or a group of the Council of Europe's countries to fight corruption. I'd like to remind you that four regional centres have been formed with the D.A.'s departments and the police. They deal exclusively with corrupt crimes. The information I could get to is that the result of their work was 13,000 criminal charges and 771 convictions. To a large extent, internal co-operation, i.e. co-operation between different state authorities and institutions, was also involved in Serbia, i.e. the so-called a network of liaison officers from 13 relevant national authorities, such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, DRI, NBS, Tax Administration, etc. For the first time, we have also established a financial forensics service, which is important for the control of financial crime. So these are just some of the examples of the continuing fight against corruption. In terms of further fighting, the SNS parliamentary group will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66713	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66714	Thank you, Chairman. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable MPs, when we talk about these proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to fight corruption, we must say that the topic is very current, so it must be defined first. Corruption is, in the broadest sense, any abuse of a position by a civil servant or a person who performs a particular public function, which is intended to have a personal or material benefit. Given that the National Assembly has adopted the Anti-Corruption Prevention Act replacing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, it is necessary to implement amendments and additions in that law as proposed in the amendments and amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act that is still in force. To that end, the government has educated a working group on co-operation with the European Security and Co-operation Organisation and the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. The task force carried out analyses of all the recommendations of the report of these bodies and concluded that the recommendations refer to, firstly, the separation of functional activities and secondly – the financing of the election campaign. In Article 2. The proposal for a provision of this law, as I said, defines certain concepts, such as corruption, public authorities, public officials, public functions, family member, associated face, strategic documents, political entities, an area particularly risky for the creation of corruption and new concepts – public resources, such as immobility, movable matter and any good that is in public property, i.e. in another form of property used by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the AP and units of local self-government, public enterprises, companies, institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units. The draft law also amends Article 2. The law on the prevention of corruption, i.e. Article 2(2), in Article 29. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, introducing banning officials from using public resources to promote political parties, or political entities. In both draft laws, new positions 4 and 5 are added, which prescribes a ban on the use of public gatherings in which they are present as functionaries for the promotion of political parties. But what I'd like to say is still in my presentation. As you know, our President Alexander Vukic was in Greece, in Athens, where he signed the Declaration on the Construction of a Fast Line from Piraeus via Skopje, Nis, Belgrade to Budapest. So Nis, next to the highway hub, will become a railway hub when added and in the plan to build a fast track from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, and become a railway hub and thus justify the epithet of "the Tsar City". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66715	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66716	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66717	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Comrade Orlic, I apologize, by the amendment of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to do the amendment. I'm reporting for the amendment as well as others. I was the first to answer. Everything's fine, we'll all talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66719	You'll get the Radeta word, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66720	I'm just asking you to measure the time I'm using right now through the time of the parliamentary groups. So, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since we're still on the amendment committee, I wanted to take the opportunity to show that let's say this amendment is one good proof that they're not the exact ones that were otherwise spoken during this debate, and that went in the direction, so there's a proposal that's now no one can touch or touch, and there's nothing that can change, and there's no point in proposing amendments, because nothing can change. As you can see, of course, and of course we were right when we said that the National Assembly is the one who wonders and that this solution, just like any other, will be in line with what the MPs decide. This amendment is living proof that it is exactly the way it always is, because otherwise it can't be. I'm glad to see there's a consensus in the O.R. that's how it is. The amendments speak some things, let's say the previous ones, who came here to the National Assembly on the proposal of one of the representatives of the former regime. A lot of things say, you know, among other things, that they send amendments according to what the requirements are, these days, current requests, certain NGOs, which are prescribed by representatives of the former regime and then handed them over to the office. It is also a very good answer to the question of who and how it relates to this bill and to the whole idea of improving our election process further. As you can see, there are no objections to our account. If they're heading in the direction, there's something they're looking for and everything they're looking for on their side you have to accept. The truth is completely different. We support the view that what simply doesn't make sense, should not be an integral part of the law, as you have seen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will not be. The fact that the representatives of the former regime accept and send things, but without success, I think it says enough whose role they play in this whole process. Secondly, the fact that there was no one here to explain and defend you. So, representatives of the former regime, to hear once again Serbian citizens, do not participate at all in the debate about all the things that they have been screaming about for months, but, according to various media, which, by the way, is what the European Parliament has come to cry and cry about there. It's not a good election atmosphere, it's not good election conditions, it's not the laws they've adopted, there's a problem with a function campaign, there's a problem of resource abuse, and you know, a million and one thing they've invented and lied about. Here, now, we adopt laws that completely eliminate the weaknesses of their laws on these topics, on the topics of functional campaigns, on the issues of public resources, and they are not. They are not there, which tells you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you citizens of Serbia who are following this, that they are, in fact, talking nonsense all the time, saying things and lying in a senseless way. They absolutely don't care about any improvement in the election process, they don't believe in the things they say themselves, because if they did, they'd come here to defend them and represent them. If they did, they wouldn't just leave it at the office, and then they'd run faster to the cash register to get what they can from this month's money, so they'd head out to some coffee shop or where they're already spending their time. They don't spend time in the National Assembly. They know for themselves, their words are completely empty, completely hollow, completely insignificant. If it were different, these words would be spoken here when an opinion should be exchanged and the arguments faced. So that's also what certain amendments say. As for the note we heard today, the bill's proposals were formed in line with the pressures of the OSCE, which is probably an NGO. I must remind you, the European Security and Co-operation Organisation is not an NGO, as it is popularly said, it is an intergovernmental organisation, it numbers a significant number of members and it is formed in accordance with the UN Charter. These members include European countries, Asian countries, Central Asia above all, the Caucasus region, North America, the Russian Federation, of course, is a member of the OSCE organisation, just like various other countries. What I'm saying is that sharing opinions with them means exchanging opinions with relevant and competent conversants dealing with these processes around the world. There's nothing controversial about it, and there's nothing in it, as someone here has tried to suggest. It's not humiliating for the earth, but we talk all the time. We pride ourselves on the level of democracy and freedom, which we have established and show willingness to always raise it by something more. That we can always say we are the ones who have allowed the electoral process to be significantly better than it was in 2012, in 2008, here's the next one to make sure it's even better than it is now, because in such conditions we can only hope for a good result. There's nothing humiliating about it. But let me tell you something that's trying to humiliate you. Among other things, the former regime with its shameful performance in the European Parliament yesterday. He can only humiliate himself. So no one else was humiliated by Dragan Djilas or Nebojsa Zelenovic or these anonymous DS representatives and all others who were lying in front of an empty room three hours ago, only lying in a senseless lie, slandering, insinuating Alexander Vukic, the Serbian government, the parliamentary majority, their own state. So, to be clear, our own country has been uttering complete nonsense and nonsense, apparently people want to kill themselves today because their wages are higher than in his day. In addition to talking nonsense, as someone took it, so today they cut their veins here in front of the National Assembly, they don't remember saying how much less pay they had in their time, so let's see if someone might have tried to hurt themselves. They don't say they're making up affairs here, trying to put something on Alexander Vukic's soul, members of his family, and then after their own stupidity, they have to eat, deny and admit that they lied, like that Alexic, who himself said everything I, Alexic said for weeks about Alexander Vukic and his family, are lies. That's what Aleksic practically confessed to the moment he said, who, what Alexic said sent to the prosecutor's office, was making a false report. Alexic, admitted to being a liar, but did not boast how familiar I am in the European Parliament they failed to do so, that if we were to discuss ties with drug clans in this country in any way. They themselves have those relationships the best possible. Whoever takes pictures and boasts about friendships or family relationships, I don't know what it's about, it doesn't matter what it is about drug dealers, here's a drug dealer. So, two people see, one is Gilas, I didn't mean him, but this one next to him is a drug dealer, a convicted drug dealer, so, a man caught with two and a half pounds or three serious drugs, a drug that has value, measured hundreds of thousands of euros, and who Dragan Gilas was very close to wasn't hiding it, didn't even hesitate to visit him, to bring him lunch and any other offers. So, these friendships, as far as we know, have not been praised in the European Parliament, and it is a pity that these people would not have explained a little more precisely who they were talking to and who they brought in a bunch of other things, were, of course, denied by the institutions, but, on their part, our assessment that the notorious nonsense was confirmed by their friends and their choices. When I say from Brkic's obscenity magazine "Tabloid", they convince nonsense. Here, today, just this morning this came out, Brkic himself says in his text, so it is all my nonsense and my lies and what Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Bosko Obradović and others say. Here, today says Brkic, it's all Brkic came up with and that's what Brkic was talking about two, three, four years ago. If someone in Serbia is not clear, and I believe that it is clear to everyone, then today something clearer, but it is a pity that they do not bear this evidence to boast, to raise themselves in the European Parliament, to further explain to them what people are and what people have called on to muddle Serbia, to say about their country all the ugliest and ugliest and the president of their own state, to make it a little clearer to what human quality it is when we talk about Gilas, about Zelenovic and others belonging to that camp. What do the representatives of the European Parliament think? What can anyone tell you? It doesn't burden us to the extent that some would like it to happen, did they say they counted. Serbia has realised for its part, I don't know 20%, 30% of the agreed improvements, it doesn't affect the fact that ladies and gentlemen, yes, and this is the truth that I'm about to tell you about everything that we're following, and believe that we're following it precisely. On the day of tomorrow, Serbia will have fully realized 60% of everything we have talked about all these months, and everything else will be deep in the realization phase. So there will be zero activity and someone will be able to say that progress is gone and that we're not doing what we said we didn't have any problem with doing it. Now, that's the truth. Did everyone in the European Parliament understand that or not? We don't have any problem explaining these things to them. But, about one thing that we understand each other definitely, we're doing this because we're interested in having the best electoral conditions, because we're interested in being able to say with full right tomorrow -- do you see that they've all lied? If we were able to meet each aspect of the electoral process and promote it to be a hundred times, two hundred times better than in their time, because today nobody dares to say a single word, that something in our election procedure is controversial. What about them? They'll just deal with what they can do, only they know, among other things, they'll keep lying, they'll keep hanging out with proven, convicted drug traffickers. They will continue to deal with nonsense, possibly new attempts to break up institutions, break up the National Assembly. Tomorrow, as far as I can see, public media service is being re-obsessed again, but they'll best talk about themselves, about what their only political offer is, and how much they're actually worth in political, but also every other sense. It's good for people to see that people understand. Just because our people are wise people, they can't be deceived in any way, they see and understand well that ordinary thieves are with their hooligan methods, with their violence, destruction, threats of murder, people who are not worthy of a single honest voice. It is because our people see it well and understandably this country has changed drastically. This is no longer the personal front of any Gilas, no Schoolman, no Miskovic, this is the country that has decided to take care of itself. They will have to meet their insatiable needs, their own greed elsewhere. This is the country that decided to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66721	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66722	Thank you, Arsic, after you said earlier that you could not talk about the amendment proposed by the Committee and which became an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66723	I said that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66724	Yeah, when I called and you wouldn't give it to me, but please don't steal my time. Here's the best illustration of how you in power are calmly listening to orders from any of the EU fizzers. At the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 29 May 2019, you adopted the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. In the meantime, there was no choice, you couldn't have had any negative views on the application of this law. By order of these calls from experts who are already written off there somewhere in their countries, you are five and a half months later, on 14 November 2019, you proposed by the Government, the Assembly, most will adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Well, they told you in this table they sent you, you didn't do it right, you disobeyed us as we said, and then a month later, the Committee submitted an amendment to article 2 of this law. This is so humiliating that really a man can't take it anymore. I'm just saying, they're going to ask you again to amend this bill, because in this last position you've suggested a complete nonsense, that the Agency decides within five days of the date of the proceedings if one of these above laws is violated in the election campaign. I ask you, what if an official in electoral silence or a day before the electoral silence participates not in any rally, the day before the election silence, which he used to report and someone that he used the resources of a public official, what happens when the Agency decides only within five days? The election passed, the train passed. So, now I'm paying attention to this Frankenstein thing that you brought down to lunch today, and yesterday and today that's giving you a series, here I'm paying attention to you being ordered to change this because you haven't done anything with these changes by the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66725	Ambassador Marijan Rističević. A colleague, on the committee's amendment, or is it a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that my amendment or someone else's? (President: No, not on board. You had a report. I'll wait for my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66727	Thank you. Since the proposer is in charge of the Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposing representative has declared that he accepts the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66728	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the stability of a state is very important. Mr. Martinovic certainly remembers the rise of the local and Dalmatian peasants who were welcomed by the Communist Party. In the list "Proleter", I did not participate, my colleague Micunovic remembers those times well, but was a youth. So, the Communist Party, which in Dresden three, four years earlier, reached conclusions on breaking the country. In Dresden, imagine, he's not in Brussels, he's in Dresden. The Communist Party, these are the heirs of these left-wing sausages, these yellow cockroaches, these boycotters. Was he in 1928 at the Dresden Congress? Here, and Mr. Krlić knows anyway. They reached conclusions that Yugoslavia must be broken because it cannot be Communised, and the Ustashas thought they could not make an independent state. Don't look at this because Serbia is now being treated like the rest of the SFRY, and the SFRY is based on the conclusions of the Dresden Congress to make states of national, Macedonians, Slovenians, Croats, specifically addressed Albanians, is that right, or am I wrong? So our then state created by the blood of Serbs, which was challenged by the grandfather of Bosco's ally, Bosko Perner, and asked how much Serbian blood cost. So, Mr. Martinovic, mentioning Juca Rukavina, the Ustasha movement was led by Juca Rukavin and Artukovic. It's a shooting of Serbian gendarmes and they call it, as they said -- the Communist Party welcomes the Ustasha movement of figures and Dalmatian peasants, puts it on their side. The duty of every communist to help and possibly lead the movement. This tells you that many alliances are possible. Democracy, those who go to Brussels to Tanja Fajon, etc. We similar conclusions, towards Serbia, continue to treat the rest of the SFRY. They've all separated from Serbia. Serbia became independent, keeping Yugoslavia until the last breath. The Serbs were an armature of the former state, and that's why they were declared the bad guys, because they were guarding the state they were breaking from the outside and from the inside. Now they continue to treat Serbia, Mr Martinovic, as the rest of the SFRY and today the Communist Party, the yellow one, is now the Communist Party, puts it on the Ustasha side. Do I praise Kurti or praise that side that greets the Ustasha movement and puts itself on their side? That's why my comparison is appropriate, even though you thought that Juca Rukavin, who killed Serbs, would eventually shoot him so he wouldn't say how many Serbs he killed and how much. So, even though this Ljuca Rukavina and how it played a role in the disappearance of Serbs from the area where they lived. And today, when they rise up towards Serbs, when they establish their countries, then those Serbs living in that country, like Bosnia and Croatia, immediately proclaim the aggressors, even though 500 years live there, and today they treat Serbia as the rest of the SFRY. What's going on in Brussels with Tanya Fajon, Picul or whatever they're called. What Gilas is doing, and then what happened, who was in prison with Juco Rukakin? The man's last name was what? Gilas. Who wrote complaints in his favor? He wrote a crazy Serb, Sima Markovic, Gorkic, I don't know if he was a Serb or a Serbian name. The Serbs were naive and now they have no right to be naive. We don't have a spare state. I am not defending power, I am defending the state of Serbia and its right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66729	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66730	Very short, Mr. Risticevic. So, mentioning the European Parliament yesterday, so this is what I pointed to. So if they talked about their lies something about co-operation, alleged co-operation of drug clans with today's Serbian government or with the president of the Republic and his family. This is what they were supposed to mention. So here's a man who, if I'm not mistaken, is called Milan Dabovic. He's a brother-in-law or former brother-in-law or friend, I don't know what he is, but apparently a very close man named Dragan Gilas. And I'm just saying that it's a shame that they didn't say their words, supported their lies with something that's true, and the truth is that these two men are not only close, but closest to each other, as you can see from this photograph. And we, as serious people, will not say – Gilas certainly gave money to this Dabovic, but we can ask – who gave money to this Dabovic? Is there a rich enough man out of his environment, whatever his name is, who is able to make hundreds of thousands of euros worth of goods, and two and a half kilos of cocaine with which Dabovic was captured so valuable, financed? As we know, this story has its own sequel. Sam Gilas and his listeners have been having an impeccable drip against a cop for weeks, against a man by his name and by his last name, but you know who? The policeman who personally caught Dabovic with two and a half kilos of intoxicating drugs. So, the man who stopped that drug from being found on the street to poison our children, and this Dabovic, a friend of Gilas's, sent behind bars, against him Gilas and Gilas's environment, may point to some deeper and further connections, perhaps not, telling me whatever. Since you mentioned Cominterna, these methods, you're right, are present today, so to speak. The purity of the opposition from the corner of Gilas, Zelenovic and their others, Brkic and the court, today is shown exclusively in terms – or you do what Gilas tells you, and then you must not even enter the National Assembly, but you are trying to set it on fire, to tear it apart, whether you are trying to judge Alexander Vukic and the people who are members of the SNS, or not. They are in that sense, Mr. Risticevic, a kind of new Cominterna, and I would say true followers of the ideology and system of values of Enver Hodge.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66731	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Martinovic, are you sure the police have seized all the supplies of this Dabovic? That's Dragan Gilas' brother-in-law. I doubt that. Are you sure Tocillo fell off all 77 kilos? Watch out, 77 kilos. You know that time Sergei Trifunovic made a mistake in the bakery, so he saw the flour. He's on his way to get the buns, and he's seen the flour and he says, "Can he take one gram here and two to carry?" Are you sure all the supplies are down? I'm not really. By the behavior of those who say we know your address, by those who tell us we're making a list, and be careful, there's an exact order. So, we know your addresses, we're making a list, and then a man shows up, I don't know what his name is, a cobajagi journalist, says, "You all need to be stuffed in camps, so you need to be hanged, you need to be... It's not yesterday's Rukavin, it's Budak. What was his name again? Miles? What was his name, Budak? (Vladimir Orlic: Mile) ) Mile Budak. So, crazy guy. It was Budak, and here in Serbia there's one lunatic, there's more. That we should all be put in camps, hanged, shot, burned, let go of Sava and Danube, the original Ustasha problem. Here's yesterday's Rukavin, that's what I was saying. And in the end, we need to wet ourselves on our graves. Whose program is this? Who was I talking about? Are you sure people can do this? There's something wrong with them. That's why I don't believe, Mr. Orlic, that the entire amount has been seized, because, here, you had here in front of the Parliament, separated, separated, burned. They didn't all fall there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66733	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66734	That man you asked about, who threatened to send us to the camps is called Slobodan Georgiev. So it's about a big journalistic name. You've heard of him for sure. He's the boss of that Birn or KRIK. I don't know, I mix them all the time, it's all the same to me. (Marian Risticevic: He looks like Chernozemski.) Yeah, looks like that Chernozemian, that's right. It's just not the same name. So it's about a man who's absolutely on the line of these people we're talking about right now, and he's, like, boasting how smart he is and how brave he is, publicly hung on those social networks, those Twitters, the message, the video showing members of the SNS, our activists and himself saying it to the microphone -- well, we're all going to camp you. So he and his men will take us to the camps. Otherwise, up to his neck, a man is involved in these lies of Milovan Brkić and his tabloids whom you see today, and Milovan Brkic proudly admits as his child, and whether a total of 2.5 kilos of intoxicating drugs found in this brother-in-law, you say the former brother-in-law, I'm not sure, Dragan Đilas, the whole amount, I really don't know how to tell you, but I know that it's signifying, as some might say, the involvement of Dragan Gilas and his surroundings on the pursuit of an honorable policeman who deprived this drug dealer of liberty. This tells me, among other things, that there is a pattern in that boast, in the willingness to take revenge on a good, decent man without any understanding, pity, no emotion, if you will, only if he has in any way resented Dragan Gilas. This isn't his first cop chase. You remember the safe situation when an honorable officer, imagine, what he did, imagine what a mistake he made in his life -- stopped his Majesty, Gilas Dragan, at the time of office director Boris Tadic, because he did not respect traffic regulations, moved, I think, in yellow tape. Because of what stopped him, as any other officer, as any of us would have stopped and asked for documents, this Gilas first threatened to run out of work, then intervened, then there was a great power in the country, remember that, with the superiors of that honest man and managed to make his life miserable, make sure that this one was killed at work, and nothing meant anything to him that he just...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66735	You're bringing the end, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66736	Here, I'm done. ... He did his job, he followed the rules, he followed the law, and he had a pregnant wife at home. So when they are able to destroy lives in this way to anyone who resents them, even if simply, people respected the law and did their job, you can see why Serbia looked like what it looked like in their time and perhaps even more importantly that we know today and that we are constantly reminded of what our beloved country would look like if such criminals fall into their hands again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66737	Thank you. By amendment, MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go. Nemanja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66738	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. I've shown you the Rules of Procedure. I think you saw it, but good. Injures Article 104, Mr Arsic, who speaks of the right of replication and says: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a national MP who is not a member of the same group, stating his name, last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers shall have the right to replication. ” There's absolutely nothing here. There were neither offensive expressions between these gentlemen who exchanged replicas nor anything wrongly interpreted. They are part of the same ruling coalition. If they need to apologize, you as vice president of the National Assembly can provide them with a small hall, but without direct television transmission. We have gathered here, Mr. Arsic, for a specific occasion, and a concrete reason is currently to amend the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act. If you want, you can, you're very powerful, you can schedule a session to be one point free of charge and answer and talk whoever you want, what comes to mind, anything. That's what this looked like, but today isn't the day. One more thing, Mr. Arsic. For two minutes and 42 seconds, you say to the speaker, "You bring the end of it, like fatherly." You know, Article 104's position says the replica can't last more than two minutes. So you must respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. You don't do that and this is embarrassing, completely what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66739	Kola Sarovic, a session with, as you say, a free topic in which MPs will speak everything and make an appointment when you are president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I doubt it'll ever happen, but I'll leave it to you. On the other hand, while you were reading the Rules of Procedure, you forgot only to read Section 3, that the exercise of the rights laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article was decided by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly. I don't understand why you've even advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, unless you're the lawyer for Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and others. I see no other reason, for neither your party has been mentioned, nor have you been mentioned personally, nor your program. So there was a discussion between colleagues Risticevic and Orlic about Bosko Obradovic, a drug dealer. I don't know if you're defending them, but since I know you're a graduate lawyer, you can do it by the courts, but here in the National Assembly, you won't be able to do it through the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes, I do. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66740	Mr. Arsic, don't you understand what I said, I believe you. The other thing is, I'm a graduate lawyer, and that's right, and that's what you got. We just don't know what you are, Mr. Arsic, but we'll determine the next few days. Article 27 has been injured. You are required to hold meetings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Where the Rules of Procedure gives you certain powers as chairman at the moment, that doesn't mean that you can do what comes to your mind. When it says in the Rules of Procedure that you decide on the right to reply, that is precisely what it means to decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the first position of Article 104. So if the condition laid down in Article 1 is fulfilled, then you can give someone the right to replication. It doesn't mean that whenever you think about it, you can let someone talk whenever they want and how much they want. So you didn't give an explanation about the part where I showed you that after two minutes and 42 seconds, for the first time, and very mildly, you warned the speaker in words – you bring the end slowly. You, the other MPs, to me above all, immediately turn off the microphone when two minutes pass and it shows that you are not high enough and mature enough to perform that function that, unfortunately, you perform.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66741	Comrade Sarovic, being a graduate lawyer doesn't mean you know well enough to interpret the Rules of Procedure. And there's something else I need to tell you. In order for you to be able to criticise whether or not at any time I am warning the MP to bring the debate to an end and whether that MP belongs to a parliamentary group that supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia or does not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you would have to sit here in the hall, not take a walk, and then in the first situation you say something is wrong. All colleagues who appeared for the replica, at about the same time, were distracted at the same time to draw their discussions to an end. In Article 27, what you have advertised and related to Articles 104, paragraphs 1 and 3, I have not violated the Rules of Procedure because Article 3 gives the President discretion to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 1 and 2 of Article 104 have been met. Rules of Procedure. Also, you cannot claim that I have violated the Rules of Procedure because it is decided by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. So I'm asking you now - do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you have carried out for a little while?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66742	Mr Arsic, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I declare that I want the National Assembly to declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66743	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the opportunity given to us by Marijan Rističević... People's MPs speak out loud. ) Here, you see, if you could give me back my time, until the gentlemen return to the culture of political dialogue, if possible. The culture of political dialogue is a tradition and must be nurtured, you can't do that. All I'd like to say is, the way Mr. Marijan Risticevic defended his amendment is a historical fact, but one small mistake has been made. At the Dresden Conference, exactly the plan was made, as he said, but the Zagreb conference that was held at Dr. Jamonje's villa is actually the one that joined the so-called The dinar uprising, the Ustasha uprising, and there he is absolutely right. A participant at both conferences is Žarko Zrenjanin, and to my great misfortune, I live in a city named after the last communist leader at a time when neither Lenjingrad nor Stalingrad, or Titograd, or everyone else, remained Žarko alone. Otherwise, the creator of the first document called "Free Vojvodina", at the Dresden Conference, which envisions the return of much of Vojvodina to Hungary. I am sorry that the name Petrograd has not yet been returned to my city, and those main protagonists why it has not been done today are not sitting here, which is the Alliance for Serbia, almost complete, led by Theophile Pancic. It's the one you don't know if he's prettier or smarter, I don't know what's right by profession. All in all, it should not be one city, the largest city in Banat, that the heritage name of the Dresden Conference and the Zagreb Congress, which was supported by the Ustasha movement, according to Mr Risticevic, and which supported the secession of Yugoslavia and the reduction of Serbia in every way. I'm sorry to hear that, and I hope that will be corrected in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66745	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66746	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the day before today was marked Anti-Corruption Day. I don't know exactly what day it was, but I have one piece of information left, which is that corruption is after unemployment and the standard of living of citizens in the third place of the problem of Serbian society. Given her roots and indestructibility, I would also assign her a position more on that ranking list. Corruption has been something that has existed since human society and the system exists. Aristotle also spoke of this social phenomenon, which implies illegal acquisition or use of social and state goods for personal benefit. And Ciceron was the first to use the expression - bribe and tie it to this phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know today's bill of law, a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, as well as this other, a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, which is required in this state? Would it have been the subject of today's agenda if it hadn't been for your European advisers or, better say, employers? So the motives for passing these laws are not practical, but are exclusively an expression of service towards the EU. Unfortunately, our country is a country with very pronounced corruption. Corruption is seen in all areas of social life, in every social activity. Still, the most pronounced is where there's the most money. As I have an identical amendment to the second law, I will continue in the second amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66747	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66748	Just for a little while, about the explanation we just heard. I want to agree with one thesis and one note to add. I would agree with the thesis that the danger of corruption is the biggest place where the biggest money is in play. And that is why I think it is important to know, that never lose sight of, the biggest money that came under, at least said, or the least suspicious circumstances, refers to the famous 619m euros in income to Dragan Gilas at the time, while, pay attention, this Dragan Gilas was all-and-bright in the Democratic Party, then the ruling party, while he was at the most responsible and responsible functions in the state of Serbia. So he was also the director of the so-called so-called director. The office of the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic at the time, was then minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and was the master of life and death in the city of Belgrade, as its mayor. And just during those years, during the years he spent holding significant levers of power in this country, Dragan Gilas managed to secure himself a fantastic business success. Four of his companies totalled 619m euros. Net profit, whatever it was, 105 million. So, nice, it's clean, and how and where is it recorded that such a case happens somewhere that someone is doing that kind of duty, staying on these functions, that kind of monetary value is convulsed, on the continuum of their companies in their pocket? You're absolutely right about that. So there is a potential danger of corruption and the greatest. There is no worse and more drastic example than what I have just said in Serbia or in any other country. If anyone finds one, I'd like to hear it, but here for years, such an example simply doesn't appear. A note I had. Our country is about to see the Property Survey Act. It's the law that, as you've seen, creates the greatest anxiety precisely with the mentioned Dragan Gilas, this man who doesn't hide his closeness with a convicted drug dealer, but also with others in his environment. It is not known who is more nervous, whether Jeremic, whether Obradovic, whether Zelenovic or someone fourth, but certainly one of the members of their tycoon-hob association. Why? Probably because their conscience is not sufficiently clear when it comes to the origin of the property they possess, but it is certainly something Serbia should have and something that should support everyone well-intentioned. The attitude towards the state, among other things, is shown through whether you are willing to be fair to that money that belongs to all citizens, when someone like Gilas and these are rich in function, and all by working, allegedly working with state-owned enterprises, public institutions of the city of Belgrade and other sources of national money. So, the ones that are financed from the budget. This does so directly to the harm of the citizens of this country and it is certainly something that the serious state must never allow itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66749	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Mr. Sarovic, on what grounds did you answer? Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. For the replica? Based on what, he didn't mention you? Nemanja Sarovic: Here, I will explain. I can't give you, really, with all my desire and my will, you know it well. The word is by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66750	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, of course I agree with the government's opinion, but I must point out that one of the SNS' priorities was a decisive and effective fight against corruption already in 2012. Why? Because corruption is the cancer of every society's wounds, it destroys the tissue of every country and this very corruption brought us to bankruptcy in 2012. The yellow tycoon company has robbed, using just corruption, Serbian citizens for over 100 billion euros. Only from the privatisation process, not according to our findings, but according to the US Institute, it was taken from the country 51 billion euros. Yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas has devastated the Belgrade city's budget by 1.2 billion euros, leaving a debt to pregnant women of 400 million dinars, leaving a debt to those poorest who had neither the funds nor the basic living needs of 120 million dinars. The yellow tycoon at the time of Belgrade's mayoral authority has misusing its power in the worst possible way, usurped land in the pioneer town, one of Belgrade's most elite parts, for the purpose of building the Big Brother series, where, trading for seconds, it has earned millions. The ultimate effect of his wealth on the principles of corruption is the acquisition of 619m euros, i.e. a net income of 105m euros for his enterprises and 25m that he showed in real estate. For SNS democracy means the rule of the people. The Serbian Progressive Party is all it does, and among other things there are these legal proposals, an improvement in the democratic process. In order to improve the democratic process, of course the SNS is always ready for dialogue. Only through dialogue and through the culture of dialogue, as my esteemed colleague Krilic said, that is the value that the SNS advocates and that is what SNS promotes. Of course, the Supreme Judge of all political parties is only one, and these are citizens of Serbia. Citizens of Serbia, using a pen and ballot, have, in continuity since 2012, cast their vote for safe, safe and democratic Serbia, for that policy conducted and implemented by our President Aleksandar Vukic. The same will happen in these elections, because the yellow den for which the value is a lie, for which the values of the robbery, for which the values of the violence, for which the values of the hatred of their own country, are, must be erased from the political scene and must go to the den, or to the historical past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66751	Thank you, Mrs. Wolfeye. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Mr. Mircic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66752	Now it would be perfectly logical for me to mention my colleague Sarovic in his discussion, so he can get the same basis for the right to replication. That's a little weird, but, well, it's being introduced as a rule. The exception is, but it becomes that exception rule. We here are considering what they can or what everything, better said, can't be done by government officials, and one thing that is very important and is present, when elections are, it's buying votes. There is nowhere to stand here that a member of the government, except that he must not perform at political gatherings, which is out of his mind, must not act politically at the time of the election campaign. First of all, every minister is a political figure. And when he's a minister, he's a political figure. And when he's in the government, he's a party, he's the policy that ran him, and that's why he was elected minister. That's perfectly clear, everyone's clear. When he uses an official car, he uses it in his political work. Everything he uses, when it comes to government, it's all for his political action. The post of minister cannot be separated or separated from the role of politicians. But there's one thing -- that whoever is a member of the government or any other politician or actor, a participant in the election in one way or another must not share packages, should not give bribes, corruption, must not buy votes, give money. It doesn't stand anywhere and it would be the subject of punishment, and it's present and it's obvious. However, the truth works, when it comes to giving money, cash, that's where the price fell, it has to be admitted. At the time of Slobodan Milosevic, the Socialists paid one vote, sometimes one hundred marks, depending on what part of Serbia, and then when they came, it fell to about 20 or 30 euros. Now it came, believe it or not, when it comes to local elections, specifically when the Vrbas elections were on a bottle of beer one vote. It is not evidence that the price of the vote has fallen, but evidence that there is an increasing misery and poverty, poverty, so people are ready for four votes, as many in the family has the right, it is about 40 euros to vote. They count that at least 40 euros a day solves their problem or solves the problem in about a week, and then repents when they bring you to power. They'd give more than 40 euros just to get you out of here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66753	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66754	Thank you. Dear MPs, I think it is very important to present some facts and only to the facts always oppose those things that are assumptions. I know that you're a living encyclopedia about political processes and that you know what it was like 15 and 20 years ago, that you remember all of that, and 50 if you have to, 30, it doesn't matter at all. There's something else I want to say. You mentioned earlier that one thing was never regulated at all, and it concerns buying votes and all the wonders you mentioned. In the Criminal Code, there is a special chapter on abuse in voting, i.e. abuse of the electoral process. From Articles 153 to 164. The criminal code, and you know, because in the city where you come from, where you live, there have been such attempts of abuse in the previous two, three years, right in the local elections, and that some have been prosecuted for it, but I'm not only sure if it was in Novi Sad or if it was happening elsewhere, in Odjacs or in Sombor. It doesn't matter. This government has handled such things and these things, it is understood that it is forbidden, because it is contained in the Criminal Code. As far as these other things are concerned, there are clear definitions of what a public resource is, what rights it has and what obligations a public official has. It is a matter of political relationship to one definition, whether you think it should or should not. (Imanja Sarovic: Just explain what the Ministry of Agriculture has to do with it? But I have to be a representative of the government, in any case, this is the government's vote and it's my pleasure. They demand that the regulations be changed, under whatever conditions you want us to go out on the line, that is, to the elections, when the time is right. I think it's very important to say. And thank you for reminding me of which ministry I come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66755	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Mircic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66756	Of all this, Minister, it's true that I'm a living man and it's partly true that I remember everything. There is no man who can remember everything, but the example that you have cited is precisely that group that participated in the local elections, and was previously hired by the SNS, so in the next election, they tried to recruit membership and SNS sympathisers, and that's why it reacted, because the SNS's electoral body tried to endanger itself, to give money. Where'd they get the money? To know the public, gave them earlier from the DS, gave them 200,000 euros to buy votes in the Žabalj municipality not to beat the Serbian radical. Mr. Martinovic is a witness to that. It was an additional election. At a much lower price, they provide votes. When I say much less, they gave someone, they didn't and they didn't have 100,000 euros left. They tried with 100,000 euros to become their own parliamentary local party again, and that went until the moment until they started recruiting, buying membership and SNS sympathisers. It was free that we Serbian radicals warned in polling stations, even trying to physically prevent them until they were touched in the SNS's voting body, nothing was done. At that moment they were processed, found money with them and the public informed. If this were true, I say again, Mr. Martinovic is here as a living witness for the additional elections in the province of Vojvodina. Besides, you're a living witness minister, too. I'm not saying you're a living encyclopedia, far away.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66757	Thank you. The word first has Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, so Minister Nedimovic, is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66758	I see that for days a debate has been held that should serve as an argument against these laws, and on the point that the SNS allegedly buys votes and therefore wins the elections. I just want to say a few sentences on this subject, because I was with my colleagues who talked about it in the same party until 2012. Nemanja Sarovic: When did you realize you were what? Yes, Mr. Sarovic, when I realized I was a donkey. I have the courage to say it. I have the courage to say it, but it doesn't matter now. The Democratic Party, a respected counterpart, stole the elections in both 2007 and 2008. Remember how many votes we won back then, the SRS? We had 70, 80 MPs each. Why am I telling you this? You have to be a little self-critical. The easiest thing for poor election results is to blame the party that is in power and say – that is because they share pate, glasses, measures for people pressure, flour, oil, etc. That's what the yellows did, so the SRS won 70, 80 seats. Now that you're in a situation where you're on the verge of censorship, a little below the censorship, a little above the censorship, etc. You do not want to ask yourself – is there anything that may be problematic in our policy, something that repels voters from us? I don't mind. You carry on with that story, it's the ones who share the packets, share the pâtés, etc. They shared yellow, so we beat them in 2012. We have defeated them before, if honestly, only they had, to say, greater negotiating capacity, so they managed to form governments, but by the number of MPs individually watched, we have defeated them in elections and with their capital investment funds and with their Pajtics and Gilasima, black limos, etc. It didn't help them much in the election. Of course, they'd have been a lot worse if they hadn't done it. I want to tell you something else, despite all this, we won dozens of mandates, we won dozens of seats in the Vojvodina Assembly, and Mircic knows it. In 2004, how many municipalities and cities in Serbia have we won? How many municipalities and cities did she manage only in the Duke’s SRS? I want to tell you that I don't mind, and it's legitimate that you are accusing the government when there's a foundation and there's no basis, but it would be good for you to wonder if what we're saying is what we're doing, is what we're doing exactly what suits the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66759	Thank you. In turn, there is Minister Nedimovic, so Mr Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66760	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, in order not to turn this out now, I to you, Duke, you to me, Serdara, as to who is an encyclopedia and who is not, I must only say that I have seen from your claims that you have actually observed certain things. Yes, the fact is that there are such things, the fact is they've been processed and the fact is that they've seen justice, whatever it is, in some way, even though it's... I will never forget what it was like, what Mr. Martinovic said earlier, what it all looked like 10 years ago. What is the story of changing electoral rules, changing laws and today's agenda, among other things, and this amendment now on the agenda and on Article 2? My people, in politics, you just have or you don't have a good policy and you just go out by the rules that apply at that moment, which is adopted by the Assembly, no one else adopts them. They're the rules themselves, you'll agree, you'll adopt, and now they're bothered by some grandmother, every little thing, and no one's wondering, and neither are those today, who, according to the press conferences, have proposed some changes to the rules, the electoral list and everything else... I don't see anyone here except one. I can't see. Maybe my 3.5 dioptria doesn't throw 10 feet away from here, but that's so... (Miss Radeta: Change your glasses.) Obviously, yes, you're right, maybe I should change my glasses. There's one thing that makes all of this go away. Whatever rules you give to those who have no politics, you can give them whatever you want, he will not receive support.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66761	Thank you. The word now has Mr. Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66762	We Serbian radicals advocate strict respect and law enforcement, not selectively, so when bought from sympathisers and members of SNS, then it is prevented, and when other sympathisers and members, then it is believed to be part of the election process, the temperature rises slightly, etc. Speaking of which, Mr. Martinovic, you must be clear and precise. It is true that the SRS used to have a lot more votes, but it was a completely different electoral body than the electoral body that voted for the DS, but in the meantime something happened to Mr. Martinovic, you just skipped it. A new political option has been formed that, based on the SRS electoral body, through deception and lies, has produced a good election result. Remember, Mr. Martinovic, that your first party president was Tomislav Nikolic who publicly declared in the Serbian Parliament that he would never give up the ideology of Serbian radicalism and Vojislav Seselj, and that we, who stayed with you, are traitors. It was so well-packed, well done marketingly that even the strongest, most radicals at one point thought it was Tomislav Nikolic who would bring Serbia a rebirth, and you yourself thought it would happen, you saw that it was a big fraud. It's basically a man's scam. You continue to ride on these waves that you are advocating a policy that is completely identical and that the policy of the SRS will preserve the integrity, sovereignty, integrity of Serbia, that you as well as the Serbian radicals will keep what they have been saying. Slow time shows who's who. Don't worry if the SRS will be above the censorship or slightly below. It's our success to survive. Not because you have formed a new political option, but because you have unlimited assistance from the West and one Serbian radical that has remained is a success for the SRS, and time, the elections will eventually show the citizens with its own voice who will survive and who will lead Serbia. It's all for nothing. Just remember how many socialists, even these yellow ones shared steam and flour and oil and everything. The day came when we were talking about them as long ago, when it was something many don't even remember how the minister said Nedimovic, and Minister Nedimovic could help because he was on the other side for a while, so he could say about the methods of how the votes were being bought.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66763	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. It's a name.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from Mr. Martinovic, he says – do not be ashamed that in 2012, he realized he was a donkey and he is proud of it. That's, let's say, okay. I won't bother him with that. I think it would be good to hear more about that experience. It is that Slavica Djukić Dejanovic is not here right now, but to explain to us whether he woke up one morning and looked in the mirror and then realized - how it was happening, Mr Martinovic. I think the public would like to know. The second question is, will you, for example? In 2020 to wake up again so you realize, God forbid, that you're an even bigger donkey than you were in 2012? How, Mr. Martinovic, can any of Serbia's citizens trust you with something? You're talking about winning the yellows, winning until 2012, and then for those who took over the ideologies of the yellow ones, if you can't beat them, join them, and join them. (Alexander Martinovic: I always beat you. You're not. Who'd you beat? Ministers who were processed at the time for having illegal funds to buy votes in the elections, people who were top DS sitting in your ranks today, who are your ministers, who are your state secretaries, who are your high-ranking party officials. How did you, Mr. Martinovic, beat them? You're talking about our policy. Our policy might be good, maybe it's not. It is estimated by citizens in the elections, but unlike you, we believe in our politics even if we believe and speak what we think honestly, and you're talking today one thing, you get up tomorrow, you say, I'm an ass, you change the board and you push on. That's the difference, Mr. Martinovic, between you and us.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66765	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66766	There's a lot of difference between No Sarovic. I have won no Sarovic in the SRS in every election, although I have had 10 times less money than he has. Here, Mircic knows that. Always Serbian radicals in Srem, in that part of Vojvodina for which I was in charge, received 10 times more votes than in Belgrade, although Nemanja Sarovic had 100 times more money than I did. He's a politically barren man. You can give him as much money as you want -- he's over 2%, 3%, no theory. It's just that a man can't do that job. But let's put Nemo Sarovic aside now. Mr. Mircic, without wanting to give you advice, do as you please. I don't care if you cross the census or not. After all, at this point no one can even know. That will be decided by citizens in the election. I'm just trying to tell you that it seems to me that I may be wrong, that you are dealing with topics that absolutely do not interest the citizens of Serbia. I've been listening to your president's press conference today. You've been fighting some wars since 2008. Nobody cares about that anymore. You are waging a war against Tomislav Nikolic, you are talking about a doctorate, i.e. Tomislav Nikolic's diploma, about a doctorate named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Serbian citizens are interested -- whether they will have a job, what kind of hospitals they will have, their homes healthy, what roads they will be driving, whether their children will be able to study, whether they will be able to provide their old parents with treatment. These are topics that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia. That's what he's been working on from year to year for SNS. If you ask me, if you ask me, you don't have to ask me, but you're essentially not competing with the SNS election, it's hard for you of the SNS to get a percentage of the votes, you should hit Boška Obradovic, there's your electoral body. You're working with Tomislav Nikolic, you're dealing with Jorgenko Tabakovic. You can't just, how can I tell you, mentally step out of 2008. Now in 2019, and you are dealing with 2008 topics – Tomislav Nikolic stole mandates, Jorvanka Tabaković did this or that. How can I tell you? Nobody cares anymore. That doesn't interest anyone anymore, but never mind, you keep talking about it. I don't mind that. I'm just saying benevolently, don't always look for the causes of defeat in someone's pressure or give them some pâté, flour, etc. Or he won't give it to him. I don't know if it's true after all. I have never done this in my life and I have never received votes for my party in this way, but I want to tell you – ask yourself a little bit is your policy what interests the citizens of Serbia. (President: Thank you. ) Is this what the life interests of Serbian citizens are or are dealing with some topics that nobody else is interested in today in Serbia. Maybe political analysts. Maybe one day you'll be interested in historians. Perhaps someone who in 10.20 years reads what happened in Serbia's political history, but how can I tell you, these are not life topics that are interesting to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66767	Thank you, Dr. Martinovic. Right on the replica Milorad Mircic. Here's a colleague of Mircic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66768	It's nice for a fellow Martinovic to follow the SRS conferences, you never know what our people would say. There's something history can also serve as a lesson. Radicals Nikola Pasic and newly formed radicals did not fight. They had common ideology, common goals, and there's no reason to be so angry that we mentioned it in 2008 and you mentioned it, but we're just talking chronologically so that we don't forget what was the tactics and strategy of trying to break up the SRS. What you forgot to say in the meantime – we're talking about what's going on in real life as opposed to you. You are returning us to periods when the state of Serbia was led by Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and the rest and every day you repeat it. Maltenes and sparrows on the branch already know what your MPs will be talking to you about. When you don't have enough arguments, it's best to mention Gilas, and if Gilas isn't at that very moment, then, as you say, our Bastace and so on. So that's what's interested in Serbia? Don't worry about the fate of the SRS. People and citizens vote for those who are convincing, those who clearly present to them what reality is, and not those who, through marketing television and media, achieve certain popularity at a certain point. If it could have been so, then the beautiful Boris would have been for life. Past beauty, past all. After all, the citizens of Serbia do not vote for your programme, for your ideology because you do not have it. They're voting for Alexander Wolf. He's convincing. And what kind of people are you who are with him best says that meeting in “Spens” when he sent you to the fourth row so that he does not look at you? I don't mean you, Mr. Martinovic, but members of the government who are the most prominent. If they were successful, if the people loved them, he would be happy to see them in the front row, he would also be happy to portray them as successful people, people who enjoy trust, who have a reputation and who work for Serbia. No, but you're marketingly using his name, his efforts, his insistence, and that's what you're based on, and election results. But it goes and don't worry about it, but what's for the end, Mr. Martinovic, still follow the events in the SRS and read all the conferences, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66769	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The right to replica has Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66770	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Here, I'm really not mad at Mr. Martinovic, because how do you get mad at someone who says he's a donkey to himself? You know. Just because he tried to insult me, so he says I'm politically barren, when a man thinks about what it means on the other hand, does that mean he's politically fertile? You know, extremely fertile, so he's a little radical, a little advanced, who knows what's gonna happen in his head next? It would be good, Mr. Martinovic, if you told us now, how many political parties in your life and in your career have you changed? We haven't explored that yet, but you know that flying disease, there's a lot of it and a man once goes down that road, it goes downhill. Well, come on, say it yourself in time, so it won't be after, as your president says, rip out your diplomas. I expect your colleagues to work faster, because when you come to the wallpaper to take away the doctoral dissertation, the master's degree and to take away the diplomas, then it's too late. As far as politics is concerned, you didn't win the votes thanks to your successes. You've won thanks to lies. The first lie, that upon coming to power, you will review all the anti-constitutional and illegal agreements signed by the yellows for KIM. Well, you promised the office quick answers. Where's that office today? Well, you promised 100 billion investments. Well, promised channel to Thessaloniki. Well, there's nothing you didn't promise, you promised Mercedes it would be manufactured in Priboj. There's nothing you didn't promise. The biggest lie perhaps of all, you promised not to cut your pensions at any cost and you brought them to a poor level, to a miserable level. You have taken from those of whom you have no right. We've retired to 86% of the 2012 pension. Now, that's you. Thanks to lies and media manipulations, sit in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66771	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The right to replica has Dr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66772	I ask Nemanja Sarovic, I beat Nemanja Sarovic in the SRS. Shid, Ruma, the Old Pazs there were radicals in power. Let Nemanja Sarovic say, in which Belgrade municipality did he win the DS? He didn't win any, and he had far, far bigger party budgets than I had. But I don't want to deal with Nema Sarovic anymore, I don't think he's interested in anyone else's SRS anymore. Nemanja Sarovic says that I lied and that I have no results. Unlike Nemanje Sarovic, who has not brought any investors to Serbia, I have brought six investors and six factories to Rum, thanks to the support of Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbian government. Today, thousands of people come to Ruma every day to work in these factories, just a thousand people from Belgrade and Novi Sad, not counting the surrounding municipalities of Srem. (Alexander Seselj: What about the Khrtkovci? So, as far as the Khrtkovci are concerned, tell me, did the SNS make any problem with the proceedings against your father? Has the state of Serbia had any problem with that? Alexander Vukic himself said publicly on television -- it's not Vojislav Seselj's package so you can deliver it a little bit, and I'll give it back to you a little bit. Who protected three Serbian radicals from being delivered to The Hague tribunal for contempt of the court? Don't use it. As for the 2012 election results, you know very well why, then, the SRS, we then, did not cross the census. Because Vojislav Seselj has made a decision to change the presidential candidate and you know it very well, only you will not admit it to yourself. The SRS wouldn't win those elections, but it would cross the census and that's what Dragan Todorovic told you. Dragan Todorovic himself said Vojislav Seselj, I was present at that presidential college - well, Vojislave is doing the same thing that Slobodan Milosevic did, we attacked Slobodan Milosevic for Mira Markovic, and now you are running for president. Run for office. It's not your first time running from prison. He didn't listen to him. It is not a matter of whether I was supposed to be a presidential candidate, I had no chance of winning, nor any of the SRS had a chance to win the presidential elections in 2012, but we had a chance to cross the censorship and enter parliament, and the fact that we did not enter parliament is the fault of the president of the SRS. That's what I told him in 2016... Just laugh, I'm telling you this because I want to share some good experiences with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66773	Thank you. It's been way too long. (Alexander Martinovic: I said the same thing to Vojislav Seselj. I thank you. I really have to react to the time. Also, I have to react to the fact that we're breaking the Rules of Procedure, because we're so far away from the subject. I'd like a line in the O.R., please. I'm setting a five-minute break, so we can keep working. [[after breaks]] We can agree it's been five minutes. To Article 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Seselj. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66775	First, one of the biggest problems in our election campaign, which perhaps your tutors from the European Parliament and NGOs did not have as one of the priorities, is Radio Television of Serbia. At the time, since I see that we are very concerned here now with the retrospective political developments in Serbia, and at the time when the SNS was formed, then the opposition party was very present at RTS even though there was never any basis for it, since the party had not participated in the elections before and had absolutely no legitimacy at all, but it appeared regularly in all RTS shows, even of course in informative but also in political shows, duels and so on. Today, we have a situation, of course, that there is a fact that every ruling party has a dominant position in the media, that is, for all other parties, it has always been, but today the situation is really great in relation to the proportions, compared to the SNS and all the other parties together. So, the Radio Television of Serbia, which was supposed to be something like public service, whatever that means, is funded with a lot of money from the budget and has increased the subscription now so that they can set up their editorial policy instead of having representation and the right to all parliamentary parties on the key, as much as they have MPs in the Assembly. No, for the Serbian Radio Television, the news, what the advances were doing that day, and if they want to mention the opposition then mention some imaginary parties that do not exist or those who did not also go to the elections, they stole mandates and so on. Another major problem, perhaps it has nothing to do with the elections, for RTS Kosovo and Metohija is not Serbia, because they never put on a map Serbia's territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Does anyone see that as a problem? What are the three billion dinars and the subscription for? Please, if we talk about election conditions and the election process, it's one of the burning issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66776	Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66777	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest that this amendment be rejected primarily for reasons, what the colleague explained has nothing to do with what he suggested here in the amendment and, of course, because I agree with the argument given by the government. In Article 2. The bill is quite clear which activities are not allowed during the election campaign and what is not allowed to do by one official. As far as the medical examinations mentioned in this amendment are concerned, the action of free medical preventive examinations aimed at early diagnostics and the promotion of prevention, as the most effective way of caring for our country's own health, is conducted by the Ministry of Health in more than 300 health institutions. During this time, all citizens and those without health insurance can perform an ultrasound examination of the abdomen, perform a cardiological and ORL examination, conduct control of blood sugar levels, ophthalmological examinations and a series of other examinations from which they would single out mammography and control of marker tumors. The importance of these actions of the Ministry of Health is to improve public awareness of the importance of prevention because citizens have a positive impact on their health. The citizens' response is huge and I personally support these actions and I am grateful that they are organized and I will only mention that every third woman responds to mammographic examinations, and this review should be done once every two years between 50 and 69. This is the reason why 60% of cases in Serbia, which is revealed by breast cancer when the chances of healing are much less than in the initial stage of the disease, which is why we have 1,600 deaths per year in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66778	Thank you. The MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66779	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. So, the People's Messenger, not the Messenger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this article bans public officials from using public resources to promote political parties, as well as for various types of political activities. We intervened in this article by proposing that security and security and distribution of goods of general consumption be prohibited in the election campaign, which we repeatedly pointed to concrete examples from previous campaigns. This type of corruption and vote buying is a long-standing practice, inherited by the current regime from the previous regime. You have rejected this amendment because you say the proposal's solution is sufficiently accurate and does not require any precision proposed by the amendment. Does this reason mean that with this poor inherited practice, you will continue to buy and steal votes and mandates? We are sure that this will continue and because of a series of affairs and abuses in election campaigns we have proposed such an amendment solution. Then, often voters are also being blackmailed by survival in public enterprises, in local self-government. Namely, employees get orders for whom they will vote and unless they do so, or if they do not bring an empty ballot or picture to see clearly who they voted for, they remain without their post. Then, for all those who are employed for a certain time, the promise is that if they vote as they are told, they will receive permanent employment. That's what's absolutely illegal, and with that practice, it has to stop. The question is, will it be done with these changes? We don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66780	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66781	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about another draft law that will apply, namely to the regulation and improvement of the electoral process. These proposals contain everything discussed at government and opposition meetings. That part of the opposition had objections to the quality of the election process, but now, of course, they won't vote for it, just as they didn't come to discuss it in the tide. Instead, Bosko Obradovic bangs on the door and the Parliament windows and that with the flag of Serbia. But that's why after that, he doesn't mind his behavior quite normally walking into the Assembly building the next day and holding a press conference. It is nothing more than demeaning this institution and disdaining Serbian citizens. The others, his Alliance for Serbia, when Dragan Gilas sent them, set up conferences for journalists in the hall and literally produce affairs every day and lie to people. Everyone had the opportunity to participate in the creation of these legal solutions and we saw who got as, as much as and how involved. We offered correct co-operation, we participated in negotiations or talks between the opposition and the authorities, there were also members of the civil sector and the Faculty of Political Sciences and the Assembly. We also said that we would not accept everything at any cost, that we would not accept something that is not happening in other countries and that is not accepted in terms of how the electoral process is regulated. I'll remind you how DS, we all remember, ran a functional campaign. They even increased functional activities during the election campaign. It is simply impossible to compare with any campaign, nor with the campaign by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. That is exactly what the inconsistencies of the laws they themselves have passed. They didn't respect any laws. On the other hand, we respect, respect and respect the laws, but not only that, but we are even ready to change them along with them, and if they say very hypocritically, that the same laws they have passed will not be able to provide a good election process in Serbia. Of course, despite all the talks and negotiations, and despite the fact that these bill proposals are in front of us today, nothing is good enough for them, nothing is right for them, it is not enough to carry out the election process as they imagined. But it's only because they're actually looking for an alibi for their incompetence and for never having absolutely never had results with which to stand before Serbian citizens, of course unlike SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66782	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66783	Thank you. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing and we are going to adopt bill proposals that are now eliminating the possibility of illegal influences on voters. So it doesn't make much sense to accuse any word on the subject and point it at us. Where there is a outcome and this outcome is set before the judicial authorities, it makes sense to ask for such phenomena. And you know where there is such a outcome? Well, there is an example of work in Sapac, it exists in Sapac, and it is precisely on the case of the activist Together for Serbia, Nebojsa Zelenovic. So, this Gilas clan, it appeared, the news went to the whole country in 2016, the information it followed and the video, the audio footage that Dragan Gligoric, an activist of Nebojja Zelenovic, publicly offers money to people to vote for Nebojsa Zelenovic and that video exists now, everyone can hear it on YouTube. Here's what Gligorić says with the occasion of the people gathered, he says – well, people like this, you know that elections are going and we're interested here in Sapac, can you support Nebojsa Zelenović's current mayor. What can I offer you in this whole story? If everyone in every house who has you gets the one-time help the mayor gives himself, Zelenović gives from 5,000 to 7,000, and we need to know if there are more people in the house somewhere, six in the house, then there won't be 7,000 there will be more, there will be 11,000, and that's why I need a list of what's in the house so I don't get wrong, and I'll tell you the procedure in the mail you go to raise the money, and it wasn't everything he says, and it's still talking in whose name he's doing it, in Zelenović's name he does it. These two juices you have here, he says – that's what the municipality will do to you for free. Whoever doesn't have a certified health book, they'll get fri. It's an offer I can give you on behalf of Zelenovic and give him support. There's more to it, so I don't read everything to you right now. Trying to fence both Gligorić and Zelenović and talk – it's some mounted video, but what happens? The authenticity of the footage is established and Gligorić himself, who in the name of Zelenović, which is his words, offered money, bought the citizens, admitted it. So, to hear Serbia's citizens, he admitted this. The main public prosecutor's office in Sapac made a deal with him in principle, he admitted that he was offering money, he admitted to buying votes for Zelenovic and accepted that everything on his part would pay, paying 80,000 dinars. That's what he looked like and looks like where Zelenovic and other members of the Gilas clan are wondering.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66784	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those who dictated your amendments and additions to this law, Mr. Minister, didn't do it well, and all I think is malicious, they don't think well of you, then they would tell you among other things to write in this law to forbid officials from making false promises in the name of functions they perform. We suggest it through the amendment. You know, how many false promises people believed in and voted on. We've heard a lot here today, but I'll remind you of those sacks of voices when it was claimed that in the first round you were stolen and that you were going to ask for an election cancellation. In the second round at five o'clock, those from Brussels congratulated Nikolic on winning, and you forgot you were showing sacks of stolen votes. What happened to that? What happened to the 12 privatisations you started the campaign on? What happened to the methroom for which, remember, Aya Jung has a subway ticket, I just don't know where she'll be driving. So it's also a promise from the election campaign. Zero degree of tolerance for corruption. What's up with that? Every other day someone gets arrested, how is it possible that this many years no corruption has disappeared in Serbia? That's not it, your people are getting arrested. You know, Mr. Minister, you pick someone somewhere and they've been in your office for three, four years and you say, "Here, we're fighters, we arrested them." First, how is it possible that you chose like this, and secondly, how is it possible that you hadn't noticed for three, four years. It's a demagogy you deceive people with. What happened to the promise to the chip factory? What happened to the Mercedes bus that was supposed to be produced in Icarbus, and even the picture was shown, the circle was painted, the Mercedes sign, on a bus? What happened to the Quick Answers Office? All lies to lies. That should be banned in the election campaign. These are all promises related to the functions that officials perform. You know, if someone who doesn't have any state function promises to do fair expropriation for the way of Preljina-Pojate, it can be believed and it doesn't have to be trusted, but there's no state obligation, as I would tell you. If Zorana Mihajlovic says, from the minister's post that it will be done fairly, then we now come up with information on how unfair it is. The town municipality of Kruševac completed before the purpose of all the plots intended for this highway in 2015, although Article 117. The Cataster Act says that within 30 days, a change can be made before purpose, that's done, so four years ago, and why? So that those people in that part of the town of Kruševec would be paid for agricultural land that was much cheaper than what was like city land. So, you cheat wherever you get, which is why it was necessary in this law to ban yourself, to prevent it, to predict it as unauthorized that someone from the level of function could promise, to make false promises. Of course, Minister, you're not the resolute minister here. Maybe you're not getting along as well. You may have thought that you had been sent and that corruption on the agenda was about granting licences for refrigerators, or corruption about incentives in agriculture or corruption around the sale of agricultural land, and you would certainly have an answer there. This is still from another sphere, and you may have been one of those people who called these Europeans when they gave you orders, because we don't know exactly who they were issuing orders to, so you were wrong, as we just said these laws, you forgot something important they told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66786	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66787	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, I don't want to take too much of your time, but I just want to say a few things since there's been a direct call here. The coolant licenses are not issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, but issued by the local self-government and its competent department for urbanism. You know that, you did that job, I guess this was a lapus. On the other hand, I will only remind the public of everything that has been done in the past few years, 200 factories in the entire Serbian territory have been opened for the past five or six years. GDP growth several years consecutive – 3.5% higher. The wages, the profits, the net amount that it was five years ago, and what it is today. Jumped 30%, 40%. The minimum earnings that were 10 years ago, and how many today, almost twice, are from 17, 18, 19 to 31 now. It's all facts and I agree with you, only facts of any other matter. You're just as much an officer as I am, subject to this law. This is one of the few situations where you set yourself more limits. That wasn't everyone's government doing. I know you're going to die now, but because of the citizens, we have to say to ourselves, we're setting ourselves even more limits and we're going to win even more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66788	Don't tell the messenger it's a bitch, it's not nice. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66789	You ministers are a very nice man, but you haven't answered the questions I asked you. You didn't answer the question, what about the chip factory? What about Mercedes in Icarbus? What about 12 privatisations? What about those sacks of votes you allegedly found and they're missing somewhere? What about the methroom and the map Aja Jung has? What about the quick answer office? These are all specific questions. You answered one question that you knew the answer to. You know all these answers, but of course, it was better for you to talk about the average income immediately, these factories that came in, etc. That's nice. That's nice, Minister. But when it's so good, when we're so rich, when we have so much and everything, let's cheer up the people, so tell us we accept the SRS proposal, the lowest salary in Serbia can't be below 37,000,00 dinars, the lowest pension in Serbia can't be below 37,000,00 dinars, because the Statistics Office says that the consumer basket costs 37,000,00 dinars. Now, that's how you help the people, let go of the false promises, let go of the stories, let go of that statistics. You weren't there, some of the other ministers I've been telling, say, experts, economic experts, you're asking Minister Cynthia Malloy, they're telling us, that's what I've been telling him. You're asking him to give us the data that we want, not the data that they want from Statistics, to give us the data that we want, so we're going to figure out what the government is talking about now, so that we can see how much that would be...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66790	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66791	Dear Presidents and honourable MPs, I'll just have to say a few things for the public one more time. The fact is that a lot of people in Serbia still live hard, but we are doing our best to make that minimum profit, which you are talking about from 37,000,00 dinars, we reach very quickly and that is our goal and we will realize it. Don't have any doubt about why we're going forward all the time. We're doing our best from day to day and it's increased from 18.000,00, 19.000,000 to 32.000,00, but not just about this, but about all things, that we keep going forward, that we have bigger profits, that we have more infrastructure, more kilometers, more everything. Here, just for the end, for that subway. Belgrade, a few years ago, five, had a budget twice as small as it is today. They acquired the terms of work, of profit, of all other engagements to create money, so that they could make that subway, which everyone talked about. They were also talking about the highway to Chuck for 50 years, and today we've got him. Here, in a few days, this loop will be in front of the Obrenovac, so everything will be operational. They talked for 50 years about a highway connecting Nis to Bulgaria, so we have it today. That's all the facts and I totally agree. Facts, facts and facts, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66792	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66793	We're in a wedge, you're in a board. You guys on highways, you on corridors. We don't mind that, and we say it's nice that the state has the money to build highways, build corridors. God forbid you'll be able to build Polish roads as well. So everywhere you need to build a road network, we'll never tell you that's not good, but we're just saying something else. It's time for the people to start living better. Now that we have corridors, when we have highways, when we have expensive tolls, it's time for the people to start to feel better and we don't mind building the subway, Mr. Nedimovic, but it's not normal to have a ticket to the metro before the election. That's not normal. When money is provided, when it starts to build a project, then say it. Otherwise, the subway is the idea of the SRS that Vukic promoted as a candidate for the mayor of the SRS and we are not against it. But when it's so good in Serbia, we just say, come on, ministers, let the people start living better. A million people in Serbia live below the edge of existence. A million people and more than a million people live under the edge of poverty. We say, let the lowest salary be 37,000 dinars, that the lowest pension is 37,000 dinars, because it's the price of the lowest consumer basket. You say you're going there. You can't go to it, you have to go to the consumer basket, when you get to 37,000, the consumer basket will be 50, we say now, at this point, the consumer basket 37,000, so much must be the lowest salary, so much must be the lowest pension, all below that is social giving, all below that is an insult to the people, especially in the state of Serbia, in which no longer has to be saved, in the state of Serbia where NGOs pay their hats and hands, some hidden costs in the budget and so on. So we've been very specific all along about where the funds can be provided, and we're looking very specifically. Here, officials have said several times in the previous days that there can't be that much pay and pension. You say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66794	Thank you. Parliamentarians Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Oliver Papug. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66795	This is the draft law, i.e. a member of this amendment and addition, relating to the level of penalties. A little while ago, when I was speaking and drawing attention to the fact that there was no will, no mood or no courage, it simply must not be a comma, not a point to change, we here suggested that for those officials who, according to this amendment and the addition of the law, go deaf about these legal provisions, to increase the fine from 150,000 to 200,000, which would be completely understandable if the government had full capacity to stand behind these amendments and additions, in some way being more drastically fines so that officials would have to respect, but in this case you see that there is no goodwill, that the government simply does not accept any amendment and supplementation, so it was also when it comes to these penalties which, in some way, would be a greater reminder to those who would dare to break the provisions of this law. But simply, from all the amendments the SRS has made, no single amendment has come across at least one... to discuss it, and to say that we do not accept it because that amendment would spoil or affect the change of laws as the Government did not intend. This is where the fines are raised by 50,000 dinars. We think that if this punishment is already imposed that it is too small for those who break the laws, it would be much more cellistic, or more meaningful, to be these penalties drastic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66796	Thank you. You've spent time with your MPs' group and there's no time left for the MPs' group. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66797	Mr. Minister, not only in this central part of Serbia, the manipulation of votes by officials is both expressed in parliamentary and presidential elections in Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija. The office for Kosovo and Metohija through various projects across Kosovo and Metohija grants donations to Serbian authorities, i.e. representatives of Serbian authorities. In Kosovo's Pomoravlje, Mr. Minister, there is a major crime going on, it enters the scope of your work, and everything with money from Serbian citizens from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. Those who are not members of the SNS or do not want to comply with what Srdjan Mitrovica is doing, who is the president of the Municipal Council in Kosovo Pomoravlje, i.e. Gjilan, are forced to an exodus to pack, to leave their homes. Srdjan Mitrovic founded an Ice Fruts fruit cooperative and won 26m dinars from Serbia's budget. He took his sister-in-law, Velibor Tasic, brother of uncle Goran Cvetkovic, who is the director of the cooperative, brother of Aunt Srdjan Mitrovica, nowhere to show where the money is spent and which is why the members of the council and the president of the municipal body get so much money for their private business. Then, after that, establish, imagine, and "Organic Fruts" in Koretište, a new cooperative, where it also launders 14-27m dinars for the refrigerator and distillery. Then imagine the life ahead of the upcoming parliamentary elections, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Gojkovic, each of those honest people who live there when they know a mobster like this runs so much budget money.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66798	Thank you. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66799	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what it looks like in practice when officials abuse certain resources, it looks like this. Yesterday I spoke, Mr. Martinovic, you remember, about the abuse of minority rights and I cited examples. One official, dissatisfied with my discussion, got sick out of bed and came from Novi Sad to Belgrade in 20 minutes. That's almost impossible. That road is normally charged here in the National Assembly somewhere around 5,000 dinars, that's what the Novosadians know. If that's how it works in the campaign, there are abuses of officials and those who are not members of the government. I give you an example, and now I wonder if this official came by this most modern helicopter, by the helicopter we got, "Fire carriages", did he come by "MIG" or by any means of transportation when he was able to travel from Novi Sad in less than 20 minutes to the National Assembly? If he's teleported, I can't tell, but it's very suspicious. That costs 5,000 dinars. I suppose that the official did not travel at all from New Sad and if this is how the financial resources of this country are misused does not mean that only the ruling parties do so, this time it was an opposition representative who is otherwise honest, honest, etc. But, well, my God, he's lost it. Not once, I believe he's lost it in this term maybe 300 or 400 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66800	Thank you. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66801	Looks like you and Fabrizia tried to cheat. You've been passing the law for days here in the principle debate, and today you're talking again in detail about how these laws, based on these laws, are going to make even better election conditions, even cleaner campaigns, even in the best order. And then in Article 4, you say – this law will apply on 1 September 2020. So, who are you cheating on? You are passing the law in order to be as clean as possible, which will be in the spring and the law will apply from 1 September 2020. So it has absolutely nothing to do with these next elections, unless you listen to these from the EU, since this Tanya Fajon has already given an interview in one newspaper that will be on the table and that the topic of extending the deadline for holding elections will also be discussed. That's what we're afraid of, because, God forbid, if they make you do it, it means you're going to have to declare a state of emergency in the country. God forbid, far away, there will be a state of war, but it must be declared a state of emergency in order for the elections to be held after the deadline by the Constitution and by law guaranteed. It's just you smiling, believe me, whatever they threatened you, they ended up putting it as an ultimatum and you had to fulfill it. This is, this is some kind of prank to them or you didn't get a good translation or you wanted to see how they would react, the public needs to know, it's a lie that the advances pass a law on preventing corruption in order to be better conditions for the next election. The elections are due for spring, and the law has been applied since September of next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66802	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. On the 1st Amendment, a letter from the Prophet of Radet was submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66803	We have also submitted to this, as well as to the other laws, to say, double amendments. First of all, we suggested that each of these members be deleted in all laws, because we think it is inappropriate to pass laws in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that dictate some exhausted European officials. Then in this second part, we wrote amendments where we tried to in some way influence this to see how ready you are to do beyond what those who line you up whenever they come to Belgrade have dictated. The position of the SRS is that these changes are the format ordered by foreign mentors and that nothing fundamental changes will change. The attitude of the SRS is and we've been telling it for a long time, we can and must solve all political problems ourselves. We don't need tutors, we don't need foreign mentors. The problems of this kind should be solved in the National Assembly. They should be dealt with by the MPs as representatives of the people. We are not people who are under custody, we are not people who are deprived of their business ability, but who are healthy, we are real, we represent citizens and citizens expect us to solve all the problems, even some of the political problems that have arisen because what they say from the government is that this part of the pro-European opposition does not come to the sessions because it is a warrant from the West. Is that true, but what are you doing in that west? What are you listening to? No matter how humble you are, your pressures will be bigger and that's the problem not just for you, that's the problem for the state. Raise your head once, say, we will not be commanded. We're business, we're capable, we're MPs, we're government, we're ministers, we're president of the state, we're officials, we're gonna solve our own problems, not who says it, and you're like dolls. As anyone calls you, you go, where they call you, you leave, it's really beneath each level. That offends intelligence. I don't know how you feel? Believe me, some of you I know well, some of you just from sight, and I believe that some of those I know very well feel very uncomfortable that they have to act like one, and I assume that you who I know less are morally enough to feel just as bad about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66804	Make a deal, when you're not in the O.R., then the deputy. He can't, you were talking. I'll just give you instructions. Since you said we've known each other for a long time, then we've known each other a long time. You've been an MP for a long time. So that must be emphasized. You were the one who used the time when he wasn't in the O.R. to use the time of the MP who was authorized to do this. It's nothing new. On the 1st amendment, with a correction, MP Sreto Peric submitted. According to the Rules of Procedure, I have to explain. ) Well, I'll give you by the Rules of Procedure the word, but the thing is completely clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66805	The thing isn't clean. I'm talking about Article 27. At no point did I say that I was using the time of the parliamentary group, or the time of the authorised representative. The authorised representative for this point is Alexander Seselj. The man's sitting in the O.R. But don't sit down, please, I didn't say I was using time. You were supposed to say - two minutes, it's past time. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66806	I'm sorry, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66807	Not like this. Wait till I'm done. This really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66808	I know it doesn't make much sense, but it doesn't make any sense when I say it in the microphone -- your group has wasted their time, and then you're wasting whose time? And the Messenger Seselj wasn't in the O.R. I've got a huge dioptria, but Alexander Seselj couldn't get past me at all. But this is such a bullshit fight, totally lame. You didn't pay attention, you made a mistake, what to do. No, you didn't pay attention. You have to admit a mistake. The size is that each of us admits our own mistake once in a while. All right. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66809	These four legislative proposals that we are discussing today in particular are the result of an activity that is little and against the interest of the Republic of Serbia, and then, as you say, your partners recommended that you sort these things out. I have to figure out that there are a number of former regime members and you, there's a number out there on the street, they'd like an illegal way to get their hands on the authorities, and I find it very interesting. Mr. Martinovic was never a member of the Democratic Party, but I find it interesting when DS or the former regime attacks those who are today senior state officials, as they did. That's very nice of me to hear. What do we have today as a consequence? We have reason to believe that this previous law has not yet entered into force, or that it does not apply, excuse me, it has entered into force eight days from the day of publication. It was adopted here at the National Assembly on 29 May, and will apply from 1 September 2020. We already have amendments and additions to that law. True, Article 20, paragraphs 2 and 2. From 21 to 25 of the law relating to the establishment of the agency, these members entered earlier, due to the procedures necessary to resolve this. How can it be your partners, so it's about like this Fredericka Mogerini, and she was someone's partner and she asked the Serbian government to meet all the conditions, and only one condition -- the community of KIM municipalities, where she was a majority Serb animal, they didn't do it. It was -- it'll come true when we do that. Oh, and what they're telling you right now, you're trying to do, and we support you here, wherever you're trying to cheat... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66810	Thank you. Time. By the way, Alexander Seselj has his 12 minutes. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Plus two minutes. There's no plus, come on, you said you were wasting my time. My time can't be spent at all. We all agreed on that. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66811	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled this amendment to Article 2. A bill on the agenda and I propose to the National Assembly that this amendment be adopted. However, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, I think it should be abolished. She failed to meet her goals and gave no results. Ladies and gentlemen, there's the Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Secretary, I asked a parliamentary question six months ago regarding your portfolio, but I'm not getting an answer at all, and it's about unprecedented corruption. I asked the question -- how much did Serbia have state agricultural land in 2001 and how much is it now? Who, how much did he rent state agricultural land? What tycoons took thousands of acres of state agricultural land? What Croats in Vojvodina bought thousands and thousands of hectares? What are those criminals who didn't pay the rent of state agricultural land? Mr. Minister, today I urinated through the President of the National Assembly to give me an answer to the following questions: how many state agricultural land were there in 2001, when the yellow ones came to power? How much state agricultural land is today? What criminals hired, and they don't pay the rent, depends on the charge of the budget, and billions are at stake, and criminals don't pay? And what do we need from the Anti-Corruption Agency when it hasn't moved in any part to prevent corruption? On the other hand... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66812	Thank you. After you say I'm not a Democrats, I gave you 16 seconds more. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, who is not currently with us. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66813	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66814	The Minister accepts this amendment. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will go to these elections under their terms, that is certainly, improved their terms. They won't even come out on their own terms. No matter how much we improve it, no matter how many our officials humiliate me, they forget that party officials and that their responsibility to the citizens is greater because they want to prove they're better than we are. As an opposition, I've always asked for early elections. Even then we asked for choices when we knew we were weaker. We were always looking for an election before the time. They don't want the election before the time, they want the election after the time. They're calling for a state of emergency. They would, for them democracy is a power without a choice. For us democracy is power after the election. Our principle is that the government in Serbia is elected by millions. The government in Serbia is being elected by millions. They would like the government in Serbia to choose millionaires, i.e. millionaires who weigh 619m euros in nature of their will, past the will of citizens, citizens, millions of citizens, to make them read "Today", to read "Times", to read NIN, to watch N1, to watch Nova S and force them to vote in favour of the union of failures, fraud and mutibaric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66816	Thank you. The second amendment was submitted by Dubravko Bojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66817	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I began the story of the most drastic forms of corruption in our society, I mentioned the robbery privatisations carried out by those who carried out the economic genocide of Serbia, but the operation has not yet been completed. Privatisation continues and the same trend continues today. I will give an example of the company "Development and Engineering" Pančevo, whose building is about 4.5 thousand square meters of business space and which has been waiting for privatisation for nearly 20 years. What do you think is waiting? What's the Privatisation Agency doing? What does the Anti-Corruption Agency do? One of the most pronounced forms of corruption in our society are public procurement, but as next week we have a bill on public procurement I will not talk about it today. Here I would say a few sentences about healthcare corruption, where money is given for certain health services, as well as for shortening the waiting list for certain operations, then that a lot of doctors work in the morning at state clinics, and in the afternoon they direct patients to private, mostly their clinics. There were examples that in some hospitals, i.e. clinics, they were declared invalid operating rooms for their doctors to operate in countries in the region, Podgorica, Skopje, Banjaluci, etc. I don't know if I have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66818	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Please, if you'd like a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66819	And in this proposal when it comes to the Agency, we Serbian radicals insist that as much as possible we stick to the reality that is only about holding elections and affecting potential voters. Here is a much bigger problem how to root out that evil that was introduced by more DS and its coalition partners, which is that the unfortunate ones, I must say, are packages that contain some food products, which are pounds of flour, kilograms of salt, liter of oil, and there are these dishes, depending on the imagination and creativity of those who make up these packages of everything and everything. But the overall value relative to the voter's real value is completely negligible and it does something no one wants in Serbia. It literally makes a difference when it comes to expressing the will of the citizens. The citizens are brought to the door, the citizens are bound by it, these emissaries are followed and, not to say, we all know what order it is. Anyone who accepts this package thinks – here, it is sincere well-intentioned help. But it turns later literally into something no one wants, and these are problems with those who come to vote, because they say – we gave the package, and after the package comes, we already talked about it, money. It is already known, it is already said in Vojvodina that some political parties, not in this case when I speak specifically, are not SNS, but their coalition partner, but give their representatives, emissaries on certain local committees of money for so-called. Safe voices.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66820	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The People's MP Alexander Seselj submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66821	It is incomprehensible that we are talking about the Anti-Corruption Agency, and next to us is a huge scandal just about corruption. So recently, what the SRS warned, the Serbian government concluded a commercial contract with Bechtel-Enka for the construction of the Moravian Corridor, for a price that would be more than 800m euros, although there was an offer several years ago, and an estimate by Chinese companies that all this was worth about 500m euros. So, given what the practice of the Bechtel company that was doing here in the region, also in these scandals, where some ministers have resigned, I speak here in this region, it is the most normal thing to do in Serbia. So, the direct contract and the pressure of the US embassy to close that contract with the company right now. The highway "Milos Veliki", which the president of Serbia opened at 17 hours live on television, was built by a Chinese company that took over Serbian subcontractors, how is it possible that the same company cannot now operate the Moravski Corridor, but has to come to Bechtel, which, given the estimates, is 300m euros more expensive? How is that possible? Why, when the public interest has already been established, did the call published in the daily newspaper "Politics" represent a personal map of "Bechtela"? So it was written that only "Bechtel" on it could pass. Is that normal? Is the scandal of corruption something that the agency and the Assembly and the Government and even our own interested public should be concerned about? Three million euros. Aleksandar Vukic said the yellows stole 40m euros on the Ljig-Preljin Highway, and now we see Zorana Mihajlovic and her ministry are paying a racket to the US Embassy in a major corruption scandal. So 300m euros in money from Serbian citizens is given as a racket to the US Embassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66822	The 2nd amendment was submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66823	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment we have submitted refers to the so-called a functional campaign, which is how it is managed through certain promotional activities of functioners in the period of election campaigns such as factory openings, paved streets and so on, and we talked about it many times. The question, however, is how will the agency, or how will the agency prevent the purchase of votes, then the mandate, because that is exactly what serious corruption is in? And the question that we've asked multiple times is, why are there agencies like this because we're against government agencies and we think that the competent ministries should deal with the issues that have been transferred to the agencies? So far, the practice has shown that the greater the number of these agencies that corruption in society is growing and greater and the main corruption in each society comes precisely from authorities. When would the Anti-Corruption Agency ask you – when did this agency publicly condemn one of the high-ranking state officials for various corrupt activities? We, as far as we know, never and obviously will never judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66824	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66825	We are talking about amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and we are asking first of all about the public – how is it possible to implement this law, how is it possible to fight corruption in the spirit of this law that the Agency can initiate proceedings against officials when the director of this agency is a function of the ruling party? You keep saying it's an independent body, putting experts on the forehead of such bodies. No, Dragan Sikimic is a member of the ruling party, a man who was president of the municipal election commission as a member of the party, a member, I think, and RIK on behalf of the party and now will expect someone who is a member and official of the ruling party, SNS, to initiate proceedings against Alexander Vukic because at half four, Vukic will open up some time as president of the state, and in four and ten, in the same suit and with the same tie will address the people, in the campaign, as president of the party. We don't blame it, we tell you it's hypocritical what you want to impose, and that's what it's all about. You will bring these people who will participate in the opening of something there and these people will stay in the same place, just to wait for Vukic to appear in another function, and he as a protected person will come with both the light and the cars and the security, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66826	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanovic, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. They're not here. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Seselj. You want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66827	First of all, we heard this news today that these main mediators were about to introduce democracy in Serbia, they said today that the government had done nothing that it had promised at these meetings, seminars, where you had already met, with these parts of the pro-Western opposition, etc. So she did not meet most of the election obligations, according to Tanja Fajon and Vladimir Bilchik, who are in charge of the dialogue here today. I think it would be best then, since you haven't satisfied the ones you should have, that we're pulling all of this now, that we're not discussing this, because the main reason and the only reason, is why it's all on the agenda today and why it's suddenly become so popular in Serbia, because there's obvious pressure from abroad to talk about it, and nothing else. Except that it is humiliating to be guided and lectured, primarily by former MEPs, but also by these people, therefore bureaucrats from Brussels, it is humiliating that, by accepting what they have told you, you have admitted that there is no democracy, there is no free choice in Serbia, there is nothing they have insisted on and it can't be justified. You accepted with these proposals that corruption was allowed before that, that was allowed, party employment, public resources for the purposes of the election campaign, etc. We've heard negative estimates, so you haven't done what you wanted, let's now pull this out and deal with the National Assembly's real problems and laws that Serbia needs, not those that came from the embassy and NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66828	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66829	Thank you. The only thing I didn't understand was what amendment we're talking about, because the promoter isn't a single word about a particular amendment, but, okay. Parliament is here to talk more widely. Perhaps in the context of an amendment debate we should discuss a political situation in our country, let's say in parliament. Why not? But that's not the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. So I want to discuss this amendment of his, or what he said in the context of his amendment's reasoning, and it is said, of course, a series of false allegations. The Serbian Progressive Party does nothing under any pressure – we do not threaten the pot to pressure us, so that we cook something, or we do not cook. What the SNS has done and what it does in these few months is that we have shown good will, unlike those who falsely boycott the work of parliament, I say falsely, because they come to parliament, as you have heard and seen, submit amendments, and what is the submission of amendments rather than active work in parliament? What nonsense it is, he says – I boycott the work, and I submit the amendments. So, she reads the laws, she endures the amendments, she criticises them, she just hates him to come to the O.R. and say something orally. I've never heard that the boycott of parliament is in oral exposure, and everything else I'm going to do, I'm going to come and get paid, I'm going to propose an addition to the agenda. We are all witnesses here, that at the beginning of each session we have about 30 additions to the agenda of MPs who did not come just to explain the additions to the agenda. So they're totally actively involved in the work and here in the tide, because they're asking us to vote and not vote on the additions to the agenda. Then they propose amendments to all the laws. So they came before or did not come, which is the right of an apostle. We do not have such regulations as in Slovenia that you have to give a written explanation and that the commission decides whether you are justifiable or not rightly absent from parliament, which is what the EU Member State has in its parliament and I think we should think about not playing the team hate me to come and now a little boycott, now I am not boycotting, but that part of it is well arranged and it is waiting for us after the election. So we've shown good will to improve electoral conditions. Just to remind you, these laws, therefore, electoral conditions, this is what was written – in 2012, it was brought by DS and their coalition partners, more or less know which they are and based on these electoral conditions that Tomislav Nikolic won and became president of the state, and then SNS in the first subsequent snap elections. Now, what they see as something to help them change, supplement certain laws, we think they will not, and that is why the size within us is that we have amended and amended those laws, because Serbian citizens will vote in favour of the programme that we will improve their ordinary daily life from 2020 to 2024, 2025. They are only interested, and this is what we do, those who found it as some reason why they would not go to the polls, and we all know that they are very aware of their poor political rating among Serbian citizens and that they are in advance ashamed of how few votes they will receive from Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens do not eat the boycott of the election. They don't care at all, believe me. According to all the analyses and polls, they are not at all interested in who thinks to exclude themselves from the political process over the next four years, and who will actively participate in the work of parliament and Serbian citizens will go to elections and vote for electoral not laws and not changes and additions, but for election promises and whether you have fulfilled something in these previous four years or not. That's what we all know, we've been doing politics for a long time. Let me also refer to the fact that you have quoted individual MEPs who are involved here and have shown good will. Remember, a few months ago, those who allegedly boycott parliament's work said they wanted a dialogue, first with us. Then they said they didn't want to come with us, if it wasn't for the MEPs, then the MEPs came to help. If it's hard for them to sit with us at the table, come on and they'll be there, we don't mind. It's one step forward, let them sit down, let them do something, let them help us in this general progress in democratic processes and electoral conditions. But it's not true what we heard at the press conference today. When you look at a little bit of how it works in Brussels, they do it hard, bureaucratically, and they conclude the progress list on December 6th. There are only some tables, some notes and some of them -- we have to finish the job six, no matter what we get 13 into Serbia, and life goes on, we do. We're just discussing these laws right now, and we're probably going to vote tomorrow, and they're done with 6. He says: They have done nothing, but it is not true. We are therefore slightly different, and we are a table of what has been done with today's day, although we could tomorrow morning, with today's day and over ninety-something percent of what we agreed on on the first round, on the second round, our parliament, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, along with the OSCE Office in charge of such issues, we have concluded. I have no intention of arguing with Tanya Fajon, nor with Mr Bilček, about why they end on December 6th, pack suitcases and no longer look back at it, but only to get a table that the 12th is over 90 percent of the stuff. But to do statistics, the point is that Dragan Gilas, who spent his whole life devoted to the media, devoted to analysis, surveying, and I don't know what, knows well at this point that his policy, policy of destruction, boycott, chaos that we saw here last week, hitting the flag of the Republic of Serbia on the door of parliament and in the window, what savagery we saw here last weekend in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the one after spin, like we shouldn't believe Maja Gojkovic and the directorial media, so I didn't watch the videos from the director's media, I was watching these videos here which we have cameras from a few months ago outside the door and saw what Bosko Obradović, the right hand of Dragan Gilas, worked with a national flag. People gave their lives to stand in front of this flag. The army thinks the biggest defeat is when they take their flag and you take it from somewhere. So, the national symbol and Serbia's pride have been used to hit the door of this parliament and that's the point. They know that such a policy brings a few percent. They don't know after the election how to explain that they're with that policy, with those lies they told about us from the SNS, most of all about us. They think they're gonna do something about it if they get some votes. So, on impact, it's just Alexander Wolfie and us on the road he hangs, he hangs. They know they don't know how to explain the 5% they're going to get, so maybe I've bought too many. That's the point. It's not the essence of this statistic -- we've made 6% of the demands, 10%, but the point is that when they realized that we had accepted the dialogue, they gave up and said we won't. So they decided to have breakfast with representatives of the European Parliament, that it would be more acceptable for them to talk to someone from abroad, not to talk to their colleagues in parliament. Maybe they don't have anything to say and I accept that as something that's probably something. I'm saying, we're gonna figure it out tomorrow, and we can be happy. This is all we do, we are doing it for the citizens of Serbia who will decide whether to go to the elections or not. Find out who they're going to vote for, the parties they're going to go out for. Bosko Obradovic, Gilas and others will be able to deal with other affairs after the election. They will not be in Serbia's political life for four years, at least not at the republic's level. They may be developing jobs, as we've seen in those photos, with a variety of drug dealers, who are legally convicted. So they can't say right now that I'm making something up, we have photos, we have judicial judgments and they're committed to this production of this branch of pharmaceuticals called marijuana growing, which has been proven these days. To continue to insult investigators who capture and arrest drug dealers, such as the work of Inspector Papic, who is now on the run by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and all those behind their flag, not behind the flag of the Republic of Serbia, and happily ever after. We will see you in 2025 in some elections, so if someone remembers them in 2025, welcome to the elections in some new phase of Serbia, when Serbian citizens will only appreciate whether they have bigger salaries, where their children are educated, what education they will not be interested in whether Bosko Obradovic, how many of us women in his term, this four-year-old, have managed to strike, nor will they be interested in how much money Dragan Djilas lost on failed jobs. They won't care, they won't even remember, because some new young unsuspecting people will come. Their policy, the policy of failure, and I say, I am going back to your beginning of the presentation of statistics as far as anyone has fulfilled something, that does not interest the citizens of Serbia at all. We are proud to go to the round table tomorrow to give everyone who is interested in our list which we have equally fulfilled statistics and to say – we have fulfilled everything we have agreed, not what someone has pressured us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66830	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. You want a replica? Alexander Seselj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66831	It may not have been clear enough what I said earlier, but the bottom line is that we have warned from 2016 on the situation in the National Assembly, where we have held meetings by emergency procedure, a united debate at all possible points, and you remembered that you only remember to change when the warnings from the National Convention for Co-operation with the EU arrived, and so on this case. So, you don't care about improving electoral conditions and the electoral process, but you care about someone from Brussels from NGOs who dress brightly and in Serbia doesn't get angry and that you wouldn't accidentally lose their support. It's the essence of all this. If you were to remember calling any party, which is not in the ruling majority, for dialogue, if it hadn't been for Soros to do so through his branch in Belgrade, the Open Society Fund at the Faculty of Political Sciences this summer? You'd still keep telling your story and none of it would have happened. If you cared about election conditions, you would bring a new Rules of Procedure back in 2016, you would discuss all the anomalies of our electoral process, there are many, but not, but only when a dictatorship has arrived from abroad through NGOs that are only their speakers in Serbia. When the Europarliamentaries started coming to teach here, then you remembered that something was wrong, so you said yourself earlier, that you're doing all this now, that you're doing to them now. That was your construction from a moment ago. So this was not necessary to do and not because of the citizens of Serbia, but because of your support from abroad that you will not lose. We've seen today that they don't want to support you and that they said you didn't keep what you promised, so I advise you to pull this off and not talk about these things anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66832	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66833	They say you can't hear each other, the MPs complain, but I've heard you and understood you. You're right about working in parliament, mostly. We had to do this before, that's where we all agreed, and the European Commission's report was sharp, unfavourable for us. Anyone who wishes well for this Parliament and this state, and doesn't see anything terrible in those criticisms, would do the same thing that we did and correct the work that concerns the work itself here in parliament. Yes, you've criticized us. They proposed hundreds and hundreds of pointless additions to the agenda. They're nicer to them, so there's no criticism about it, but good. It's fixed, you're right, it could have been much, much sooner to correct. There was no good will from anyone. As for these improvements in electoral conditions and improvements. To tell you the truth, the SNS election terms brought by Gilas and his team in 2012, they didn't mind, and I'm telling you that. Serbian citizens, when they go to the polls, vote for someone's election programme and vote often against something. They voted against Boris Tadic and his lack of politics, because if someone says that every day is politics, every morning I wake up with Severin, then the citizens say something is not normal in that policy and they vote for someone who specifically proposes and promises something. Serbian citizens, under the worst, possibly possible conditions, are now said to have elected Tomislav Nikolic and voted for Alexander Vukic and SNS under these conditions. Well, we didn't mind that, so we know that people vote for something else, not votes for a point and a point in improving electoral conditions. Well, it's just some political amateur might think they're voting for it. That's not a problem, here's a chance, if they want to have two months of campaign before we do, before we do have an election campaign, so they can run and promise everything and then let us go and beat them again, and then we can take them down, so they don't know what they're called. That's what's gonna happen to them. It's the essence of their so-called boycott in a few months. Well, that's the point, so they have to hide. It's like, when you court a girl, a girl doesn't smell you two percent, and he says, well, she's ugly. Well, that's it, so they won't go to the polls and admit their political defeat, their political defeat. And they know it. You mean Vukadinovic? No, he'll make the election. So, the citizens of Serbia, under the conditions of 2012 voted against Boris Tadic, against hopelessness and meaningless politics, against thieving and everything else we saw in the previous period. They voted for the SNS, voted for Alexander Vukic, voted for the new president of the state. On the same terms we went out in 2016. Under the same conditions, Alexander Vucic won, and behind him was the former Jankovic, who will remember at all who was the star of the month, the star of the political not knowing, the NBA League. It was Sasa Jankovic, we can't remember his name. Under the same conditions they say are simply unbearable. Well, we accepted that, went out and finished the thing. Win over 50% of Alexander Vukic and those in the tracks, where everyone admired, bravo, this one won 12%, 13% of some votes, bravo. Now, that's a thinking noun for them, because they're around censorship, something. They have to fight a lot, but not to fight war, against the flag of the state, against the coat of arms, against the Republic of Serbia and all that we, who love our country, think about Serbia, but to fight the programmes, and I have not heard a single programme, except that Jeremic, Djilas and Bosko Obradovic want to recognise an independent Kosovo. Well, that's, like, one attitude like that, but we can't hear it. That's why they won't come here, because there's something to talk about, something here you have to represent, and they can't come here right, clear and loud and say it. So against the military, we've heard that, against progress in the work of our dedicated industry, it bothers them. Well, now they work for competition in the environment. It bothers them. They're bothered by the fight against crime and corruption, they're bothered by the fight against the drug mob, so they attacked this inspector because he arrested Gilas' cousin, this Dabovic, the drug dealer, because he got into the car because he did? He got in the car, broke through the glass to get him out to bring him in. So, the police doing their job fairly bothers them. There are some frameworks of their programme, but if they want to, if they hate writing, I'll follow their actions, so I'll help them, I'll make it say that Serbian citizens can do it in writing, like, some pamphlet to read. That's what their boycott is all about, because you have to say something in the election, so you can't yell "whoa Vukic", which "whoa Vukic", so over 50% of Serbia says Vucic is doing well. And it's doing well, and as long as you trust the citizens of Serbia, it means you're doing well. I don't care what anyone thinks outside of this country, about us and about our policy, I guess the most important thing is what the citizens of Serbia think. I can tell you that everyone in the region, that's the biggest problem, sees Vukic as a role model both politically and economically, whatever you want. That is the problem, which is a strong economic political Serbia, has now become a role model for others, is the essence. And what Gilas is going to do, what Bosko Obradovic is going to do, what is going to happen to a few of them who are living off his past, those respected colleagues from the opposition SRS, are not going to touch us. We are only interested in what the citizens of Serbia think about what we are doing in parliament and whether they agree that these laws should be improved or disagreed. They agree, they say, it's good for all of us to adopt these changes and complements and go to elections, because we're really not afraid of changing and supplementing any single law. Let them ask for more of what they want us to do, we'll beat them. That way we'll beat them so they won't be well for the next four years. I guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66834	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Right on the replica of Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66835	I think that Mrs Gojkovic, with many legitimacy, can talk about the electoral conditions of 2012 because she also participated on the side of the government at the time, so in the second round of the coalition she supported, or a list that Mrs Gojkovic supported the then Serbian president, and as far as she can with full legitimacy, she can say that. The problem is much already because this all shows the independence of the ruling majority because if there were indeed problems it should have been the initiative of the ruling party, that is, the largest party in the Serbian parliament, to change all this, and not only when external-political pressure on this government was evident. You've made a big transformation since first – I'm not giving anything to anyone, I'm not going to fill anything. Like Wolfie used to say, not five million of them. Until then, I will fill them with whatever they will and whatever they say, only let them say what they will. So that's the point, that's for less than a year. Meanwhile, there have been pressures from the NGO sector, those who control foreigners in Serbia who act here as foreign agents and some politicians from the European Parliament, and what should be scandalous, at least to us, is that we are led by some who are formerly served MPs. That tells you how they see us. They send us former servants of the European Parliament. It is our level, and we are receiving them here and still thought it was a good move, that it is a move that shows that we are democratic, tolerated, we respect the EU and nowhere can be received in such a way as can be accepted in Serbia. That's scandalous. That's the point, and that's the main problem with all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66836	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Nemanja Radojevic and Ljupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would say, first of all, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, is that the penalties you provide for violating the Anti-Corruption Act are more than symbolic. If we compare this with some other laws, you will see that there are far fewer penalties for traffic offences than for government officials who bribe voters, who abuse public funds and do things that should be incomparably, incomparably punished. You know, Mr. Marinkovic, that at the time the representatives of the party of the regime shared these stoves in wood, shared the "Smederets". So one such stove, and they were divided by dozens and hundreds, costs more than the amount prescribed by this law. We have just heard from representatives of the ruling coalition, they say -- yes, the pate is divided, the oil is divided, the flour is divided, but we are not just winning because of it. And that shows how many representatives of the regime are today as we discuss this boast, and the boast is precisely because of these ridiculous penalties that you are proposing. Until today, Serbia has had laws. Here is no question of the law, here is a question of the lack of political will to enforce the laws. So, as long as you're ready to step on all the institutions of the state, from the university, through the courts, the prosecution, until then everything in the law is exactly what it's going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66838	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66839	I think the essence of this whole story is what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic said. She basically said what was real, what was going on. There were legal provisions under which we all had to go evenly and equally to the elections. A group appeared, with the support of the International Community, or the European Parliament, and then the government decided to give it to them. There's only one small problem, something I didn't understand, what is it possible to give legal or constitutional rights to someone and take away someone? If you give logic is that there is symmetry and seduction. Not to mention why I cannot personally understand why it was necessary for representatives of the European Parliament to come in to give in to the ruling coalition or government, and then villages for a joint table to negotiate amendments and amendments to the law. The confusion of me is greater by the fact that the president of the state, the president of the SNS, announced the other day to the public that when those from the West speak to him about China, he openly says to them: "Let's shut up! Quiet there. “ Closed, a quote to say. It is simply confusing that the president of such a party does not have so much authority on his first associates that they also tell those members of the European Parliament to say, "Come on silence there, you heard well, silence! “ Closed quote. It's simply unclear how someone is in power. So while they were in DOS, they said that members of the national minorities, I don't mean Djordje Vukadinovic here, that they had greater rights because they gave it to him. How can this be given a greater right or taken away by what is guaranteed by the Constitution and by law? Well, I guess we're all equal in front of the law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66840	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66841	The Anti-Corruption Agency and its director, this Dragan Sikimic, is his name Verice... They are absolutely not competent to implement these amendments to the laws that you now propose, by order of your mentors, these failed politicians from the European Union, one is even a good acquaintance Marijana Risticevic, this Kukan was, right? So as far as this change of law is concerned, we think it is indeed one big farce, because on the previous case, you were not a colleague of Marinkovic in Kosovo Pomoravlje, and how there in the sacred Serbian country, where unfortunately the occupation by the Cypriot terrorists and NATO pact Serbs who are SNS officials, Mr. Minister, abuse the resources that have the money from the Republika Srpska budget. From Gjilan and this Srdjan Mitrovic, I will move to Novo Brdo, which is close, so the municipality in Kosovo Pomoravlje, is there the bright and clothes of the Ivanovic brothers. The president of Novo Brdo municipality, Svetislav Ivanovic, also came up with an idea, such as that of his Gjilan neighbour, that the money of the citizens of Serbia from the budget, so from the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, besides, they also seek 2m euros, threem euros, to establish the Voćarska cooperative "Organik- frut" and thus launder money. Neither is anyone who has seen the freezers, nor is anyone who has seen the cooperative, and the people who live there say that some members of their families use other resources, are employed at other jobs, are members of the congregation and newly formed cooperatives and receive direct money, while other people there do not have bread to eat, you watch on television those poor families with more children, they are rich, rich. And how will Sikimici and the Anti-Corruption Agency prevent them from buying votes, harassing these people and giving them orders for whom they will vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66842	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66843	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, abuse of national minorities isn't the only thing our parliamentary group wanted to prevent. We tried to stop and cross. Our proposal is not to ban the transition of MPs from one party to another, it is not necessarily after the election from one party to another, but we have asked to specify the conditions under which it can be done, so we have asked that anyone who wants to leave one parliamentary group, to move to another party or another parliamentary group, must collect 15,000 certified signatures from notaries, how much votes for his mandate to prove that he still has the support of 15,000 of his voters, rather than that the voter's voter's support, who went through the elections to transfer 15,000 voters to parties, even who have not been registered and have not participated in the elections since 2016. That's what Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic did, it's not moral, it's only moral misery, and then they talk about stealing votes. Well, they're the biggest thieves in the matter of stealing votes. Counted votes given to the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina, Marinika Tepic bears as a dowry, as if that Chobano, or I don't know what his name was, left her 15,000 votes, and then says, "Now I take 15,000 votes received by the Social Democrats League and carries it to Sasa Jankovic, and then carries it to Zoran Zivkovic, and then carries it to Dragan Djilas. We want to be allowed to change the game, but it has to verify 15,000 votes, or signatures, and thus prove it's worth 15,000 votes again, what it's worth. We repeat again, we have no problem with millions of voters, but with millionaires Gilas, Solak and their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66844	Thank you. The word has Dr Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66845	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, respected MPs, proposed amendments and additions, we have an improvement in the electoral process. The key is the greater responsibility of participants, as well as the accuracy of the terms of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We also see how they treat this process, as well as what they do every day. We witness the continuity, the fabrication of lies and the notorious lies of the opposition's actions and the outpouring of hate. They don't care about the truth. They got caught up in their own lies, but it doesn't go away after they deny themselves. They would like to banish everything they did by 2012, those who devastated Serbia. Today, they are not in line with the electoral conditions that they brought themselves while they were in power until 2012. However, they do not have much interest in all of this because they know how many votes they would receive. They'd like to come to power without a choice. Do we know what they stand for today? Citizens understand what they do well, and so their policy has been rejected. They are bothered by what is done and built in Serbia. It bothers them that we have surpluses in our budget, third year in a row, higher wages and pensions. This reflects the impotence of the policy they are leading, as well as the values they stand for. Serbian citizens want peace, stability, economic progress, and we will continue to work, make greater economic growth and increase the profits for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66846	Thank you, Dr. Ljubic. Ljiljana Malusic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66847	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, of the 474 representatives of the Anti-Corruption and Prosecution Agency have rejected more than half. He works for the Anti-Corruption Agency, works, works well. Since 2018, listen, citizens have given the Agency a total of 577 performances, out of the 508 performances that are in the Agency's jurisdiction, 474 proceedings have been completed. In 2018, 105 previous verifications and a total of 305 infringement procedures of the Agency's Act for failing to submit a notice of participation in public procurement proceedings were initiated two, due to the untimely submission of the report on entry into office of 143, due to the untimely submission of the report at the end of the function of 110, due to the untimely submission of the report of substantial changes in assets and revenues during the period of office of 36, due to the untimely submission of the report on substantial changes in assets and revenues within the appropriate period following its termination of one, due to the cumulative violation of the provisions of the Act on the Agency relating to the untimely submission of the report on the conduct of functions and the disappearance of functions of one. At the republican level, 186 procedures were initiated, at a local level of 116 procedures. A total of 186 cases were initiated at the republic's level, including one against the minister, 36 against the MPs, one against the advisers of the president of the Republic, 76 against judges and former judges, eight against prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, two against state secretaries. The proceedings were initiated against eight assistants and V.D. Assistant Ministers, 34 Presidents and members of Management and Supervisory Committees and Councils, 19 Directors v.d. and Deputy Director of Republic Apparitions and Institutions, as well as against a Rector of the University. So, the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing its job well, and I'm going to read on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66848	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandar Seselj, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Milorad Mircic and Nemanja Sarovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66849	This is really funny, and if it weren't for sad and vice versa, as you will, you have now written in this first member of the amendment of the Law on Public Enterprises that directors and executives, employees of public enterprises during the election campaign, in particular, cannot use resources, to mobbing on employees, to drive official cars, to run a campaign in public enterprises. So, you are now, Mr Marinkovic, like everyone who sits here and Mrs Gojkovic and Mr Martinovic, and above all you ministers, because the government is proposing this, you admitted to doing all this. So, seven years since you've been in power, you've been using the directors of public enterprises, all the bosses, all the superiors, to put pressure on the workers, to make lists, to take them on buses to rallying, to drive official cars, to use mobile phones for safe voices, to do all that. And now that you've been told these mentors of yours from the West, the cowardly one, as we call, "Frankenstein," yes, you must now put it strictly into law to fence it. Who's it gonna be, then? First of all, it won't be possible to respect it. Eighty percent of the directors of your public enterprises are incompetent people, from Elektroprivreda, to move on, incompetent absolutely, losers. Keep them in V.D. I think it's five or six years old, they're just some people thinking, here's the competition, meeting the conditions. You've made it out of public enterprises in the Serbian circus and now you're doing it additionally to such a ridiculous member of the law, where exactly the employees who work for those salaries there...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66850	Thanks, time. Thank you. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the best example not listed, of course, to join a functioning campaign is Dragan Gilas, what can I say when I have to, because the facts say it. He's the official who most combined public functions with private business, his firm "Multitica", "Emouschn", "Darekt Media", etc., it was the boss of all seconds, all the commercials. It was the boss who represented all the major advertising companies and if you were media, printed and electronic, unless you gave public official Dragan Gilas the right not to touch him, to write it nicely to him, etc., you couldn't get an ad because he controlled the companies he represented and no one could answer without his knowledge. His company used to go to commercials. On the other hand, he bought seconds in the media, so for example, seconds were cheaper on RTS than on RTS itself. Today he's mad at Pink, but then he wasn't angry when he broadcast Big Brother, the show not only on B92, but on Pink. When he took all the seconds and reselled them, despite using the troubles of Zeljko Mitrovica. Today, Pink and Zeljko Mitrovic are not doing well. Then he made money on all these companies 619m euros. Today when you ask Bujosevic to give the content of the contract between the Darekt Media and him, or RTS, he says they agreed that despite what is involved in JP RTS, our right to know everything, he comes and says that these contracts are a business secret, because that's how he and Gilas agreed. The most successful example of public officials' wealth, the merger of private businesses with public functions, is Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66852	Thank you. The first amendment was submitted by Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66853	As long as this assembly has lasted since 2016, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has warned that the Rules of Procedure should be changed, you have defended yourself by saying that the Rules of Procedure have brought those who came before you, it is not your fault, but that old political maximum that you should treat the opposition the way you would like to be treated when you are an opposition, you obviously do not understand or accept or refuse, whatever. So we've had here three years of session by emergency procedure, a merger of diverse agenda points to the same search and everything else. We warned how bad that was. It only changed when the pressure came from abroad. So, all the differences were forgotten when the NGO Open Society Fund, under George Soros' auspices, organized meetings at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where they immediately forgot the differences and the advances both Gilas and DS and Dveri and all of them suddenly left the differences aside and left when Soros called them. They talked there about electoral conditions, about the electoral process, what needs to be changed here, they gave instructions, and then today we have everything, the achievement of it all, those instructions, which the ruling majority got. After that, the National Assembly, you can say freely, has experienced a great humiliation, and that is that the servants of the European Parliament, Eduard Kukan and Knut Flenkenstein, have come here, so former MPs, to give lectures on what we need to do, what democracy, what is not democracy, what are elections, what are votes, how are numbered votes and everything else. (President: MP. I've got more time. (President: I apologize. I'd like to take my time, Mrs. Gojkovic. I've returned five seconds. Thus, the National Assembly and the ruling majority in it acted very serenely toward someone who did not deserve that kind of respect. I'm not saying he doesn't deserve any respect, but here to modernize, to give a lecture, he's really out of his mind. So, third, fourth, fifth rank of some European bureaucrats comes here and leads the main word, and then the SNS attitude, from not giving you anything as much as it is, nothing can, we won the elections, we can all, change everything to give you whatever you want, here, whatever you want, here, let's not get off the TV, as counterpart Djukanovic said, etc. So, this shows that in Serbia decisions, primarily by the ruling party, including in the executive or ruling majority, are not made on their own, but under political pressure, which makes no difference between the SNS regime and the DS regime. What are the motives for this engagement of European bureaucrats in Serbia abruptly? The motives are for the entire pro-Western opposition to go to the polls because they are the variant "B", they are the alternative to you. You came to power in 2012. You represent one pro-European force in Serbia, you have gone much further in some of these pro-European things. It is our opinion that this is bad for Serbia, it is obvious to you that it is good for Serbia. As for some agreements, such as the North Atlantic Pact or the conditions that preceded the opening of the chapter, which concerned Kosovo and Metohija and the status of Kosovo and the position of the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija, you did much more than they did to the yellow before you, but they still want to have a plan "B", to have a spare variant in the elections, because if you might make some decision autonomously, independently, which is not in line with what is required of you from Brussels, then they would have to include a spare player in the race. That's the point. You say this is all part of Serbia's overall progress. We have seen that the EU, which we are trying to through these, one way to get the EU through these laws, is not going to Serbia in its membership. That is what Emanuel Makron, President of France, said explicitly in the European Parliament's plenary, and the EU will no longer expand, the European Union does not know what will happen to the remaining members and will go through reforms. We have heard before, we have heard that Kosovo must be recognised in order to become members of the EU, and now it is no longer in circulation either. We now have to recognise Kosovo to enter the "little Schengen". We are represented here by "little Schengen" as some brilliant idea that has fallen from the sky for our overall economic development, so much so that these EU countries will likely start to leave, Germany and France of the EU to join the "little Schengen" as genius. Now as part of this, we also need our political system to coordinate with our modernization and the success of our economy, and then we are not burned and the advice that comes from abroad. So the problems exist in our election process. We have seen, of course, every time the ruling party, whatever the party is, has a dominant position and is taking advantage of all possible things that are not allowed, some to a lesser extent, some to a greater extent. We have seen, above all, that the SNS creates a huge illusion in Serbia, in public opinion on Serbia's position and on life in Serbia, which is not true. We've heard that the Borkov agreements here will be broken. We heard a chip factory was coming. We've heard 100 billion dollars of investment will come. We've heard that we're going to produce Mercedes. We listened to us export Fiat to Russia, we heard that we would have 500 euros' wages four years ago, and only now is that salary somewhere on that average, even below that figure. This can be seen in the campaign, and then the reality is the reduction of wages and pensions. Afterwards, the reality is to grant subsidies to foreign companies, up to 15,000 euros. So, the same economic policy developed by Mladjan Dinkic, used by DS. So there's no difference, except for the microcry created by absolute media domination. When we talk about it, no, no, then you have space, you can talk in the Assembly as much as you want, but when European parlameters or bureaucrats come in from Brussels and say the same thing, you say, yes, yes, you're right, we'll fix it, as is the case with these laws now. By passing these laws, you recognize the fact, and you no longer hide it, that until now, until now, these laws, public resources have been widely used in a campaign by the ruling party, not just cars, but everything. So the state administration was in the role of the ruling party in the campaign. You, by accepting this, therefore, what they wrote to you from these NGOs, and submitted through the Ministry, you accepted that fact and that's what's embarrassing. The National Assembly was to initiate talks between the authorities and the opposition in order to solve all problems, absolutely all the problems regarding the electoral process. All parliamentary parties are discussing and making decisions based on what the Public Service should look like, what the campaign should look like, what the election day should look like, everything else, and not thinking now because the talks are taking place in the National Assembly building, that it is then within the institution. It's not within the framework of an institution. They're using you. They came here to lecture and treat us like we're the third country of everything. It's like they came here on a safari. That's what it looks like. What's the danger of all this? What are you afraid of and why do you unspeakablely fulfill, starting with these laws, to everything else that comes to you from Brussels? You're most afraid that a greeting from Brussels three hours before the polls are closed will be sent to someone other than you. You're afraid you'll lose their support that you've had open to anything you've done. They're just going to turn their backs on you, and they're going to do it, because they understand all their political vases, that's what the Democrats were thinking, that's what they used DS for everything they needed for, do this, do what they did, then we don't need them anymore, and they rejected them. So, like toilet paper, use and throw. That's what they'll do with this regime when they get what they want from it, which is, above all, the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija, and these are just some side pressures about it. We're warning you in time. We'll never get anything good from the EU. We can only see this from our previous history what has come to us from there, and we can compare it with what these countries have received in the region and those that are in candidate status and those that are already members of the EU. So nothing the EU has done anyone any good, as far as Eastern European countries and Balkan countries are concerned. There is no reason it should not be the same with Serbia. Therefore, the National Assembly, the ruling majority in it, the Serbian government should make its own decisions without these political pressures, without political conditions, and we should do what is in our national interest. It is not in our national interest to approach the European Union at the moment, and therefore we do not need these laws. That is why we do not need such a big and strong influence from NGOs in Serbia. They are leading the main word here, we could see that, and when it was this fine internal dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija, we could also see it at the Faculty of Political Sciences when these Soros called on you, and we can see now, when they are actually preparing together with these European bureaucrats of these laws and giving you adoption, and your only task is to justify it all and to say that this is actually the needs of the citizens of Serbia and what will advance and modernise our electoral process, and it won't. This will only contribute to the short-term satisfaction of someone from the European Commission, from the European Council, from the European Parliament and that you will reduce the pressure to a short term, and he will return, because when they see that you are meeting everything, they only increase their demands and therefore want to have two variations in the elections – pro-European power and pro-European opposition, so that they do not have to worry about Serbia's fate that it will finally start thinking with its own head and that it will leave that European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66854	Thank you. On the 1st Amendment, the Verse of Radet submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66855	This hanging out with these foreign mentors of yours is contrary to Article 59. The Law on the National Assembly that accurately regulates the achievement of international co-operation. So you're breaking, except for the Constitution, of course, the Constitution above all, but you're breaking this Law on the National Assembly. Here, for the public, first of all, what this will look like based on these pamphlets, which you will adopt tomorrow as a law on what the campaign will look like, let's say, one day. The president of the state will come to open up there sometime. Officials of the Director of Public Enterprises, and they are mainly in V.D. the condition to serve the master better, normally, they will bring primarily all employees at a certain time, and such are the most and they will have an obligation to bring their narrow and wider family and buses from all over Serbia will come to that place. So, all you've seen before, you're already doing all that, but then in half three, you'll cut the ribbons, it'll be applause, clapping to the president of the country because he opened up there some time, and then while those people you'll bring in, while they eat the sandwich, while they drink that bottle of water, it'll be half an hour, the Wolfic shows up, now he's got his tie off, a little more relaxed, comes in as party president, and then gives them a pre-election political speech. So in the same place, only half an hour apart in time, all about the cost of public enterprises, because the directors of public enterprises will bring these people, they will provide not only sandwiches and water, but also that transport, buses. So nothing's going to change. Admit it, don't make a farce of yourself. Say, we're the government now, we want to continue to be, and that's why we're going to gather, we're going to bring our people, etc. But you're hiding behind this Kukan and these cowards over there, which, in fact, you look that way in front of them, that they're gathering you, that they're ordering you, that they're giving you orders and then you're telling us, no, we're doing it for us. No, you're doing it because you're being ordered, and you're essentially going to act the way you've acted so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66856	Just for the sake of the public, since you said we're working against our country's regulations, it's not true. Member of the 60th Law, which you quoted item 2, means, one, two, three, four – The National Assembly achieves international co-operation through interparliamentary dialogue and other forms of co-operation with the European Parliament. That's what we do. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) MPs are coming to the assembly of this European Parliament, so that we are all fulfilling in accordance with the law and regulations of this country. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66857	The additions to the Law on Public Enterprises are one colorful lie. I hope you don't even talk about them after today because it doesn't make sense. It will be as it was and you will continue to abuse what you are so far. You didn't make that up. It didn't come from you. That was before, you've only perfected so nicely now. The Serbian Radical Party intervened on Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Supplements, which refers to Article 49 of the applicable Law on Public Enterprises. Article 49 says – when the Director of a Public Enterprise ceases his term before the end, so you here suggest that, in addition to certain views, you add and say – if he uses resources to make it a condition for the early termination of the term of office, he promotes the political party, he puts pressure on the employees. You say these are all reasons for the end of the term of office, i.e. the termination of the term of office before the end of the term of office. We have suggested here – and if you hire workers for a certain time to provide safe votes. That would be hard to prove. That would mean spending some time, but all of what you said if he did do it, that or that, that he would end his term before the deadline. That's not true, it's not just possible. You may have built, not maybe but actually built more highways, other fast traffic and the like. This is not at all controversial, but when it comes to the political system, you did not improve it, you even reversed it, or very often abused it in relation to the regime that was before you. Just to tell you and the citizens of Serbia, it is not an alternative to you, or an alternative to a political party that is pro-Westernly oriented, parties that tend to encourage the traditional enemies of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. The alternative for this government is the SRS joined by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66858	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66859	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nothing will be achieved by this law. This is primarily the demagogy of the upcoming parliamentary elections. It's not clear why these fines are so small and low that you can pay a fine of 50 to 150 thousand dinars, and let's say you have some people who have two, three million salaries. Secondly, there is damage to both the budget and the damage to the taxpayers. Here I would predict the following – in the election year I would introduce red tables for all public enterprises and all public institutions. Then I would introduce a mileage for every vehicle and spent gasoline and predict a sentence of up to three years in prison that abuses the position and damages the budget of more than 500,000 dinars up to three years, and this under three could be a violation and a fine of a million-and-a-half dinar would be imposed. There is no speech, ladies and gentlemen, that something will be achieved by this law, not by any chance, but I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, which Serbia has allowed to be so humiliated and humiliated. Serbia has harmonised its rights, laws and installed it in a legal system with the parallel rights of democratic states with developed legal systems, and I believe... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66860	Thank you very much. The word is Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66861	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, I propose that the above amendment be rejected because Article 2 of the proposed law refers to infringements of the responsible person and criminal provisions. The proposal to amend and supplement this law aims to strengthen the responsibility of officials in relation to the use and availability of public resources, and the paper is that the directors of public enterprises in Serbia will be relieved of their duties before the end of the term of office if it is proved that they have used the resources of the companies at whose head they are and for the purpose of promoting political parties. In particular, a ban on the use of official premises, vehicles, public enterprise inventory is highlighted without compensation. Any activities related to the promotion of political parties, as well as election campaigns in working time and pressure on employees and persons engaged on a second basis in a public enterprise, are prohibited. So, they will have to explain their business to detail and specify exactly how they will spend money, both the one for investment and the representatives. They will also have to set precise targets for the next period, channels by which they will make profits, as well as ways to verify their fulfillment, i.e. a detailed structure of planned revenue and expenditure. As part of the plan, the number of employees, the qualification structure of employees, will be presented. They will also have to present credit responsibilities, planned procurement for 2020, with transparency expressed by 2022 to show full planned procurement. I fully support this introduction of order, because transparency of the work of our public enterprises is necessary. Together with these draft laws, they represent the continuation of the laws that have been passed since the SNS is in the leading position in our Serbia. The election obligation of directors in competitions is also prescribed by the 2012 law, when the deadline for competitions to be discussed no later than 30 June 2013. The bill promoter was also the Ministry of Economy, as it is now. State-owned enterprises are the most problematic area when it comes to the anti-corruption system in Serbia and it is therefore very important to pass a law that will really enable control, depoliticisation and greater transparency by its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66862	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66863	Why are we Serbian radicals skeptical? First of all, because there is a real reason when it comes to the development of parliamentary democracy, you remember, at the beginning of this call, we insisted that the internal act that regulates the work of this parliament be changed. We encountered a silence wall by the ruling coalition. It's always been that - we'll sit down, we'll talk. We have seen that what should be perfectly normal, which is that we are all equal in this House, turns out to be equal. When it comes to elections, we have been saying -- you need to change the law on elections, you need to change, especially return to what is the original interpretation when it comes to the availability of mandates, you have been silent. Now, suddenly, there is good will, and more than that, as the President of the Assembly said, when someone from the EU appears, from the European Parliament. And how are we, Serbian radicals, interpreting? How do Serbian citizens interpret it? So, as we speak in Parliament, in some ways we want to find a solution, that's what we're talking about. And when they appear from the European Parliament, then there is this excess of democracy and democratic principles. To whom did this democracy bring something good, especially to Serbia? Here you've made the same difference - they have the same and they have the same. This is where the director of the public enterprise for the violation of this law should be or may be relieved of its functions, and the responsible persons pay the fine. And what a fine -- which is completely negligible in terms of the potential benefit that will be achieved in the elections. What does 50 to 150 thousand dinars mean? Well, you're just a public firm when you take over, it's a huge asset.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66864	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, MP. Not Marijan Risticevic, but Nemanja Sarovic. I don't know. He stole your card. It's Marian Risticevic. You can't, you're not the bearer of the amendment. I need Nemanja Sarovic. Negation, check whose card that is. On the screen is Marijan Rističević. Well, it's only now that it's okay. You didn't do much of a trick.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66865	I really don't know, Mrs. Gojkovic, who you're talking about and what kind of trick you're talking about. The public works -- it's my card. And you can read it very well on the system. So I haven't used anyone's card for a moment. And it has nothing to do with me, but it could possibly have to do with the system. So, as far as this law is concerned, the law is completely pointless. We predicted that all three meaningless additions to this law were deleted. If this is how you try to get in touch with your Western mentors, not your partners, because there is no speech here from the partnership, the citizens of Serbia should know. You provide for pathetic penalties for those who abuse public enterprises or you eventually foresee that the director of a public enterprise is resolved. When? When a judicial verdict is reached that someone in the campaign has also misused the resources of a public enterprise, for political promotion of his party, and such a verdict has never been made in Serbia's history, nor will it be made. And that's clear to everyone. If you can make fools of those of the EU in this way, it's an honor to you, but citizens of Serbia or us, you certainly can't. Well, you haven't been able to solve that tortured Babic who resigned himself for, apparently, moral reasons. You haven't been able to resolve it for a year, and you need someone to trust you on the word that the courts will first make a decision and rule of law that someone broke the law and misused the resources of a public enterprise, so that on the basis of that judicial verdict you can resolve a director. There's nothing more absurd here. You know very well that in Serbia such a thing does not work, nor will it work almost, because there is firstly no political will.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66866	Thank you. I've extended my time. Nemanja Sarovic: You have shortened my time. I didn't cut anything short. You didn't understand that I was pulling on your side, but the first one was Rističević. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66867	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I've got a funny touch. Unit of measurement for abuse of position, connecting functions with private business is one Gilas. Two Gilas are worth one sollac. We have no problems with the elections, we have no problems with the opposition, we have a problem with Solak-Gilas business, with millionaires who want to revote millions of votes. We have not adopted electoral rules, nor have we adopted election rules on the election of MPs, the President of the Republic, the Councilors, the City Elections, the Regional Elections. All those rules have already been adopted and brought before us. We didn't share national frequencies, regional frequencies. We didn't set up RTS editors, we didn't take on BK TV. We did not ban the printed media, we did not forcely engage in "Kurr", we did not arrest the director and founder of "The Voice of the Public". It was all done by those we won by their rules and won more times than in 2012. In the era of social networks that are far more developed before 2012, talking about freedom of the media is, in my opinion, illusory. Also, because of Europe and relations with the EU, I must say that the international community and relations in the international community are like climates. You may not admit them, but you can get wet. Relations with the European Parliament are such that they can't order anything from us, but they should know, and even here, democracy is not an import-export product, not to be imported from one era to another, from one country to another. Democracy is a process of maturation and it must grow inside, it cannot grow in an isolated country. Democracy in isolated countries does not exist. But democracy can't be forced on the outside, and we're making it clear to these yellow cockroaches and those European parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66868	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66869	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and since we are slowly bringing an end to the debate, I would take the opportunity to thank first, of course, everyone who took part in the debate. You certainly know that this is the only way to deal with issues that are of political interest, concerning citizens of the Republic of Serbia and as we have always said, this place, this House is the right address for every conversation on political consensus, disagreements, possible grudges, comments, the proposal to solve anything in one way or another. You see, this is our principled position all the time, and this attitude is reflected in the fact that the dialogue on electoral conditions in Serbia we are leading in the National Assembly, and we are always stressing this as particularly important. Whoever wants to participate honestly is always welcome, but you know where this conversation is going. Once again, in the National Assembly. It is known who is hosting the dialogue, it is the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. We have spoken and I repeat - this National Assembly decides on draft laws concerning the electoral process in any way. The will of the Members of Parliament will be or will not be to adopt the draft laws, just as you have seen today, the will of the Members of Parliaments of the committee responsible was to make certain changes to this text. Finally, we will plead when the voter's day is scheduled for the president of the National Assembly, at the time it is announced from where the chairman sits. It's the only right way and it's a responsible relationship to institutions. We're not looking for anything else. We ask, therefore, that every institution of this country is respected, that this is shown by conducting a dialogue at the House of the National Assembly, by doing your job as MPs. Certainly, not by breaking into the House of the People's Assembly trying to break glass at the front door using the Serbian flag, as they broke Gilas and his glass at the RTS front door. This, therefore, is not an example of a responsible relationship with any institution. We are not asking for anything more than to respect the fact – we are today raising standards and adopting those solutions for which everyone will be able to say – yes, they represent more transparency. Yes, they represent a better orderly procedure, removing the illogical or flawed, the indeterminations that existed in the laws that all the former regime itself had adopted. And nothing more than that. We say, yes, we have also suggested stricter penalties because all interested actors have said that this should be considered and it should be adopted. We say, yes, we set deadlines because interested actors on various sides said those deadlines were missing, i.e. they were not foreseen in those texts adopted by the former regime. This former regime, which, of course, today says that nothing is right and that their birth texts are no good. Our attitude is our approach, I believe, all the time was only rational, serious, responsible and we didn't lie for a second when we said – people, we're not running away from any topic. We can agree on any, but literally every aspect of the election process and you'll see, at the very end, every aspect of the election process will be improved. It's a fact of how things are today. There is no single angle to observe the election process, and tomorrow you will say – is not improved. The voter list is advanced, training for people who are hired to conduct election actions are provided, materials, education for citizens, detailed information, transfer to digital format of all results of the minutes, laws that regulate the dangers of misuse of resources or campaign functioning. Absolutely every segment we have covered and, as we have always said, it will be an honor to say – we have raised that level of quality, if you will, and democracy and freedom in Serbia where they have never been, at least in the time of the former regime which has only become rich and thought of itself. They didn't care about the electoral laws either for the people and for democracy, they didn't care about that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're looking as a principled and fair attitude just an opportunity for all those people who do something in Serbia to just say -- here, we did it and nothing else. We are the first to take a stand – there is no abuse, we are the first to say – there should not be party benefits from public resources in any way. But first and when it has to be said – give a fair opportunity to anyone who ever told the citizens – I want to do that too, so tomorrow he can stand in front of those citizens and say – here, see, I did it and now it looks like that. We always have a chance to answer – what about the issue of responsibility in this country and nothing more than that. Well, when someone asks for a quick answer, it is the principle that in one place you can complete all, as the people say, paperwork. Did we do that? Yes, we've conducted united procedures. Is that what we digitize today and make it automatic? Yeah, we're doing it, and we're not looking for anything anymore, just an opportunity to say it and show it, and that we've been trying to blow up the plan, a hell of a plan of the former regime, that the "Icarbus" sinks, that they're dragging it out of their pockets for absolutely everything that's worth it in this country. Well, they said, yes, in several cities we provided buses that were actually created in collaboration with Mercedes and that we found a good solution with our friends from the People's Republic of China and for that company. Just a chance to say it and nothing more. That's more than enough for the people. Chips, investment in the IT sector, so let's just say -- you see, 23 times more investment in the sector today than five years ago, and to show that if you have to on the case of the company in Novi Sad and if you need on the case of Pancheva, Zrenjanina, Belgrade, wherever you want, but I am a fair opportunity to submit the report to the citizens. And, let's say -- yes, for the first time, the subway was planned with our budget, and for the first time, someone's really considering providing funds. They're no longer colorful lies to Gilasov, like in 2009 or 2010 when he talked – that's what I'll do in two years, so it wasn't the first, or the second, or any time, when it was just a story. There's a big difference between when it's seriously planned and home-made budgets for that kind of funding and security. These are our principled views. There were questions, well, what do we feel now when we hear, for example, that someone from the European Parliament on everything we do, says, doesn't do power enough, didn't want to implement 60 or as much as you want percent? What can I tell you, get your shoulders down, wonder if it's a mistake or not a mistake, but that it's a lie, it's a lie. We never have any fear or discomfort to say it openly. And that's what we're saying today, and here in this debate we're going to tell the Europarliamentaries both tonight and tomorrow and whenever you want, 60% is absolutely 100% already implemented everything we talked about, which was a topic two months ago, or when a month ago was added or these days, whatever you want, it's already over. The rest, in the thick phase of realization. And it will be very soon 70, 80, 90 until the day the elections will be held, and it will be held in accordance with the Constitution and how the laws order it. We have no problem with that, so when they sin, let us tell them, you are wrong. But we laughed a few times and you might have noticed that because there was a question on the subject, says one of these Europarliamentaries, we're going to have to see something about the deadline for those elections. Why did we smile? Well, one because we know it well, and we all know it here, and our people know it, the Constitution says, when it's going to be. It's not really declassified, it's rather unserious, that someone out there with Gilas or his buddhaics is talking about whether or not it can happen in the fall. That he can do that in nine months? He can't do it in the fall, he can't do it in nine months. In addition to what the Constitution says, of course, in addition to what is prescribed by the laws, there is one thing that should be taken into account by all those who deal with this issue, let's say, first of all, those people from the European Parliament. It's completely pointless for them to talk to Gilas or these glasses of his on this subject of any kind, it's completely pointless even for us to share the message of Gilas' wishes and fantasies. There's only one place where it makes sense to ask any question, if they don't know anything about when they're going to vote. In this country, elections for MPs are being held by the President of the Republic. Dot. Gilasi, Obradovici, whatever gods you want, have nothing to do with it and if the European Parliament or some 10th, anything interested, if it is not clear to them there is Andric's wreath, but they know very well what kind of answer they can get, on any fantasy, on that subject. Well, there probably won't be any such questions, nor can there be. At the very end, in this country, whatever anyone thinks and whatever anyone wants to understand or possibly doesn't want to admit it, they don't vote, so they don't decide on the future of this country, or the OSCE, or the European Parliament, or any international organisation. The citizens of this country vote, the people of Serbia vote. Just because that's the case, the answer will be clear, freedom, democracy, perspective for this people, the economy to build, the house to keep, to make those paths that we've been waiting for for decades and factories, clinical and hospital centres and science and technology parks and companies to bring new ones, as we have already done with success. This means that Alexander Vucic, the SNS and the policy of perspective for this country has absolute support for the citizens of this country and absolutely no one else in this country is wondering, except for its people, while we, from the SNS, are headed by Alexander Vukic, are able to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-12-12-0.u66870	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday 13 December 2019, starting at 11pm, as the Day for Voting on Points 2 to 6 of the eighth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you. I'll see you at the vote tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 144 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts from points 2 to 6 of the agenda. I put to the vote - Proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 144, v – two, abstention – one, did not vote - one MP. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the amendment, which was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 2nd Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasants' Party. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for seven Messengers. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 2 with the correction submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 with the correction submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – one, abstention – two, did not vote - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dibravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the 2nd parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the third parliamentary group of the Modern Serbian Party to vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting the draft law to the vote by amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency's Anti-Corruption Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. Finalising vote: for – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Olena Papuga. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the modern-Serbian party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 144 against – three abstentions – none, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put the vote on the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Now we're going to point six. – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Deputy Protector of the City I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of Deputy Protector of the Citizens, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a motion for a decision to elect Deputy Protectors of the Citizens. Allow me to congratulate Jelena Stojanović, Dr Natasa Tjanjevic and Slobodan Tomic on the choice of Deputy Protector of the Citizens and to wish them a lot of success in the work. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 December 2019, at 11 o'clock and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 December 2019, at 11 o'clock and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 9 December 2019, at 11 o'clock and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Vjerica Radet, at a session on 9 December 2019, at 13 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to injuries by members 88th position 5th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on December 12, 2019, at 14 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 December 2019, at 14 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the eighth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
