ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that the conditions for continuing the work of the National Assembly are met. In accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with this article? Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58062	Ladies and gentlemen, the last time we changed Criminal Law, we Serbian radicals suggested to the government, the Ministry of Justice, and the ruling majority in general to introduce another provision into the Criminal, a law by which every public claim would have been made that Srebrenica was a genocide criminally punished. It is urgent to make such a provision, because those things that happen in our public are worse than any of our darkest expectations. Today, at half past six a.m., when I read the daily press, today’s number “Today” and the article Snow White Congradin came into my hand. You know, you've heard of Snow White Congradin, it's very ugly, even uglier than Staša Zjajovic. Staša Zjajovic is a starlet towards her. This one looks like a mongoose. A real mongoose, my eyes. This, Snow White Congradin, who looks like a mongoose, writes: I am a journalist in a country who committed genocide 24 years ago, and which not even today, not that she did not face it, but the whole society is in principle getting further away from the process. And, as time goes by, the state apparatus that calls it war crimes and so on, it calls you war crimes, come on, it's known to me, it's a crime in my blood, but what you do when you're so peaceful and pithomous. That's why you're a criminal regime. She says – Serbia has committed genocide. He says -- the state where she's a journalist, it's Serbia, and it's going to go undetected and unpunished, and we're getting objections from the EU that there's no press freedom in Serbia, and I'd like to send every journalist who writes this to 20 years in prison, so let him build an opposition leader, build a martyr. Be careful, she would be an excellent opposition leader, she is uglier than Gilas, and than Boško Obradovic and Sergey Trifunovic, than Vuk Jeremic, is uglier than all four. (Marian Risticevic: Janko Veselinović) Don't get out of the marginal parties, it's your sector, you deal with them, I'm just chasing these capitalists. What else does she write? "The Women in Black," the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, these are the assholes that often appear in anti-Serbian media... What? (Marian Risticevic: Besko. These are the followers of the Biljana Kovacevic Vuco, who had been transplanted by her kidney, and he did not keep the kidney in it, nor did he keep it from anyone else, nor did he have to cancel her obedience. She says it's better in the clay than in her body. Look, maybe I'm more harshly expressing myself, but I don't have the kind of bad words that I'd qualify for these kind of people. I'm terrified, and God forbid I'm already in power, you'd know I'm dealing with them. Like this, you know, I don't like breaking laws, if I run over someone with a jeep... . I threw the caterpillars on the jeep, I found some combat vehicle in the junkyard, so the next time I step on these things that forbid me to go into the assembly, it'll go down the road. Here's what she says: "women in black" The Youth for Human Rights Initiative is the only real value and elite of the local society. Elita! There you go. That's what the Western media think of it as an elite. You don't want to admit them to the elite, you think you're the elite. No, they're elite, and you're expendable from today to tomorrow. They'll get rid of you easily if they get rid of me first.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58063	Thank you, Professor Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58064	It's been five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58065	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58066	So it's necessary that we approach the Criminal Code as soon as possible and that these things are sanctioned, so that the people on the street don't sanction them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58067	Thank you, Professor. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58068	Thank you, Chairman. I ask the question to the Republic Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and REM. The questions are: Are "N1", "Nova S", and "Sport Club", home channels? Do "N1", "Nova S", and "Sport Club" have the necessary work permits in accordance with all the positive laws in Serbia? Do "N1", "Nova S", and "Sport Club" pay prescribed fees, to whom and in what amount? Are "N1", "Nova S", and "Sport Club" listed in the Register of Public Voices? Are "N1", "Nova S", and "Sport Club" taxpayers in Serbia and do they meet their obligations as a whole? Do these channels pay Sokoya, OFFS and in what amount? Where are they, or in which country are the masters of these televisions? Did the competent authorities, including REM, carry out a check of allegations that headquarters and masters in Luxembourg were? Are these programs originally broadcast in Luxenburg? What language? Are there commercials in Serbian in Luxembourg? Is such an original programme from Luxembourg distributed to the cable network “SBB”, where it is re-emissioned or re-emissioned modified? How did REM find that "N1", "Nova S" and "Sport Club" are not domestic channels, i.e. they are cross-border and there are no domestic ads on these channels? Have the competent authorities, including REM, checked whether Cast Media sells advertising space on television in accordance with positive legal rules? Did the competent authorities, including REM, carry out a check on allegations that these programmes are being broadcast from studies in Belgrade and that REM monitors these channels, or operators that re-transmit these programmes? Did the authorities, including REM, carry out a verification of allegations that on TV "N1", "Nova S" and all sports clubs are broadcasting Serbian ads and what are the results of these checks? Have the competent authorities taken steps and, if not, when they will do so to determine whether they are on cross-border channels based abroad "N1", "Nova S", "Sport Club", possibly interrupting the original signal and inserting ads in Serbian? If this happens, who does and when will take appropriate steps and take action against responsible persons? I'll remind you that the Electronic Media Act regulates the re-emission area. According to the provisions of this Act, re-emission means the acquisition and transmission of software content at the same time, without changing, terminating and inserting any other content. Article 46 of the same law guarantees the freedom to accept and re-emission media services from other countries, guaranteed in the Republic of Serbia the freedom to work confirmed by international contracts. Article 100 provides that surveillance of operators is carried out by REM, that the operator is obliged to distribute media services, radio or TV broadcasting at the same time and completely and without any change, that the regulator shall monitor and ensure compliance with the obligations of operators prescribed by the provisions of this member in co-operation with RATEL. According to the Advertising Act, Article 74 paragraph 2 provides for the supervision of the application of the Law on advertising to be carried out by REM. The Convention on Cross-border Television precisely regulates the area of re-emission of cross-border channels. How the possible violation of these rules, as well as the rules governing the issue of tax and other obligations, may constitute an operation of a series of commercial offences and essential features of a series of criminal acts for which it is prosecuted by official duty, I expect, unless it has been approached, to verify all the knowledge that has been given to the competent authorities and to determine whether or not there are elements for the initiation of infringements or criminal proceedings, to do so as soon as possible, if immediately, and my question treats as a violation and criminal application against those persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58069	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58070	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my question to Branko Ruzic, Minister of State and Local Self-Government. I ask when will local government in Vrbas introduce Montenegrin language in its territory as a language that should be in official use, given that all the conditions laid down by law are met? I recall that the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters in Article 11(2) obliges local self-governments to introduce languages of national minorities, i.e. minority languages that meet a percentage of 15% within 90 days of the date of the establishment of the laws of the prescribed conditions. In the municipality of Vrbas are already in official use of Serbian, Hungarian and Russian languages, and small Ijoš has already introduced the official use and Montenegrin language, besides Hungarian and Serbian, into his territory, and the obligation to introduce the Montenegrin language of the Vrbas municipality has not been met for nine years. The Montenegrin party has pointed to this, I say, for years and points to these legal obligations. In Vrbas municipality, according to the latest census, there are 7,353 members of the Montenegrin community, which accounts for 17,5 % of the total population of the municipality, which means that the legal obligation of the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters in Article 11 is met even by those 15% of the population in the last census. I ask when the Vrbas municipality, or local government in Vrbas, will introduce Montenegrin language into official use and will the Ministry of Local and State Self-Government have that in mind and will in any way force the Vrbas municipality to fulfil these legal obligations towards the Montenegrin national community living in the territory of the Vrbas municipality? I would like to ask the second question, Minister of Agriculture Branislav Nedimovic and Minister Branko Ruzic. My question concerns whether they are aware that the Kinological Union of Vojvodina is being shut down, which was founded 70 years ago and is one of the founders of the Yugoslav Kinological Union? It is, in fact, that at the end of 2018, the Secretary-General of the Kinological Union of Serbia Mahmoud Masou Al Dagistan, based solely on an oral order, ordered the Kinological Union of Vojvodina to no longer work as relatives and no longer have the right to use the seal, which he did. So he came and took that seal away. Namely, the board of directors of the Kinological Union of Serbia has no information on this, which was declared in March 2019. I ask Minister Ruzic and Minister Nedimovic is the denial of relatives to the Vojvodina Kinological Alliance only the will of the Secretary-General and is the Ministry of Agriculture aware of this? Has the Ministry of Agriculture given such authority? Is only the Cinological Union of the Republic of Serbia authorised to issue relatives for dogs and, if so, on whose authority, the permit, has given consent to that authority? Did the International Kinological Union give authority, permission, consent and, if so, what concrete act did it do? I'm looking for that act to be delivered to me. When and at which session of the Kinological Union of Serbia did it decide to take away the right to produce relatives in the Kinological Union of Vojvodina? If there is the authority of the International Kinological Union, is it achieved through the competent Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Authority and for what period? Who does the printing of relatives' forms, who orders patterns, surveillance and records of their use, and who bear the cost of making them? So, once again, I ask Minister Ruzic and Minister Nedimovic what are the reasons for taking away the right to make relatives of the Kinological Union of Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58071	Thank you, colleague Papuga. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58072	Thank you, Chairman. I refer the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister of Business Goran Knezevic. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Kragujevac, the former Serbian capital and former industrial giants, the working city, and today the cities of people rich in spirit, but unfortunately a little less rich materially. Just as the Smederets are mostly concerned about the situation in "The Irons" or the people in Majdanpek as the situation in the copper mine worries us, so we are mostly concerned about the situation in our automotive industry and this situation in the "Fiato's" factory, which was created as part of our famous perpetum of the mobile economy and the grant of 10,000 euros for job creation. Unfortunately, unlike our plans, life and the market have some laws. Today we are in a position that employees of Fiat Krassler, the cars of Serbia, will be sent to the paid leave until the beginning of their collective vacation, which begins on July 29th and ends on August 19th. I want to meet Serbian colleagues and citizens that the Serbian government has already approved Fiat Krassler's additional days of paid leave by the end of this year. So that's 132 days total. This means that the number of days of increased leave has increased by 87 days since the law allowed 45 days of paid leave. This is, therefore, four and a half months of paid leave due to reduced production which has long been working in reduced capacities since 2016, when the third shift and the redundancies have been abolished. Due to reduced demand for the model produced in Kragujevac, 30,000 cars will be produced this year, at least since the start of production in this factory. During this paid leave, workers receive 65% of their regular earnings and now most of these people will be forced to look for jobs as seasonal workers in agriculture. Since the state owns 33% of the capital in the Kragujeva car factory, I refer the issue to the Prime Minister and Minister of Business Goran Knezevic, and the question is: does the Fiat Chrysler Group have an investment plan for Serbia at all, and did they have insight into the plan? We need to know if the company is going to continue business or if the workers are going to be fired, because that depends on the lives of 2,000 Kragujeva families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58073	Thank you. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58074	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected pensioners of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Zoran Djordjevic, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. My parliamentary question will be about reforming the pension disability system and amending and supplementing the Pension Disability Insurance Act. As is known, PUPS and Mr Milan Krkobic have launched an open social dialogue on the necessity of reforming the pension system and we expect the dialogue to be accepted. The PUPS has launched a dialogue and everyone is invited. We offer a proposal, not solutions. We believe that we will come to a solution in a constructive and healthy atmosphere. These are talks that cannot bypass pensioners' associations, representative trade unions, the NGO sector, the professional public, government representatives and relevant political parties. It is clear that the final word will be passed by MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. The decision to stop reducing pensions is very good. This decision, which the PUPS insisted on opening up space to enter into something called a serious reform of the pension system, and this reform must be phased out. The first step is sustainable legislative solutions that will regulate the problem. Such solutions, comprehensive and stable, will completely rule out any impact of individuals, groups, parties, but also legitimate concern for people whether pension is increased or not. My question is – will the ministry and the government accept the dialogue offered by the PUPS and will they organise open dialogue, social dialogue with the relevant representatives? Everyone's mouth is full of care for the pensioners, but few have responded to a PUPS call on the dialogue on reform of the PIO system and the Law on PIO. My second question will be to amend and supplement the PIO Act. Mr. Minister, there have been questions about amendments to the PIO Act going through the press for a long time. The option includes several amendments and additions and various recommendations of certain structures, notably the Fiscal Council, as well as proposals and recommendations of individual experts for this area. For the time being, at least those whose legislation concerns them are pensioners who made a major contribution to stabilising state finances and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Fiscal Council has proposed five solutions, i.e. five models that take into account inflation, growth in earnings, as well as an increase in GDP. The first model proposed by the Fiscal Council is that pensions line up with inflation and part of domestic product budget growth over 2%. The second proposal is to coordinate 50% with inflation and 50% with profit growth. The third proposal is 50% with inflation and 50% with a growth in average earnings, so-called Swiss model, which we had until 2006. The fiscal council's alternative is that pensions line up 40% with inflation and 60% with profit growth, as well as 30% with inflation and 70% with profit growth. The announcement by the finance minister is the closest solution, i.e. the Swiss model of indexing pensions, which is 50% with inflation and 50% with profit growth. Of course, better models are 40% to 60% and 30% to 70% to inflation and profit ratios. Patrius of united pensioners of Serbia proposes and insists on the rule, i.e. the 3P pensions follow the salary, as is the case with Germany, Sweden, which we as a people and states recognise that the standards of these countries are the best and that as a state we seek. The PUPS is not without reason in favour of the 3P-retirement formula, because it is the only model that guarantees that pensioners will be in an equal relationship with employees and will not be citizens of the second row. What percentage of professors' salaries, doctors, officers, police officers or other civil servants who work, so much as a percentage of professors, officers, officers and other retired officials. The model would be fair because of the pensioner's relationship with the decision to reduce salaries and pensioners' share of employees, i.e. pensions to stabilise finances and budgets. At that time, there was a 3P-retirement formula, as reduced to the employees, as much as to the pensioners. (President: I thank you. ) My question to Minister Djordjevic is – will the German and Swedish models be taken into account to follow 100% of earnings and wages because it is necessary to implement deep reforms and systems and the Law on PIO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58075	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58076	This time I only have one question, which goes to the highest address -- the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as regards this current yesterday's and today's visit by French President Emmanuel Macron to Serbia. To avoid misunderstandings, it is always important that the first people of important European countries visit and meet with the leaders of Serbia and no one opposes it. But during these meetings, that is my opinion, we should have at least a crumb of the elements of national dignity and self-respect, a team before, we remember, that the visit was past last autumn, that is, the celebration and marking of 100 years of victory in the First World War or the Great War, and what kind of treatment the Serbian delegation had there, or the Serbian president. Not to mention the flag of Kosovo in Notre Dame and that humiliating place that the president was in, whoever he was, whatever he thought of him, the president of one of the winning countries in that Great War. Dalke, in this context this visit is happening, an important visit and a host, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity to apologize for this incident, the least said incident, in Paris, actually made a new diplomatic guff. That's why I'm saying my question goes to two addresses. He said, I quote -- Serbia and Kosovo are indeed European countries. So European countries are Serbia and Kosovo and we need to help translate it into reality, i.e. facts or reality. In this light, he also spoke of the need for an agreement between Serbs and Albanians, that is, between Serbia and Kosovo, because the euphemism of Belgrade and Pristina is mainly used in our media, most European statesmen unfortunately do not use it, but is talking about Serbia and Kosovo as equal countries. In this context, Makron spoke of the German-French case and said the nation's pride is not in conflict with a country that is your neighbour, so again insinuating that Kosovo is neighbour to Serbia. Of course it is known that we do not agree with most European countries, not everyone, fortunately, but with most European countries and most Western countries on this issue, but when it is already such a high visit, at the highest level, it was, then, I think, necessary to kindly and politely draw attention and let the guest know that Serbia does not consider Kosovo an independent country and that it is not a neighbour of Serbia. It is particularly important in light of all that has been happening in the previous months on the Paris-Belgrade route, and in that sense some diplomatic reaction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, let's say, Ambassador of France, I think it would be in place, rather than distorting the whole positive context. What is saddest in all this, the Serbian media, most domestic media, here I have all the Serbian daily newspapers that go out in Serbia, eight newspapers, I have carefully reviewed, no newspaper has recorded that statement by Emmanuel Macron. Those who have not watched the TV broadcast, live, broadcast from the press conference, Serbian citizens simply do not know about the statement. It's probably in the desire not to disrupt good relations and a positive atmosphere about it. But, head-to-sand, it is my deepest and most honest opinion, closing my eyes to these things, such statements and such non-diplomatic gestures, as President Makron has now done, not even contributes to bilateral relations, does not contribute to Serbia's reputation in the world, but rather to the contrary. So this kind of autocensorship that our media and our political summit have passed on, I think it's actually harmful, counterproductive, and it just allows such events and such statements to accumulate, and there are many. It is a shame and I regret that the overall good atmosphere of this visit has been marred by this incident, and I regret even more that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, for now, our diplomacy and our political summit have not responded, I say, politely but resolutely to what happened yesterday in Belgrade, just like last fall in Paris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58077	Thank you, Mr. Vukadinovic. The word now has Marjana Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58078	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, I will use my right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to ask today two parliamentary questions which, in my opinion, are much more important than the introduction of a Montenegrin language into the local self-government of Vrbas, since our only 213 citizens have declared themselves speaking Montenegrin, and I think I have the right to say that, since I belong to the Montenegrin national minority and I speak Serbian. First question I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a regulation on criteria and the determination of the areas of agricultural and forest land in the process of returning the seized property that is to address the issue of land alienated in the process of commercialisation, i.e. arondation. This Regulation shall enter into force on 21 April 2018. The regulation regulates the procedure for restitution in a communicated area and allows the establishment of a State Agricultural Land Fund from which land is to be returned to former owners, lays down criteria for the return of agricultural land or forest land in the property of the Republic of Serbia in the area of cadastrian municipalities where, after the confiscation procedure, land arrondation, as well as criteria for determining the area of agricultural and forest land which is not returned in the process of return, the term of the cohesion mass referred to in Article 24 is defined closer. The return law is taken away from property and damages. It has also been defined that former owners first return land to the Catastrian municipality where it was taken away. If he cannot return to that catastrian municipality, he will return to the neighbouring Catastrian municipality within the local self-government and, if he cannot, return to any catastrian municipality within the local self-government and eventually return the land from any neighbouring municipality, i.e. units of local self-government. This is precisely the problem of the Vrbas municipality, since 1,200 hectares of land have been returned to the Vrbas municipality, and 332 parcels from the Vrbas municipality are still in the Fund of State Agricultural Land from which land will be returned. So far, land has been returned, for example, sought by the legal representatives of Dunjerski in Vienna and Serbia, which is about 300 hectares back in the Katastrian municipality of Dragonjevo, within our local self-government, has been returned to a part of the land that was sought in the Katastrian municipality of Despotovo, which is the neighbouring municipality of Bačka Palanka. The argument in one case was that there was no more land that could be returned to certain municipalities, and the other case that there was no process of membership. That's why I'm asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture - is this how the municipalities that carried out the process of membership are being punished, i.e. Cruise, settle their agricultural land? According to data from the newly-sad area within the legal deadline, an additional 8,600 requirements were filed, mainly from Vojvodina, which require the agricultural land that was the subject of the commission. The revenues from the rent of state agricultural land in 2017 were 100 million in our municipality, in 2018 60 million and this year the same funds were planned. The second question I would like to ask the Minister for Environmental Protection, and the compensation for protecting and improving the environment, which, after the adoption of the Law on compensation for the use of public goods at the end of last year, is no longer the income of local self-government. The question is whether, under the Regulation, compensation for the protection and improvement of the environment will be paid by legal persons who have started the process of obtaining an integrated licence, or will it be released as persons who had come forward before the time limit of the integrated authorisation? I note that legal persons also paid compensation to local self-government by 1 March 2019, both the largest polluters, such as Vitala, Sugarane and Carnexa. The revenues from that fee were five million at the monthly level, totaling 60 million. For all these reasons, the President of Vrbas Municipality Milan Glusac also addressed the Ministry of Finance with an application for the allocation of funds from the current budget reserve of the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of financial consolidation, since we have been found in the municipality of debts incurred before 2013. So far, 300 million debts have been paid back, and at one point the amount of these debts amounted to almost two budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58079	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Is there a danger of difficulties in Serbia's Eurointegration, given the growing intolerance of the aggressive minority in a society that increasingly challenges the right to think and speak to all those who think differently from them, and especially to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic? I do not have to mention that it is fundamental European values – freedom of expression, freedom of speech, etc. Why am I asking this? Because one part of our society, and that's mostly the part that was recognized in that syntagm by the fake elite, the quasi-elite, constantly executes a hickey against all those who don't share their views. If anyone thinks differently from them, and dares to say it publicly or write it, it is immediately shown in their media and on social networks, it is immediately placed on a pillar of shame, immediately being the subject of a lynch and immediately marked as a low-class being. As a rule, he gets an epithet of being uneducated, stupid, illiterate, retrograde in every sense, primitive, credential, etc. If, however, they cannot attach such a label to it, then they switch to ideological and political qualifications – fascists, chauvinists, totalitarians, changed radicals, etc. We are witnessing such a campaign these days against Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, because he went one step further and wrote an authorial text that analysed this phenomenon in Serbia not since yesterday, but has existed for decades, which is the insistence of these circles to divide the Serbian people into so-called. The elite and the common people. The next day after the publication of this text, everything that was recognized in this text, and alas and crow immediately rushed to condemn Alexander Vukic, while insulting him in the most brutal way, with a dose of their elitism. Some televisions, such as the School's N1 are preceded in the hajjjj, but there are also various printed bulletins of the Alliance for Serbia, both daily and weekly. The daily newsletter of the Alliance for Serbia, titled "Today", went the farthest in the hysteria, and for almost a week already are exclusively and only dealing with this text. They're sore in the truth. Every day we have various calls to experts, mostly those fake elitists who throw trees and stones at the Wolf. Everything there is, from self-proclaimed experts, to spent politicians, journalists trying, to self-proclaimed intellectuals. Everyone is welcome if they will attack Alexander Vukic, regardless of the profession and the definition, from Ljoticvac to "woman in Black", from the far left, to the extreme right, and conservativeism and liberalism. He can do anything if he's going to attack Alexander Wolf. Look at what it looks like. Here, “Today” says Vucic's dangerous orgy of radical pulsism. So here we have various conversators: Vladeta Jankovic, this is the one who was ambassador to the white world, so again, to be ambassador only fails, so Zarko Trebišanin, so Sanda Raskovic Ivić, the same ambassador, all the ambassadors themselves, and to ask them for the results of their service, the results are zero. So Marinika Tepic, so Zoran Lutovac, so we have Janko Baljak, Ognje Radonjic, Branislav Lečić, Marko Šelić Marcello, when I asked who he is, they say – sing something, play something, I don't know, singer. So you have five active politicians and one singer out of ten conversants. They're their experts. I see they're starting to sign some kind of petition, so they're bragging about how many signatures they've collected. Let's see who these signatories are, all the party activists or people who are formerly known as someone who hates Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Take care now: Zoran Zivkovic, leader of the New Party, then President of the Freedom and Justice Party, hear freedom and justice, Dragan Djilas, then journalist in the attempt by Slavisa Lekic, and historian Dubravka Stojanovic, who claimed that we committed genocide in Srebrenica, so Dusan Petricic, is the cartoonist who, in direct address on TV "N1", claimed that the Serbian people were stupid, uneducated, illiterate. There is also former Supreme Court President Vida Petrovic Skero, it is good that he is there, I was already scared. I have to admit, I'm very glad everyone's gathered there. I'm really glad everyone's there. The question arises – how do all these people always be signatories of the same petitions? If you will, just if you look, and in recent history, always those people or at least most of them were on the side of Serb enemies. They were always on the side that was opposed to Serbian national interests. They were the first to declare Serbia the sole culprit for the wars of the 1990s, the first to recognise some genocide in Srebrenica, the first to declare Republika Srpska a genocide, to make Kosovo independent. It's obviously a matter of deep frustration and hatred for...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58081	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58082	Here, I end up in one sentence. ... to their own people, because of frustration and impotence, because they know that the people do not believe them, and they know that the people believe and support Alexander Vukic, so they despise him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58083	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 3 to 5 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Zoran Djordjevic, with his associates. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall immediately apply for a word with the order of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Trade, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade and the Proposal for a Law on Stock Exchanges. We'll wait a few moments for Minister Djordjevic and his associates to enter the National Assembly room and give him our word. [[After a break.]] I would like to welcome Minister Djordjevic and his associates to the National Assembly. Welcome. Here, you have your word, Mr. Gjorgevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58085	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, are before you three laws. The first is the proposal for a trade law. The law was initiated by the rapid development of electronic trade in Serbia, as well as the need to continue the process of modernising the retail sector, which conditioned the need to adopt a completely new law on trade. Electronic trade in Serbia is growing significantly because last year 1.8 million people bought goods online, which is about 50% higher than in 2015. The number of e-commerce users increased by 18%, from the total number of Internet users in 2011, to 31% in 2018. E-commerce in Serbia last year achieved a turnover of $317m, up about 9% from 2017, and internet sales are expected to record turnover of about $350m this year. In order to create conditions for further development of online sales, the law contains provisions that regulate electronic trade in more detail. Namely, the first introduces the concepts of an electronic store where the trader sells its goods directly to the consumer and the online platform connecting the seller and the customers. Also, for the first time, the law recognises the business model of the sale of the ‘ply-plying’ already applied in practice, and takes place by not physically reaching the trader, but directly from the manufacturer, i.e. the importer travels to the buyer, which speeds up the delivery process and reduces the costs of the trader. In this way, the dilemmas in inspection supervision that caused legal uncertainty in e-traders will be removed because they were not recognised in the domestic legal system. An important legal paper also refers to the introduction of a secret purchase institute of "misters shopper", which gives authority to the inspector that in the event of a reasonable suspicion that trade is not registered, conducts a covert purchase and thus provides evidence. It also foresees the possibility of setting up incentive measures for e-traders, which will be organised closer by the government act to develop electronic trade and curb the grey economy, as it thus stimulates entry into legal flows. The previously mentioned Institute of Hidden Shopping will also contribute to this. It has just been one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and recently as a co-ordination body for curbing the grey economy, we have brought an action plan with a set of concrete measures. As chairman of the co-ordination body, Rasim Ljajic particularly stressed the importance that this change of law contributes to curbing the grey economy. In order to improve consumer protection, the proposal for a law is closer to certain and regulated sales and stimulating capacities by defining the basic forms of reduction, action sales, seasonal reductions and sales and for each of them specific rules. In this way, it prevents misleading business and misleading customers, which has been rarely done because different terms have been used in practice, which did not inform the customer on the right. The law also introduces a new division of retail trade in order to define the conditions for implementation, allowing for more effective control and combating the gray economy. A new division of the retail trade in a slightly different place of sale, trade in personal offerings and distance sales, i.e. trade, electronic trade and other remote trade through other means. The trade sector employs 19.3% of the total number of employees in Serbia, while the share of trade in GDP is moving around 10%. About 32% of the total number of registered operators operate in the large and small trade sector. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, this proposal represents a continuation of harmonisation with the EU, i.e. EU legislation, more specifically, with the e-commerce directive. The amendments and additions to this law are improved by electronic business through fine-tuning, but at the same time provides more effective inspection supervision in this segment of business. One of the important newspapers is to introduce a mechanism for removing illicit and illegal content from the Internet. In particular, it is possible for competent authorities to adopt acts requiring a specific provider of information society services, such as Internet owners, to remove inaccessible content, hate speech, etc., and to do so immediately and no later than two days. Non-removal of illicit content has been sanctioned from 100,000,00 dinars to 1,500,000,00 dinars for legal persons, and from 10,000,00 to 300,000,00 dinars for entrepreneurs. The paper is that sending commercial messages such as SMS and e-mail, such as a channel where traders promote their goods, only allows for prior consumer consent, which is intended for such goods. Such a form of unwanted address to the consumer by sending unwanted messages by electronic means from the aspect of consumer law is considered a dissuasive, unfair business practice. Sending commercial messages past the consent of the person to whom it is sent, the amendment of the law is also unlawfully sanctioned by a fixed fine of 100,000,00 dinars for the legal person, i.e. 20.000,00 dinars for the entrepreneur. The amendments to the law also prescribe obligations for data storage, the IP address of users, information society services for a minimum of 30 days after the termination of the provision of that service. This obligation applies to transmitters, e.g. owners of various online platforms through which other traders advertise, i.e. advertise their products and it is very important, i.e. a significant mechanism for determining responsibility for the content of the messages sent. All of this indicates that in the next period, more effective control of electronic operators will be made, as the inspection authorities will be able, through the obligation to keep an IP address, to access the right content publisher, and through the introduction of infringement orders, supervision will be more effective. The amendments to the law also allow cross-border provision of information society services, so that on the day of EU entry, domestic providers registered in Serbia will be able to legally settle in EU member states on equal terms, as well as vice versa. You have before you a bill on stock exchanges. This is the first time legal regulation has been introduced in Serbia in the area of trade in commodity markets. This means that there is no regulatory body in Serbia that issues labour permits and controls the stock market, and there are no safeguards that guarantee the payment of the seller, or delivery of goods to the buyer. The Stock Exchange Act will provide the basis for the development of the stock market, and the key paper is greater trade security, which will be made possible in several ways. First, this law will give the stock exchange greater authority, but also the obligation to see control and guarantee transactions through the stock market. The comparisons for the sake of this, the productive stock market in Novi Sad has so far not even had much authority, it can even be said that it has done more business as a brokerage house, because it has not had the main mechanisms needed for modern stock exchange operations. The big news is that in future all participants in transactions on the stock market, therefore, the buyer and the stock market will have to lay down guarantees for which there was no possibility so far. The production stock is guaranteed through a founding stake of 50,000.000,00 dinars, and the buyer and seller will be subject to guarantees whose height is determined by the stock market. These guarantees will be placed on the stock exchange's dedicated account to be excluded from the blockade and will only be activated in cases where one party fails to fulfil its obligations to the other. A very important newspaper is the introduction of a Securities Committee as a regulator, which will control the work of both the stock exchange and the transaction, which the stock exchange members conclude in the stock market business. This directly affects the security of the entire system and the removal of abuses, such as price setting or such. For the first time in a quality way, the law regulates the spot market, but also more importantly, as it opens up the possibility of forward trading via the stock market. The stock market will be able to trade domestic and foreign legal persons, as well as individual agricultural producers. Foreign companies have not traded through a productive market in Novi Sad so far, as there was no guarantee system to allow them to deliver goods of the same quality in large quantities, which will now be resolved through the seller's obligation to make guarantees. This creates a basis for increasing exports, but also for positioning Serbia as a regional centre for trade in agricultural products. The law will allow greater reliability of information on the price developments of stock exchanges, as we will be given a place where a reper price which is publicly available at any time can be established in the stock exchange. Maximum threats to legal persons in the event of violations of legal provisions move up to three million dinars. Dear People's MPs, in voting day, I urge you to vote for these three laws, which will essentially improve trade in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58086	Thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. I will now give my word to the rapporteur of the committee responsible for the economy, Mrs Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the promoters, Mr Minister, honourable MPs, esteemed citizens, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy discussed the proposed laws we are discussing today at the 44th session. You've heard the motionary's representative, so we don't repeat ourselves, I'll say the following. The development of the trade and especially retail sector of the economy has a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors and their participants. Official EU documents point out that retailing is a key link between manufacturers and final consumers, but also has a major impact on the environment by providing direct links to the development of rural and urban areas to users and providers of logistics and transport services, as well as on the use of energy and waste-related entities, as well as cross-border product purchasers. The existing Trade Act, which was in force and was adopted in 2010, amended in 2013, has made significant changes in terms of general conditions for the conduct of trade on the internal market. The modern nomenclature and classification of forms and methods of trade, the new institutes, as well as the legal framework for the promotion of trade, in particular for the establishment and preservation of the favourable structure of trade facilities and the development of entrepreneurship, and all in order to develop the competition and equality of traders. Meanwhile, a reform of inspection supervision has been carried out, which is a hardworking market inspection. In this regard, application has shown that certain provisions need to be reconsidered. The proposal for this law that we are discussing today, the Law on Trade, has created a new division of trade that is in line with the rights and obligations of the Consumer Protection Act. Also, it was necessary to identify where the system sold via the counter, booths and kiosks, specialized vehicles and others. Given that internet sales have increased participation in total retail traffic, there was a need for more detailed regulation. Its development has resulted in certain deviations due to inaccurate legal solutions, so it was necessary to anticipate adequate mechanisms to sanction this behaviour. The reason for legislative intervention was to comply with the Inspective Control Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act, in order to reduce the share of the grey economy in our market. Since it was necessary to intervene more than half of the provisions in force in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the making of the rules, it was necessary to propose a new law governing this activity. In 2016, the Ministry's Working Group worked on this bill, which regulates all transport in the Republic of Serbia and relations between the participants in this transport as part of the trade strategy by 2020. One of the conclusions of the working group was that it was necessary to regulate electronic trade more closely, as one way to conduct a trade that recorded very intense growth. In addition to the creation of the Law on Trade, it was necessary to make certain amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade, bearing in mind that these are two complementary rules, which in a comprehensive way regulate the market for goods and services. By applying the Law on Electronic Trade, it contained insufficiently clear provisions that created certain obstacles in proper understanding and application in practice. Amendments and additions shall be made to the normative corrections and clarifications of certain institutes in order to avoid interpretations which may appear and introduce legal uncertainty in practice. The proposed amendments and additions of the Law on Electronic Trade are not limited in any way to the freedom of the market, services and information society, but are improved by regulating mandatory information relating to the notification of the service provider, mandatory data prior to the conclusion of the contract, conditions for the fullness of the contract, as well as the procedure for the conclusion of the contract in order to transparency of business and the protection of users of services and consumers. The issue of commercial services, its sending, as well as the responsibility of the service provider are further regulated. This law only regulates the right framework for the provision of information society services and strives to do so with minimum restrictions so as not to create excessive obstacles to the performance and maintain legal certainty. Therefore, this proposal also represents a continuation of the legal harmonisation process with European legislation, i.e. the Electronic Trade Directive. And third, most interesting and equally important, the bill of law is a bill on the establishment of a stock exchange that, as you have heard, we have brought for the first time. The formation of the stock market has many benefits, such as facilitating trade conclusion, market price formation, their time and spatial balance, and then providing greater legal certainty, fostering economic development, education and notification of market participants about economic developments. The creation of a modern stock exchange and the development of video and future stock exchanges contributes to the construction of a market-oriented economy and, firstly, the agricultural product sector. This law establishes the necessary legal institutional frameworks for the development of trade in forward contracts. It thus provides the basis for the introduction of mechanisms that eliminate the highest business risks in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law is also of multiple benefit to the public sector. The organisation of a system of support for agriculture through market intervention mechanisms is enabled, and the expected effects include more efficient management of stock reserves, as well as improvement of agricultural and agrobusiness development policy. There is currently no adequate legal framework for the development of stock exchanges in the Republic of Serbia, so precise regulation of the term and spot of stock exchanges through a comprehensive commodity stock exchange law, as well as a clear definition of the law enforcement measures would help reduce the current exposure of the economy to risks, especially small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture. In this way, the economy will be able to use derivatives, as one of the instruments of risk management, especially in the domain of risk management at the price of agricultural products. The adoption of these laws does not require additional funding in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, these bill proposals do not create new costs and burdens for the economy in the Republic of Serbia, and the aim is to create an environment in which energy effects of combining traditional and electronic trade will be fully expressed. The regulations governing market functioning in a simpler and more transparent way, which do not have barriers, affect the rise in efficiency of the economy, but also the development of competition in the trade sector, strong competition will lead to lower prices, all in order to ensure consumer well-being. Therefore, it would be good to continue with the practice of public debates, as this, as well as obtaining the Commission's opinion on the protection of competition, gives additional certainty in the adoption of new laws and their application and avoidance of subsequent obstacles and cohesion that may arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58088	Thank you, Mrs. Petrovic. I am now asking the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, if they want a word. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58089	Thank you. The chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us a set of laws in the area of trade, and this proposal for a law on trade as a roof law, but also a proposal for a law on electronic trade and a bill on commodity markets. The importance of these laws is, we also heard in the opening presentation of the Minister, but also the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, very important. Trade is primarily an important activity without which it would not meet the basic needs of the population, above all. I note that the development of the trade sector, and in particular the retail sector of the economy, has both a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors and their participants. The reason for the law says that trade is primarily a key link between manufacturers and final consumers, but that it also has a significant impact on the direct link between rural and urban areas. The important parameter is the fact that the store is employed, and we heard it in the prime minister's opening statement, 19% of the total number of employees, and that the share of trade in GDP is about 10%. The store had its own historical development, evolved from trade in goods exchanges to modern forms of trade in the 21st century, which treat electronic trade, distance trade and all other forms which primarily this set of laws and deals with. The new law on trade, therefore, is adopted as a roof law that primarily modernises matter, i.e. the trade sector, in a more modern way, following global and European achievements and standards in this sector. It introduces a system of distance trade, especially electronic trade, which is a form of remote trade and which, more importantly, seems to me, introduces a stock exchange institute that is of great importance to us as significant producers, above all agricultural products. As I have already said, e-commerce and the stock market are being elaborated and regulated by the special laws we are discussing today and will be discussed in more detail by my colleagues in the course of the session. This law regulates all elements of trade, market instruments, forms of trade and all procedures that protect against an unfair competition that is infinitely important. Trade and competition mean a freely regulated and loyal market. Intrinsic competition makes the free market impossible and needs to be sanctioned primarily by legal solutions. Each free market game implies that a buyer can get a good offer for a price. This good supply also implies the quality of the product, i.e. to obtain the best quality for a specific and appropriate price. It is very important to find on the market as many domestic products as possible, which are of a quality and quantity, really able to compete with a foreign offer. I'm always in favour of promoting domestic products and first of all buying domestic products. The law also recognizes the store for a little while, but also the wholesale. In doing so, under the retail trade, facilities such as hypermarkets are included. I would really like to keep from this competition of large shops and large sales chains, however, our small shops and grocery stores that are not in a position to withstand such a great competition. These small shops are masha with domestic goods, they should be protected and preserved in some way, as countries favoring their domestic products do. The law also specify all market institutions, specify standards and specify trading conditions within these institutions, and there are stock exchanges, fairs, markets, etc. By branding domestic products, i.e. branding in itself is one important step towards the recognizability of our products on the market and is perhaps the most significant step towards better valorisation. I'm really someone who's in favor of branding both our ajvar and prosciutto and the kajamak and everything we consider domestic products that are absolutely acceptable and seem to me to be nice to strangers. What is important is to stress that the stock market is a special form of a market institution that allows manufacturers and customers to meet for trading or promotion of brands or products, where only samples are brought on the market. The direct consequence of the lack of an adequate legal framework is a barrier for foreign investors and domestic natural persons to invest in an organised stock market. Business trade models that apply the productive stock market in Novi Sad allow us to control the trading and protection of participants in the stock exchange and recognise exclusively domestic legal persons as trading participants. We heard from the minister's explanation that this law primarily refers to improving these services. The adoption of a special law on commodity markets achieves better support for exports, taking into account that grain exports dominate the structure of the total exports of the Republic of Serbia. It is clear why support for this segment is particularly important. In agricultural products, Serbia records a surplus of about $1.6 billion, data from 2016, while agricultural exports account for around 11.91% of Serbia's total exports. Exporters will be given the opportunity to know in advance and can contract the price of goods, primarily cereals and industrial plants. This will allow them to plan their business precisely and to protect themselves from risks in a manner similar to their foreign competitors. Laws also allow for the establishment of a modern stock market, as well as the construction of a market-oriented entire agro-sector and economy. The establishment of the necessary legal and institutional framework for the development and trading of derivatives provides the basis for the introduction of agricultural derivatives that reduce the highest business risks in the Republic of Serbia. As I personally consider agriculture and agricultural production to be of great importance, I would particularly refer to this section of the Stock Exchange Act, as the stock exchange is a very important Institute for Sale, or Trade in Agricultural Products. Serbia is a country of agriculture, the climate in which we live provides rich and diverse agricultural production, and developed agriculture is one of the factors of development, as well as the security factor of a country, so I would particularly refer to the stock market, which includes trade in agricultural products. The state has its own measures to encourage agricultural production, which is the basis, but the state must also enable the valorisation of the hard work of our agricultural producers, fruit growers, farmers, vegetables, cereals and all other products that are valorised on the market. This means that the need to be even closer and more precise is seen to regulate the way in which agricultural products will be purchased organised, but also the way in which the stock market can be traded specifically with strategic agricultural products, such as cereals, flour, sugar, oil, meat, etc. For all of these reasons, I really believe that the proposed legal framework in the form of the Stock Exchange Act, which regulates the way goods are traded on the stock market, is extremely important and very good. So, we now have a newly-sold product stock market that sells strategic agricultural products, but the practice has shown that there are weaknesses in this productive stock market, that there is a need to trade agricultural products, expand to others, for us important products that should not be under dumping prices, as a result of unfair competition, but the privileged positions of certain large traders or buyers. Unfortunately, this is happening today with raspberries and cherries, and in some parts farmers have begun to extract raspberries and cut trees and famous "cloud" cherries, because prices are so low that production is a clean loss for our producers. The internal market is looking for these products, so I believe that legal regulation of productive stock exchanges will introduce a loyal competition for our agricultural products, thereby re-affirming the old and encouraging new agricultural holdings to increase production and quality, primarily agricultural products. Of course, there remains a significant role of the state in providing incentives, especially for small and medium-sized producers, because they need resources. I remain at my earlier position, which is that large producers should invest in the processing of agricultural products, so that our processed products can be found on the stock market, which are also known, jams, compotes, juices, ajvar, dried fruit and vegetables, and not just raw products that we get from the manufacturer. The above problems result in the fact that domestic economy and farmers are smaller competitors, compared to the parties, which are allowed to improve business planning and hedge risks and raw materials prices. The lower degree of competitiveness of the domestic economy, compared to the antiquity, causes irreparable damage. Taking into account all the parameters and importance of the laws ahead of us, I note that the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws in the hope that this is the first step towards improvement, primarily our trading system, but also our better and better quality attitude towards domestic small producers, which I think are infinitely important to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58090	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here's a colleague of the Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58091	I thank the President-in-Office, the price of the ministers with associates, fellow MPs, in front of us today, there are three extremely important laws on the agenda, which will support the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in the voting day. In relation to the current Law on Trade and the Law on Electronic Trade, the proposals for the new Law on Trade and Amendments and the addition of the Law on Electronic Trade are more detailed in the electronic trade and its models, as well as the obligations of traders who do so. It is primarily a reflection of the trend in e-commerce growth and its expansion, primarily on the world's but also on the domestic market. It is commendable that the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications has recognised the importance and need for this form of trade to be regulated in more detail, above all by improving the legislative framework in this area. What is also commendable is the fact that the draft laws were done in close co-operation with the economy, that is, the participation of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the National Alliance for Economic Development, as well as the informal group of the most significant service providers in the field of electronic trade in Serbia. It is widely known that the number of computer and internet users in the Republic of Serbia is constantly growing. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute in 2018, over three million and 750 thousand people have used a computer in the last three months, making up 70.7% of citizens. By 3.3% the number of computer users increased compared to 2017, by 4.5% compared to 2016 and by 5.9% compared to 2015. The number of payment transactions of goods and services via the Internet has increased, with an increase of 2 million and 750 thousand transactions in 2015 to 10 million and 200 000 in 2018. In 2015 payments were made with a payment card and on home websites 26.86% of transactions were made while not abroad 73.14%, and in 2018 payments were made alongside payment cards and using e-money as well as electronic banking. On domestic websites, 32.27% of transactions were realised while on foreign sites were 67.73%. I don't think it's too much to mention that courier services are seeing an ever-increasing increase in shipments ordered online, shipping shipments in the area of e-commerce has a stake in as much as 25%. In addition to all these results, our reality is that we have, however, been in practice, faced with the huge mistrust of citizens in electronic trade and therefore more than 40% of the internet in Serbia has never bought online, and that a large number of electronic sellers have failed to comply with the prescribed laws regarding classical e-commerce, as well as that there are major problems in the cost of product distribution especially in the cross-border trade segment, which tells us that further development of electronic trade with the adoption of new regulations is necessary to increase citizens' confidence in this form of purchase and that the maximum work is being done to prevent the grey economy in this area, which is largely possible for these draft laws. Looking at the text of the proposed laws, I must commend the introduction of a brand new concept in the first members of the proposed Law on Trade, which for the first time defines an electronic store and an electronic platform. The electronic store or web shop represented a form of trade in which consumers ordered goods directly from the trader, i.e. from his internet presentation, and the trader delivered the goods from his warehouse, i.e. warehouses. In the case of an electronic platform on the other hand, the consumer is a contractual relationship with the trader but the payment procedure is not made by the trader but also through a platform which is also in a contractual relationship with the trader, although the platform also has the possibility of direct sales of goods to consumers. It occurs most often in the form described, i.e. as a bond between the trader and the consumer. In further members of the law, a whole new system of division of trade has been proposed. First, the basic classification of trade in large, retail and provision of services was carried out, and further members and more detailed division of trade in a small way according to the way in which they are performed. Thus, since the adoption of the new Law on Trade, the trade would be slightly divided into a store in a place of sale, a trade in personal introduction and a distance trade. Under the store at the point of sale would be a store that takes place in fixed facilities such as shops and boxing but also one that is carried out in portable facilities such as reapers, gigs and machines. Given that there is no definition of bone, weight and machine in the applicable Law on Trade, the proposed legal provisions and sublegal acts that will later be passed would finally determine their concept on our market, thus removing doubts and facilitating inspection. As regards distance trade, i.e. by means of remote communication, its regulation, special attention is given in the proposed Trade Act. The aim of the detailed arrangement was to protect consumers who, due to physical distance, had no direct insight into the subject of purchase and offer of traders. It is proposed that remote trade be divided into electronic trade and other trade through other means. Electronic trade is a form of remote trade that is achieved by offering goods or services, ordering, selling online, and what can be done in different ways. First, there's a possibility of selling through an electronic store, an electronic platform I've already talked about. On the other hand, there is the possibility of selling via an electronic store and a platform, but so that although the consumer is in a contractual relationship with a trader who owns an electronic store or a goods platform is not delivered from the storeroom of the trader, it is directly from the warehouse of the manufacturer. The wholesaler. As far as other stores are concerned, it would include all remote shops not performed via the Internet, but through other means of mass communication, such as catalogical sales, TV sales, mail-based trade, advertising materials, telephones, text and multimedia telephone messages and voice machines. What the new law on trade also brings us, and what has not been precisely regulated so far, refers to the regulation of specific market institutions. Thus, the proposed law foresees and clearly defines what specific market institutions can exist and divides them into stock exchanges, fairs, business exhibitions and traditional manifestations, markets, Wellnesses and auction houses, with a clear provision that these special market institutions cannot participate either as sellers or as shoppers whose organisers are. It is interesting that unlike the applicable Law on Trade, the proposed law on trade provides that organisers of business exhibitions, traditional manifestations will be obliged to point out: name, duration of event, record space, keep records of persons who expose or sell goods, as well as provide conditions for the presence and operation of competent inspections. The reasons for the closer regulation of these market rules are major abuses that are present in practice. The idea to sell exclusively goods in such manifestations, which is in line with the customs related to the setting of such activities, in this area, but to be legal. In practice, this means that various traditional events, such as ‘Rostiljada’, ‘Cobasicada’, and others, fairs, festivals and all those events where certain goods are sold as part of cultural music, sports and other activities, will also have to be clearly prescribed obligations for traders who sell goods on them, which satisfy regulations for any other store in the place of sale. The new law on trade precises the sale with a reduced price that can be: sale, seasonal downturn or action sales. In the case of the sale of the proposed law, the obligation of the trader to physically allocate the goods subject to sale from the sale of goods under regular conditions is prescribed. From the date of publication of the sale until the end of the sale, the trader shall not be allowed to order, including the sale of a new quantity of goods subject to sale. The seasonal decline is the sale of goods at a lower price after the season and has been regulated legally in 10 EU member states. In these countries, maintenance of seasonal decline is mainly foreseen twice a year, in winter and summer. Thus, for example, in Slovenia there are two fixed terms – winter, which cannot begin before the first working Monday in January and summer, before the second working Monday in July and should not last longer than two months. French merchants can also have only two seasonal reductions annually and they cannot last more than six weeks. In accordance with this practice in other countries and this proposal for a law on trade, which is set before us by the seasonal downturn, no more than twice a year. It will begin between December 25th and January 10th winter, and July 1st and 15th summer and will be able to last up to 60 days after the seasonal decline. In line with all the above, as I have already said at the beginning of my address, the PS, NSS and USS parliamentary group will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58092	Thank you, bag buddy. The word has the mandated representative of SDPS National MP Slavica Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58093	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, respected representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have very important laws, a new law on trade and a proposal for a draft amendment to the e-commerce Act, as well as a proposal for a stock exchange law. I'll talk in my presentation about the first two points of the agenda. It'll be about the Stock Exchange Act that my colleagues will be talking about in the course of the session. The long-term application of the applicable Trade Act has shown that certain provisions should be amended. The need to meet the requirements of the practices that occurred during application has provided the need to adopt a modern-day regulation. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications established a working group in 2016, with the aim of reviewing existing rules and finding ways to modernise the existing regulation. As more than half of the members of the existing law were found to require a fundamental change during the work, a decision was made to make a whole new law, which would finally ensure the smooth functioning of the market. In accordance with the new Law on Trade, certain amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade are also conditional, given that these are two complementary rules governing the market for goods and services in a comprehensive way. The application of the Law on Electronic Trade contained insufficiently clear provisions, which created certain obstacles to legal understanding and application in practice. Amendments and additions shall be made to the corrections and clarifications of certain institutes, in order to avoid interpretations which may appear in practice and introduce legal uncertainty. In addition, the bill constitutes a continuation of the legal harmonisation process with European legislation, i.e. the Electronic Trade Directive. As the market for electronic trade is in constant growth and development, the development of changes and additions to this law has been preceded by an e-commerce survey in the Republic of Serbia under the project "Increasing Electronic Trade in the Republic of Serbia". In this respect, the amendments and additions to this law are made in the symbiosis of all previous activities, comparative legal analysis and economic analysis of the market, as well as the summation of all suggestions of interested parties in the process of drafting this law. The fact that 45% of online users have never bought or ordered online goods or services suggests that it is necessary to invest in the development of this area, above all to improve the law, and to strengthen consumer confidence in this kind of trade with a view to fostering faster development of electronic trade. In the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, an Interresor Working Group with the task of identifying obstacles to the development of electronic trade and the preparation of an action plan to improve electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia. Strengthening electronic trade in Serbia in the framework of project co-operation involves identifying and removing barriers that make it difficult and slowing the development of electronic trade on the domestic market with the aim of achieving a competitive advantage of the local market in the region, but continue to develop in line with trends and challenges characterised by the world's largest online market, such as the Chinese market and the US markets. The forecasts are that by 2030, more than 85% of companies will be engaged globally in electronic trade and that it is necessary for Serbia to develop this area to exploit all technological potential for economic progress. The biggest challenge in strengthening electronic trade in Serbia is how to increase citizens' confidence in this form of buying and selling and preventing the gray economy in the trade. In February 2019, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications held public discussions on the draft law on trade and amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade. I was one of the participants in these public debates because doing work in the Construction Material Industry, of course, we deal seriously with both markets and all kinds of promotion of trade in the Republic of Serbia. A large number of those present are enough to indicate how important this area is in the Republic of Serbia, and knowing how many people are currently employed in the trade sector and how many people live from trade in the Republic of Serbia and that 10% of GDP is provided from the trade sector. During the discussion, a number of issues and suggestions from participants were discussed, which primarily referred to the need for more detailed and advanced regulation of electronic trade in Serbia. For this reason, most of the changes introduced in the area of trade relate to this particular issue, i.e. the issue of electronic business. I will highlight some of the significant changes the new Law on Trade makes, which I believe are important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The first members of the proposed Trade Act have introduced a whole new concept, which, among other things, defines for the first time an electronic store and an electronic platform. In further members, a completely new system of division of trade has been proposed and a basic classification for retail trade has been carried out largely on retail trade and provision of services in further members and a more detailed division of retail trade according to the way in which it is performed. Thus, since the adoption of this Law on Trade, the trade would be slightly divided into a store in a place of sale, a trade in personal offering and a distance trade. As regards distance trade, i.e. by means of remote communication, its regulation pays special attention to the proposed Trade Act. The aim of the detailed arrangement was to protect consumers who, due to physical distance, had no direct insight into the subject of purchase and offer of traders. What the new Trade Act has also adopted, and what has not been specified and regulated so far, concerns the regulation of specific market institutions. Thus, the proposed Trade Act foresees and clearly defines what specific market institutions can exist and divides them into the stock market, fair, business exhibitions and traditional manifestations. It is interesting that unlike the applicable Law on Trade, the proposed Law on Trade provides that not all goods can be sold on traditional manifestations, but only those which are the subject of the mentioned event. I would stress here the major changes that the new law makes, as far as sales prices are concerned, because I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will meet on a daily basis. For the purpose of consumers as weak parties on the market, it will no longer be enough to highlight only the price in the unit of measurement in which the goods are already in place, but it will be necessary to point out what price it would be if the goods were sold in other units of measures, such as, for example, meters, kilograms, liters. In this way, the consumer will be able to compare prices of different sizes of goods and make the most favourable choice for him. Secondly, the price of goods sold and services provided by electronic means no longer needs to be highlighted in domestic currency, but can be highlighted in foreign currency. With these changes, consumers from all countries of the world have the opportunity to show the sales price of the total offer of traders in the currencies they otherwise use. Something about a new law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade. The law on electronic trade in large part has already been harmonised with EU directives. However, despite modern solutions in the current provisions, almost six years have passed since the adoption of the last amendments, and there has been a need for their improvement and further alignment with the EU's e-commerce directive. Given the advanced solutions to the applicable Law on Electronic Trade, the proposal on its amendments and additions contains significantly less newspapers than the proposal for a new Law on Trade. The changes, above all, concern the precision of the already existing legal text formulations, as well as the resolution of existing definitions, which so far have led to ambiguity or inequality in application. The definitions of users and service providers, as well as commercial messages, have been changed. The definition of electronic communications operator has been introduced. Also, some concepts, such as the concept of consumers, have been changed to comply with certain provisions of the applicable Trade Act. In addition to the needs for modernisation already mentioned, all the changes described were necessary in order to increase legal certainty. As is known, the internet is very susceptible to the development of the gray economy, and it is necessary that the more precise legal arrangement is done, so that supervisory authorities can carry out the most successful market control in Serbia, including the electronic market. In Serbia, over the past year, millions and 800,000 people bought or ordered goods and services by electronic means, while 73% of citizens used the internet. It is a major shift compared to previous years, which says that although electronic trade in Serbia has been growing in recent years, it has not yet been sufficiently developed. Based on some of the research conducted in our country, internet users in Serbia are largely lagging behind in consumption, which is the biggest problem in the development of the electronic form of buying and selling. In our country there are also great barriers on the side of the offer, such as fear and ignorance. Many would join the electronics store, but they're afraid they'll know they're using it in the right way. According to an e-commerce survey conducted in the framework of a project to boost electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia, the most frequent users and customers are young. Among consumers who have doubts about such a trade is 43% of respondents. They're still afraid they'll get the wrong product. I would have to give an example here from the economy when we talk about the state of the market and the changes that multinational companies bring to us by entering our market. I work in Serbia's construction material industry and I work intensively to analyze the market, when we talk about production, sales and exports, which serve as the basis for plans for the next period. What was observed in the previous period is that ownership transformations occurred in this part of the economy, that several factories were privatised by multinational companies. The entry of these companies into the territory of the Republic of Serbia means the transfer of a certain mode of work. It's extremely important here when we talk about offering and selling certain products. Despite the suggestion of an existing management that it is not possible to fully transfer to Serbia's market the scratch that multinational companies have, however, insisted on this type of sale. But after the first quarter, there was a significant decline in sales. There's this famous minus that represents an alarm that all the actors in this chain sit down and try to find a solution to overcome this problem. Of course, the solution was in the mix of those advanced sales methods and these traditional ones that existed on the market of the Republic of Serbia. What is extremely important, it did not give up on this kind of sales, but the accent remained on the e-sale and continued strengthening of all necessary resources in order to complete the crossover in an electronic way because it is the kind of sales that saves both time and money to the owner, and that is the only thing that interests every owner. I believe that in the coming period, we must try to remove all obstacles that make it difficult to develop electronic trade in Serbia in order for Serbia's economy to be able to develop in line with the trends of the world's largest electronic markets, such as Chinese and American. According to the International Index of the Digital Economy of Society, Serbia managed to jump to 34th place from 45th in 2013. Electronic trade is much more than a unilateral way for consumers to make purchases and sales. It is an important driver of economic and social development, especially the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the one hand, we have the entry of multinational companies and the transfer of knowledge that they are trying to transfer to our market by their arrival in the Serbian market and trying to educate the existing management in order to adopt the knowledge they apply on the European and world markets. Of course, he's very quick to move on to his sales systems. What is the problem is that small, medium and micro enterprises, which do not have this kind of education and this kind of support. Therefore, I think it is necessary to do all the necessary education, workshops, to provide in every way the necessary knowledge in this part, because I think that in the domain of electronic trade there is insufficient knowledge in all sectors. A warm recommendation to the ministry, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and Trade Chains associations, has them whether by their ownership structure or size, that all necessary efforts must be made in the next period in order to education, which in raising the level of awareness when we talk about electronic trade, as an incentive to entrepreneurs and to help them move faster into a modern way of trade that is very important and that has won the world. If we don't catch up with advanced countries, I can't say the environment, because we're above the countries of the environment, but if we don't catch up with the countries of Europe and the world, we'll be in a position to lose our market. We have to work intensively on that in the next period. Therefore, all the support and the Ministry of Trade for all the efforts that have been done in the past, and I believe everything that is planned for the next period, and I know that the campaign plan that will aim to raise awareness among the population about electronic trade, and I think that we need to be aware of the number of people who depend on trade today in Serbia, on behalf of all those people who work in trade and those who do this seriously, we need to deal with this very responsibly. The SDPS MPs will support a set of laws on the agenda of today's session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58094	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group National MP Ana Čaapic. Here you go, colleague Charapic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58095	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Djordjevic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, today we have two brand-new draft laws and this is the proposal for a law on trade, a bill on commodity markets and a law where we have proposed amendments and additions to the existing law, it is the Law on Electronic Trade. When it comes to the Law on Electronic Trade, the aim is to bring the existing law in line with EU legislation, but also with the modern conditions of business. All three draft laws, which we are going to discuss today, have passed a public debate, i.e. were available on the website of the resolution ministry, so that representatives of the state authorities, representatives of the economy, the professional public and other stakeholders could be made known about the laws themselves and a good part of these proposals and suggestions became an integral part of the law. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all ministries are actually the service of citizens, so that laws are adopted and passed in order to improve the lives of citizens and facilitate business. Also, the adoption of laws, which we are currently discussing, will not cause any costs for the economy, nor for the citizens, on the contrary, will affect the reduction of costs and the improvement of life and business conditions. When it comes to the proposal for a law on trade, therefore, it is a whole new law, which aims to regulate all traffic in the Republic of Serbia legally, regulate procurement and sales and relations between the participants in the traffic. First of all, it was necessary to bring the existing law into line with the Law on Inspective Control and the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was done with this bill. One reason for the new law is that the existing law has not precisely regulated electronic trade, which is increasingly represented in total traffic. With new legal solutions, the issue is precisely regulated. The paper of the Law on Trade is that inspectors will be able to make hidden purchases, when it comes to electronic trade, which will allow the detection of both illegal trade and the repression of the gray economy and unfair competition. Therefore, the end consumers, or we customers, will have much more security when doing online shopping, or shopping. The paper is that for the first time we will have a precisely defined sale, seasonal reductions and action sales. It will be known that twice a year we have seasonal clothing and footwear reductions, from July 1st to July 15th and winter from December 25th to January 10th, for up to 60 days. In the case of sales, it relates predominantly to goods sold at a lower price than existing and in cases of complete termination of the work of the trader or termination of work in certain facilities or termination of the sale of certain goods, so that traders will no longer be able to include and order the sale of new quantities of goods. What is significant is that traders will be obliged to fill out certain forms containing data that cannot actually be collected from existing records. These are data concerning retail facilities, i.e. data relating to where retail facilities are located, which are areas. This is, above all, important because both the Resolute Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have adequate information so that they can implement macroeconomic policy in our country. What attracted my attention in particular, which is in the light of the law itself, is the fact that in 2005 a record number of small shops was recorded in Serbia, with 109,212, which is said to be 61,185 in 2017. So we have less for 48,000 stores. To be clear, the number of small shops has been reduced, and the number of workers employed in trade chains has been increased because supermarkets and markets are present. In my opinion, that's excellent progress and an excellent indicator that there has been a rise in living standards. It is expected that in 2005, we have such a large number of small shops, because at the time they were in the middle of a robbery privatisation, that famous layoff of over half a million people, over 2,000 factories were closed, etc. Since the people had no money, they were popular shops in the neighborhood and shopping on so-called. The line. It looked about like this - go to the store, get bread and bread, just to feed your family that day, and while you know the store owner or the merchant, you won't pay right away, but we'll pay when we have money. We'll pay when we get some church girl, as our people would say, or some social aid, or if we happen to be able to sell something that we acquired before we arrived. It is that prices in such shops were much higher, but we really had no choice. Now that people are working, when we have employed hundreds of thousands of new workers, when we have opened over 150 new factories, when the average net earnings in Serbia have been significantly increased, i.e. in 2012 was 330 euros, it is now 463 euros, it is normal to open trade chains in Serbia, such as the German Lidla and others. Of course, when citizens work and receive, they want to buy more quality goods at a better price, because they will be able to pay immediately, without headaches and other diseases that we have all had since 2003, until the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic at the head of the state. The record regime recorded an unemployment rate of 27%, and we managed to halve the unemployment rate in just a few years, and it is 11.9%. Of course, in the last seven years it has been working and building, shopping centres, such as "Capitol Park", opened in Šapac, Sombor, Rakovica, Zajecara, recently also in Leskovac. Then there is Austria's Stop Shop, and in September 2017 the Rajicve mall was opened, recently also "Ada Mol". Construction of a shopping centre on Starar, i.e. on Vojislav Ilic Street, is under way. In the course of construction and the largest shopping centre in the region to be, it is part of the project "Belgrade on Water". Well, not foreign trade chains come to Serbia because Serbia has beautiful eyes, but because the purchasing power of all citizens in Serbia has been increased. There is a greater demand for both wide-use goods and luxury goods, but also for investment goods. The reason for the law states that 19.3% of the total number of employees are employed in the store and that trade participates with 10% in the creation of GDP, and I will only add that all shopping centres that are built in Serbia are engaged in our domestic construction companies and our domestic building materials are being built in, which means that one whole chain is moving. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, in the first quarter of 2019, total registered employment increased by 2.7% compared to the same quarter of 2018, i.e. we managed to employ more than 55,000 people for a little less than a year, of which in 2019 we employed 29,399 workers in the processing industry sector, so industry really works well and works for us, then, 10,144 workers in the construction sector, 7,763 are professional, scientific, innovation and technical work, then, 7,213 workers work more for us in the large and small sector, etc. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, other than harmonising the existing law with EU legislation, the aim is to remove the inaccuracies and inaccuracies of the existing law. The new legal solution provides for the fullness of electronic contracts, unless some other law provides otherwise, so unless another law provides that the contractor's signatures must be certified and such is the case, for example, with a guarantee contract that cannot be concluded in electronic form. Also, the law regulates and sends commercial messages that will be possible only with the consent of the person, i.e. the recipient of the messages. So far, we've all had a situation where text messages keep coming in, e-mails of a promotional character, they won't be able to do it anymore because the senders of such messages will have to follow the impeachments of a person who doesn't want to receive messages of a promotional character, or of us who don't want to receive messages from a commercial type. If the senders of such messages do not stop sending us such messages, they will be punished, a fine of 100,000 dinars is provided if it is a legal person, or 20,000 if it is an entrepreneur. Also, the draft law amending and supplementing the e-commerce law provides for the removal of illicit content from the Internet. So this is where you take care of human rights and freedoms, as well as the rights of minors. Therefore, legal solutions allow competent authorities to adopt sub-legislative acts in order to remove illicit content within two days. Sentences are scheduled, if not done, to a million and a half dinars for legal persons, or 300,000 dinars for entrepreneurs. For the development of electronic trade and the increasing involvement of internet sales, we owe great gratitude to the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance. Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, with her team in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, managed not only to maintain a low inflation rate of 2.2% last year at an annual level, and in yellow times she went up to 13%, not only to have a stable exchange rate, you will admit that in the last few years, we have an extremely high security when we use our payment cards. Thanks to software applications that protect us from abuse when paying online, and which in the event of abuse of our payment card, if we have money on the payment card, the damage of up to 3,000 dinars goes to our burden, i.e. the burden of the bank's client, over 3,000 dinars go to the burden, therefore, of the business bank. Let's just remember that by July of last year, it was different, that is, in the event of the abuse of payment cards on our cargo, there were 15,000 dinars, on the bank's burden over that amount. Because we are protected maximum when using payment cards, so we have significant progress when it comes to online trade. It is also important, when we adopt such laws, with regard to monitoring modern trends, we are today following modern trends, and sometimes, remember, when talking about online trade, it was almost unimaginable in Serbia, or online trade was a dead letter on paper. When it comes to the Bill on Stock Exchanges, therefore, it is a completely new legal solution that fully regulates the business of the Republic of Serbia. The establishment of a stock exchange not only aims at facing offers and requests for certain materials, but also offers numerous benefits for both stock exchange members and participants on the stock exchanges. This is, for example, a relief in the conclusion of the contract, the formation of market prices, the provision of greater legal certainty to participants, besides, is stimulated and the overall economic development in the Republic of Serbia is encouraged. When it comes to legal certainty, it is important that producers will know in advance the prices of their products during the production process and, if they want, they will be able to conclude the possible sale of their products. The law also provides for a system of guarantees in trade, i.e. the opening of a dedicated dinar and foreign exchange account, in order to ensure the execution of contractual obligations. So the manufacturers that sell the products in advance, where the production is still under way, will be provided maximum. This is particularly important for micro-enterprises, for small and medium-sized enterprises, because actually the government policy of the Republic of Serbia is to encourage the development of a very small enterprise. The law provides for a way of setting up stock exchanges, the stock exchange is intended to be established as a stock company where founders, i.e. shareholders, both domestic and foreign legal persons, as well as agricultural producers, and this is particularly important because it is precisely the aim of the Republic of Serbia to become a regional centre for trade in agricultural products. This also stimulates higher exports of agricultural products. When it comes to agriculture, I can also say freely that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is maximumly committed to the development of agriculture, so we have an incentive for young couples to buy houses and gardens in the country. Recently, a cornerstone was laid to build a fruit-processing plant in Aryl. There are also funds from IPARD funds intended for our agricultural producers to invest in agricultural production. Our agrarian budget is getting bigger and bigger year by year, which is really commendable. Therefore, the government's definition of raising agricultural production to a higher level follows the Stock Exchanges Act to ensure that agricultural products have a safe market at the best prices. While members of the government and President Vukic are constantly working to make Serbian citizens feel better and better every day, those from some Alliance for Serbia are dealing with lies and slanders, mentioning some diplomas, their validity, whether they are valid or not, and burying themselves with these lies. Why didn't they mention a degree in their time? What were they doing then? Probably nothing, except they stole from us. If Minister Stefanovic's diploma is not valid, then they are not valid for tens of thousands of young people who have just won degrees at the university they keep mentioning. So it's about double arches. When they are a position, everything is valid, and when they are an opposition, nothing is valid. Mr. Stefanovic won his degree at an accredited university, and it seems to me that at the university lectures were held by then by Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic and many others. Is Mr. Stefanovic's diploma valid or not? His expertise and the results of his work in the resolution ministry, as well as the Vice-President of the Government, speak of this, have fantastic results and make a significant contribution. They won't take this from the Alliance for Serbia all the diplomas of this world when they've robbed us, when they've made our country and our people miserable. Just because our ministers are professional and educated we have good results and improvements in all areas of society. Have we ever had more visits by foreign officials from many countries in the world? Have we had more visits by the president of many countries of the world? Would French President Makron come to Serbia if his safety wasn't guaranteed? Would Russian President Putin, Turkish President Erdogan or Chinese President Si Jinping visit Serbia if their security had not been guaranteed? Who cares about our security and security of all those high officials from foreign countries who want to visit Serbia? Of course, the Home Office. Would you have a record number of foreign tourists' nights in our country if Serbia had nothing to offer and foreign tourists in Serbia didn't feel safe and secure? Would we have such an inflow of foreign investment that Serbia does not have the most favourable conditions for foreign investment and when it comes to the speed of issuing construction permits, and when it comes to the professional position we have in Serbia, and when it comes to new highways? In just a few years, or five years, a new highway was built 460 kilometers. I really recommend that these Alliance for Serbia deal with more serious topics than children's games, such as: who got a higher grade in math. That's really unserious. Minister, I wish you a lot of success in your work, and I want you to bring many more of these laws that contribute to economic development in the Republic of Serbia. The SNS parliamentary group will support these and all other laws that are good for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58096	I'd like to thank my colleague, Charapic. Does he want any more words from the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58097	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, these laws are extremely important. Since I come from areas that are traditionally related to trade and where the commercial spirit is extremely important, to us these laws, we can say from a very great influence on the everyday life of an ordinary man. I will refer here to several things related to trade and some laws and legal acts which are causally and consequently related to this principle law on trade and transpose some concrete, to say the impressions, and also to problems and dilemmas of the Sandzak citizens regarding certain decisions. The first, as you know last year, when the president of the Republic of Turkey Erdogan arrived in Novi Pazar, along with President Vukic, was promised and signed that 5,000 tonnes of beef would be exported from Sandzak. It was then literally said that the June would be support or assistance to cave farmers, that they could simply restore the stock fund with quality meat that would be distributed further to Turkey. But a year later, no farmer experienced any kind of purchase of his living cattle for those purposes, so the logical issue of all these farmers who were happy with this kind of promise by the Turkish president, and we signed as a state, ratified the Agreement on the Export of 5,000 tonnes of beef from this area to Turkey -- did the process go at all, and did meat export to Turkey, since Sandzak from the Cave really does not export? Another important thing is the special agreement with Turkey on certain types of reliefs in trade, because small and medium-sized enterprises from Sandzak and how they have problems, and it is related to imports of finished products from Turkish companies that do not pay customs duties, do not pay any kind of obligation to the Republic of Serbia, especially the textile industry and some trade chains, such as "Vakikia", which import finished products, then return VAT to Turkey and thus our small producers, small textile companies threaten because they import re-promatter, pay certain types of taxes to the state and cannot be competitive. As a result, some 30-40% decreased production and decreased domestic textile industry producers' power, because thanks to these agreements that favour only Turkey's side, and against domestic producers, specifically the Sandzak textile producers, they are now at risk and their production had to be reduced by 30%. Those contracts are privileged by Turkish importers not to pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia, that VAT which must pay has a return in Turkey, while our producers do not have those benefits and, while they are more high quality, are not competitive with prices for these products. In this way, the number of employees in this type of industry is slowly choked and their production dropped, resulting in a reduction in the number of employees in this type of industry. We find it very interesting that in the construction industry they appear, for example from Turkey, the company, specifically in Novi Pazar, which may be in the only healthy segment of our industry where our valuable employers work well, work, even happened to be in charge of suppliers of certain buildings and after the completion of that building and the sale of apartments simply picks up and goes to Turkey, and all these suppliers are not respected, paid. This further endangers their entire business and their power to continue to be competitive on the market. So the logical question for us is from these parts – are we harming these legal solutions as a state, and especially from firms dealing with medium and small businesses, especially in textiles, and also in agriculture, and lately in construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58098	I thank my colleague Fehratovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Moamer Bacevac. He's not there. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58099	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. I will look back in a few minutes on one of these three laws that are on the agenda today, which is the Law on Trade, with one comment of course, and that is to congratulate the Government on all three proposed acts that are very good and in the spirit of the time in which we live. The Law on Trade itself, and that was the case today, is a law that has received one new system, a new division of trade that is harmonised, new rules in sales procedures and other harmonisations with our legislation and with EU directives. According to the new section, the store is slightly divided into a sales place, a personal offering and a remote shop. This third, remote trade is defined as a trade through means of communication. This includes catalogical sales of mail, TV sales, telephone sales, printed and advertising content that we have opportunities to see every day, but also electronic trade. Participation in total retail traffic in Serbia is increasing from day to day, and this is something that requires our additional attention and more detailed regulation. The law defines the most common forms of trade, the most represented models of electronic business on the digital market, which is normal because new models and new advertising channels appear every day. It is quite clear why there is and how advertising works and long ago our mailbox is not the only one that is many, but also our inbox emails and inbox warrants on social networks. Internet advertising has long been our reality and part of everyday life, which confirms that the Republic of Serbia is developing its information society from day to day. How our data is used, from which sources are extracted, and how to defend against the daily bombing of advertising content, especially on social networks, is one of the issues. Of course, this issue is regulated by some other law, the Law on Advertising and other laws, but as the Internet community becomes more numerous from day to day, so control must be greater, not only security, but also payment traffic control. In addition to the question of how to defend against advertising content, the question arises how to control sales, or the exchange of goods that takes place this way? Most advertisers sell business, which can be a risk to the seller, but also a risk to the buyer. Of course, there are official stakes of official firms that, transparently in accordance with the regulations, offer products and their services and their comprehensive business can be controlled. There are advertisers, or sellers, who are in the gray, or black, area of business. This field of the gray economy is a field of the 21st century and no society, no state is immune. The new law also provides for sublegal acts, several of them. For us MPs, this content is not yet available, but I believe that through the sublaws this business, that is, this gray zone, will be covered. It's clear that we can't solve everything or cover all the channels, but I believe that from year to year, especially by sublegal acts, we'll be able to cover some new models anyway. What's a newspaper, I said at the beginning, and it's important for our citizens, is a newspaper in the case of sales procedures involving action sales, seasonal reductions and sales. This is something that is important, because we are daily faced with examples of abuse of sellers, especially when they highlight sales or seasonal reductions, and after some time they return the prices of those products that were at the beginning. The second law is the e-commerce Act. He's relying on this law on trade and harmonizes with it. The most important change is in the form of electronic contracts, regulation of sending commercial messages. There's also a warrant for a misdemeanor. We think it's a good solution. You've also been in line with the advertising law on keeping the data itself. Furthermore, removing inappropriate and inappropriate content, with the obligations of the service provider to remove this content within two days and we think it is a good solution. What's last, and I think it's important, is the cross-border provision of e-commerce services. These provisions are in line with the European Union directives, and their application is delayed, i.e. it will be applicable to Serbia's EU accession. Anyway, once again, congratulations on quality laws and we'll vote in voting day for all three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58100	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. He's not present. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58101	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, of all the regulations governing the transport of goods and services, the Law on Trade is a central place. This law, apart from regulating all traffic, regulates the behaviour of all market participants. Two are the main tasks of the state - to secure a stable and supply market, when we talk about this area. In a market-based form, the state should not interfere and directly affect market movements. Our task is to create a legal environment where all market participants will have one legal certainty and will be able to predict future developments and make the most favourable business decisions. This, of course, also implies that by adopting regulations, we warn any type of unfair competition, that any economic operator, with the help of unfair competition, gains profits. Healthy competition is the basis of every market and I expect this Trade Act to be the basis for a healthy competition. Because if we have sound competition, such business activities, in this environment, have a positive impact on both productivity and quality of service and on better offer, and thus on lower prices. Therefore, the preservation of sound competition and prevention of unfair competition is of great importance for the development of every economy. It is very important for us from the SDPS that this Law on Trade achieves progress in the area where consumer rights are protected. This applies to the part where reductions are regulated, i.e. sales with a reduced price, sales incentives and advertising of sales incentives. I will remind you that the current Law on Trade, which is now in force, formulates that the trader is obliged to point out the sale price in a clear, unquestionable, easily visible and easily readable manner. Also, the current law regulates that the price that has been reduced, but also the price that was before the decline, should be highlighted. However, the newspaper that passes this new bill is now forecasting only two reductions over the year -- winter and summer reductions. The winter drop can begin between December 25th and January 10th, and summers from July 1st to July 15th and can last for 60 days. Also, the new law stipulates that action sales can last for the longest 31 days. In this way, we're going to specify this one area, in the sense that there will be no confusion with the customers. So, the buyer will be able to distinguish exactly when it comes to a downturn, and when it comes to a regular price. Because we are witnesses now, and I often notice that, especially in certain shops dealing with the sale of sports equipment, for example, we have a spring downturn, so comes summer downturn, so autumn downsizing, and again New Year's downsizing, as they call it, and then simply the buyer is confused, whether these prices are regular or are prices on the downs. This way we'll know that we have two reductions a year and it will be precisely defined by law. It is also important that we regulate this area, because it also happened that the buyer buys a particular product in a store that was declared a sale, and that the same product is later on in the shelves of that store, but at the moment when the sale is no longer available. This practice has been applied in some EU member states and has proved well. Another newspaper, but envisioned by the Law on Electronic Trade, which refers precisely to consumer protection, is that it extends competence to market inspection. In fact, there's a possibility that an inspector might be able to perform what's called a so-called inspector. Undercover shopping. What does that mean in practice? It is one tool, another in a series of struggles against the gray economy and means that if the inspector suspects that someone is engaged in certain activities, that it is not registered or that it does not issue an account, he can carry out inspection without announcing control and does not show official legitimacy. He collects evidence in the process, and when he collects enough evidence to suspect it, he then demonstrates legitimacy and says it was an inspection. This is also foreseen by the Law on Inspective Control, which we adopted in this House at the end of 2018, and this is another reason why it was necessary to comply with the Law on Trade, in particular with the Law on Inspective Control and with the General Administrative Procedure Act. One of the observed trends on the market is the increase in trade via the Internet, so-called Internet sales. This type of trade is expected to occupy more and more places in the total trade, in total sales. This is why it is important for the new law to regulate this area in detail and to establish mechanisms to combat possible abuses in this kind of trade. In modern society, trade is getting new forms and it is important to keep up with modern flows. In October 2017, we adopted the Law on Electronic Document, on Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. And that's why I think the Law on Electronic Trade is another one in a series that will complete this area. It is very important that we specify the conditions of business, and I have the impression that the degree of awareness of our citizens is still not at that level and that they do not realize what the advantages of electronic business are, or the advantages of electronic trade, and I do not think there is enough trust yet. It is therefore important to specify and define the area of electronic trade with these laws. I believe that this will create a legal framework that will, above all, raise citizens' confidence, and on the other hand, make it easier for traders to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58102	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58103	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, is the primary objective of the Trade Act to secure a stable and supplied market, in order to ensure conditions for a more efficient market economy. The development of the trade sector, and in particular the retail sector of the economy, has a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors and their participants. By applying the law in practice, it shows the shortcomings and the necessity to pass a new law, as the additions and changes of the old would require more than half of the legal solutions. The store is the backbone and the engine that needs to drag our economy forward. That is why it is necessary to work on modernising it, achieving competition and to support small and medium-sized enterprises. Trade is a process of exchange of goods and services. Under trade in narrow terms, the commercial supply of goods in exchange for a means of payment, i.e. money or other goods, i.e. a trade in goods. The right to trade exists in the case of a third party, i.e. a trader, who is an intermediary between the manufacturer and the buyer. Article 10 of this Bill provides a precise definition of trade – it is an economic activity which represents a set of business activities related to the purchase and sale of goods, as well as the provision of services with a view to obtaining profits. Articles 11 to 13 of the basic classification of trade, such as wholesale trade, retail trade and provision of services to consumers. The information age imposes standards that all will have to apply in modern business. Internet trade is an integral part of electronic business. Given that internet sales have increased participation in total retail traffic, there was a need for its detailed regulation. In order to develop online trade, some preconditions need to be met, which are primarily legal regulations, business orientation, cultural and technological aspects of the market and others. The benefits of Internet trade compared to its classical availability for 27 hours seven days a week, but there are also many issues that confuse this way of trade. The number of consumers who bought goods this way in 2018 was about a million and 800 thousand, however, these data are not the most accurate, because a number of traders use the internet as one but not the only channel of sales, so the available databases do not show precise data. More than 400 companies are registered in the Agency for Business Registers through mail and internet. A significant increase in the participation of modern retail formats should be expected in the future. This bill has created a new trade division that is consistent with the rights and obligations of the Consumer Protection Act. It was necessary to regulate where the system was sold through counters, stands, kiosks, special vehicles and the like. The justification for the adoption of the law is that horizontal regulations have been adopted in the meantime, which generally regulate the inspection procedure and the rules of the general administrative procedure, so it was necessary to comply with these laws. Data on the trading network to the level of the facilities are necessary not only for the purpose of analysis of the trade network, but also for the management of trade and its planning on the territory of the entire country. The new law regulates basic forms of Internet trade, as the most representative model of electronic business. Obligations of operators of economic exhibitions and traditional events are prescribed, conditions and means of supplying goods and services, detailed regulation of internet sales and sales via other social networks, control of the gray economy, modernisation of the trade sector, compliance with the Law on Inspection, compliance with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and other positive measures, which indicates that this bill should be adopted. Trade is usually a business that records the largest number of newly established companies. The trade employs about 20% of the working population of the Republic of Serbia, while the share of GDP is moving around 10%. Trade is a segment of an economy where competition is growing. It's much harder to sell than to produce goods. The rules governing the market should allow fair and equal operating conditions. Clear and transparent conditions will facilitate business and the creation of new business entities in this area, thereby increasing the number of employees and bringing international trade chains. At the very end, we can conclude that the law is good and that the voting day should vote for it, which the SPS parliamentary group will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58104	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go, colleague Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58105	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, respected colleagues and colleagues, we were able to see from the materials that the initiative for the creation of laws on trade, tourism and telecommunications was, in fact, stemmed from a number of economic operators, most often from the sector of agriculture, food industry and exporters. Although the majority site today is taking up an effective stock market study, it is important to pay attention to the entire range of interesting goods or product markets, on which different products are traded. First of all, considering the historical fact that the stock exchanges were originally markets where people gathered and pleaded on the purchase of goods. Before I say anything about this bill, and in the context of historical facts, it should be reminded that the formation of a stock market in Serbia is not a newspaper and dates back to the 19th century. The stock market also has great educational and moral power, it also affects the spread of consciousness, referring to everyone, without distinction, to work and to do their jobs quickly, favorably and reliably. That is why Minister Ljajic, the Resort Ministry and the Government have very responsible access to this area, so that activities can be gained in importance and in order to avoid these unnecessary interpretations of the very concept of the stock market. So, for example, the first formal idea to create a stock market by individual authors who have done this see in the letter of Pante Hadji Stoilov, which was also encouraged in 1830, primarily by an unstable monetary system, suggested the establishment of an institution that would play a role in controlling the movement of money flows. All previous activities affecting Belgrade's stock exchange peaked on November 3rd, 1886, when the National Assembly passed the Public Exchanges Act. Although the legal basis has been established, although the respected then Minister Mijatovic tried to start the stock exchange on several occasions, the Belgrade Stock Exchange was only founded on October 3rd 1894, meaning eight years later, and is one of the oldest in Southeast Europe. The call for traders to sign up for the stock market had a great response at the time, as all the more prominent traders from Belgrade and the interior were registered. That same year, the first founding assembly was held on November 21st. In a very interesting speech at the time, the first president, Dimitrij Stamenkovic, said: "The credit for opening this stock market belongs primarily to traders gathered around the Serbian company, who felt that the expression of the power of a state in the well-being of its people, which again consists in well-organised trade and advanced people's economy, without which no country can progress, nor can be strong." Under the same Law on Public Exchanges of 1886, the Novosada Product Exchange was founded in 1921. A segment also characteristic of this period, the development of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, is the establishment of continued co-operation with other markets. For example, for this period of development, the Belgrade Stock Exchange connects, following previous talks, representatives of the Pestanska, Vienna and Belgrade Stock Exchange and the creation of a 1927 Central and Southeast European Stock Exchange delegation. The meaning of this body was multiple. Its activities were aimed at facilitating and improving trade, standardisation of existing trade practices, but also at defending against competition, from cheap products from the US continent and Russia. One of the most important results back then was so-called. The Danube Treaty and the Stock Exchange should be, as it was in its past, an initiator of economic development in Serbia that drives both private and public initiatives. The Stock Exchange clearly provides the possibility of creating strategic security for agricultural producers above all, but also for processors and traders. The adoption of legislation will create a precondition for the development of a domestic stock market that will also have positive effects on the creation of this regional goods trading centre, where we hope that the composition of members and representations on committees will be decentralised, in terms of the involvement of businessmen and outside Belgrade. At the very end, the stock market is a major political factor and its significance is so much greater if the economic interests of a nation are more engaged in an international game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58106	Thank you, colleague Jelenkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, trade is an important thing, but if you're trading other people's money for other people's goods, then you can definitely show GDP growth. The joint criminal enterprise of the former regime was right to do so, income from the sale of capital, which we do not have, income from the sale of Mobtel, and the loans they withdrew, by paying out pensions, by raising spending, was in the original meaning, for someone else's money we buy other people's goods, by selling factories, industrial rings around Belgrade, Dragon, IMT, FOB, Železnik, two Rakovices, etc., have disappeared. The production of goods has disappeared, but foreign shopping centres, or large domestic shopping malls for foreign goods, have been installed around Belgrade instead of industrial factories. So we gave up production, moved to trade, and since we didn't have enough gold, and some mineral wealth, our economy had a collapse and 400,000 people were blown away and on the income side transferred to expenditure. Instead of producing people, they became a social case. Small countries, and I include ours, cannot survive without offensive exports. They have to produce goods and export them to serve their debts, those debts that did not serve to make export for debt recovery, and that criminal enterprise was committed by the party of the former regime. We are left with to bring investors, not only to produce goods, but to restore new technologies, new production standards and create and produce goods that we can export, sell. When foreign investors come to them, they don't want to admit that they bring us into a piece of their market for the goods they manufacture here. So this country is heading in the right direction, and it's on the right path to produce our goods, to export, and through foreign investments, we're renovating new technologies, and that's how we drag this country forward. The former regime's party didn't do it, and that's why we found a completely abandoned, abandoned country, with no chance for the present and future generations. We need to service debts by exporting goods, to service highway construction, and infrastructure. This infrastructure and these highways should serve not only to be driven as during the former regime's party, foreign goods to foreign trade chains, to borrow loans from foreign banks guaranteed by the state. This infrastructure should serve to make raw materials faster to enter Serbia, while finished products come out of Serbia faster to their markets, and that of that money, except for the existence of the population, we service debts, we get military equipment, high technology. There's no need to save here. We have a small number of people, we're a small country, we don't need to sacrifice any soldiers, we need to get technique and train people to hand that technique. That's why the government of Serbia, which I think will continue, in this or that composition, on these ideas, always have full support for me and not really my big parties, and that's why I want to tell you, and at the end of this point, so I want you to keep this path that I've been telling you about, and that this country is making economic progress, that we're militaryly equipped so that we can defend ourselves, that we can bear the burden of military and economic pressures and all be in favour of the well-being of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58108	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here again are the three points connected to one, although they are complementary and may be discussed as one item of the agenda, but the debate would certainly be better quality if they were separated. The Law on Trade, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Trade, is not long in legal traffic in Serbia, ten years, not full for ten years, 2010 was adopted, 2013 were amended and in 2018 there were other amendments to this law. Now, one of the colleagues said, it is also in this reasoning of this law that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications established a Working Group in 2016 to analyse all the rules concerning this ministry and make some proposals for further resolution. Well, it is said here that the amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Procedure, which was adopted in 2016 and the Law on Inspectives in 2015, influenced the amendment of this Law on Trade, but we had amendments in 2018 and that should have been included in the amendments, and then called for the Consumer Protection Act, which should not be the basis for these amendments and amendments to the laws. However, when we look closely at this law, we Serbian radicals, we expected it to go a little on the hands of the subjects and Serbia and we couldn't find any serious reason for the changes and additions, or they could follow but nothing is fixed, nothing seems. It should be borne in mind that trade may, after the area of construction, encourages in an indirect or direct manner and other business activities. The fact that around 19% of employees in Serbia are engaged in the trade sector, of course, is meant to trade in small, trade in large and car repairs, which also under this law has the treatment of trade, i.e. this law. Participation in the creation of a 10% GDP, it suggests that trade is a very serious area and every law that regulates such a living matter is quite complex. Just to remind ourselves that the first slave to be traded with, the truth, three thousand years before the new era, was a flint. The creme was used by the inhabitants of the planet at the time to light fire, but that the more serious trade appeared, or it appeared when these inhabitants at that time began to produce cattle and when it was too high, and most seriously it started with the appearance of money as an equivalent of the newly created value. In the beginning, the first traders were producers, and later they were defined as modern trade and as the participation of traders tasked with connecting producers and end-users of these goods, i.e. customers. Today it is said that it is much easier to produce than to sell, and if so, then access to this law, regulation of this matter should be much more serious than you offer in this bill. We could not, with the greatest interpretation, with the best desire to fully understand the provisions of this law, find the proposal to protect domestic producers, especially domestic producers, and then traders. It wasn't long ago when the first "Ikeja" facility opened in Serbia and from 9,900 and some items, which were found in their sales range, only three products were from Serbia. If we do not have the clearly defined requirements of the Serbian market and the needs of Serbian citizens, then passing laws is not what citizens expect. One of the colleagues also spoke of the need for agricultural production to be treated more seriously through the Law on Trade. What makes it more serious, through this law? Because the largest number of agricultural products go to the market and if it goes to the market, then some things have to be defined, in order to motivate manufacturers to have a serious access to it. You know, if the sub-term doesn't do something the state owed and required, then it takes a lot of time to get rid of those consequences. You see, now the Chinese encourage the birth of more than one child. You remember that only a decade ago was passed the Treaty of Restriction. They used it and now it's already a problem with the number of residents they want to have. Well, we too can have the most direct influence on both population and population policy. For me, but I'm saying this from talking to the citizens of Serbia, a sales facility, shops or retail, it's not just the place you go in, the door opens itself, you take the cart, you go to buy the desired goods, it's the place where in the villages of Serbia, people first meet in the morning, many of their houses, many of our residents live a few miles away from each other and come to the store, in a retail facility, for them is the beginning of one day. I didn't see it here, I didn't even know it was a gift for those. Minister, it was probably supposed to be encouraged by the state, sort of a sales vehicle. It is mentioned here that there is a possibility of selling goods through sales vehicles, perhaps in order to meet old people in Serbia. That's possible, I know the needs of the Mačvanski County, there are plenty of villages, where such a kind of trade would be useful and not a mačvanski district exception, such as in Serbia must be more than half, but you say that with such a law on trade we will successfully curb the grey economy. We Serbian radicals are meant to respect all the rules and, if it is larger when it comes to financial arrest, or tax obligations, then they can be individually less for each participant in the traffic, but do not make the main goal a Balkan spy, Ilija Cvorovic, and similar heroes from these series. We have a problem, or we will have a problem when it comes to the work of the wholesalers and when it comes to the work of the markets, because there are no conditions... Some municipalities, such as the town of Loznica, have in a relatively good and successful way solved sales in the green market, with no more vehicles that were out of the state of traffic where goods were held, but good facilities were made, but the conditions for keeping such goods are not good. I've set only one example, in some there are no such conditions, no minimum conditions. In particular, it should be borne in mind that in wholesale markets where the traffic of seasonal products takes place and mainly their sale goes to the days when temperatures are extremely high, and they would have to have refrigerators, ULO coolers or appropriate refrigerators in which they could store those goods. It is left to a private initiative, where profits are sought exclusively, but through this law it could at least be seen in a sign. Some 15 members are dedicated to the control or work of market inspectors, so the competence of municipal inspectors is now being introduced, so you're splitting it up nicely, and if the municipal inspector intervened, the income that he commits a controlled person to pay will be the income of local self-government, if these are market inspectors, since they are organised and located in the ministry of trade, then it will be the income of the central state. All in all, without this and this law, absolutely could. I don't know what's good here, what's so much to praise, I've really tried to find something to brag about, but there's no such thing. There are many reasons why this law should be withdrawn and at least some of the suggestions we have offered you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, should be incorporated into such a law so that it can solve some of the problems that lie ahead of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58110	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58111	On the subject of what is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to what extent we give a kind of right response to the needs, among others, and the needs of young people and not so young people in this country, and the question of opening up different perspectives, among other things, and that this country is working, that this country is living and that it remains, significantly better than it was in years, so I won't be wrong, if I say it for decades back, you've certainly noticed, and it's impossible not to notice, many have said today that one of the important aspects of these laws that we're talking about are these international standards, but also appropriate modernisation. When you look at why it's important, we talk about it often. It is this kind of modernization, and here are the people whose party is called "The Party of Modern Serbia" or modernization, and they will probably participate in this debate, so they can say what they think about it, so this kind of modernization is exactly the right answer to the question of the need in the modern moment, the right answer that young people can do from Serbia, how to make the world markets available to them, which you have spoken about for a moment, Mr. Pericic. So if someone can create in Serbia in a way that places what they create from here, and that can, for example, be the result of some intellectual work, it can be a certain service in the famous IT sector. It is a good framework for the person to say: “I am satisfied with the position I am in. I don't have to travel anywhere, I don't have to go to a country where the average salary is two or three times higher than in Serbia, everything I've planned to do there, I can work here, and my life costs are lower. “ Many are already thinking that way. When you look at what people who have dealt with these things in other places, in other countries, I have almost read one statement from a man who was one of the vice presidents of the Slovenian government, they have otherwise made a lot of progress in this kind of modernization and development of these famous e-services, he says - If you want to make a successful society that is competing today, a few of these, so-called. ecosystems to develop. One, it certainly is technological. So to introduce this type of service that allows things to be done remotely, easily, quickly, efficiently, using these modern telecommunications that are really hard to send out today, how fast and dynamic they are developing. The so-called ecosystem of international co-operation is important. When you look at how Serbia is today, and let's say on that plan, it's enough for you to look back at what's going on in Serbia these days, you've seen the way it's respected, let's say from one French, that today we can be proud to realize that it shows respect for Serbia. Compare that kind of relationship with anything that came before Alexander Vukic, the SNS, I know that many jump when I mention that party and that name, but that's the fact that whoever showed that kind of respect for Serbia, and we had that kind of high respect by the Russian Federation, when its president came here and by the People's Republic of China, remember, its leader was here and everyone was saying – Serbia has its place in the world. When viewed by some who would trade with Serbia, or young people and other capable people, they do not have to be young, who work in Serbia, they say – Yes, this is a really good place. And, yes, I can also invest my capital there and that capital will be safe there. That's how we get the job to ourselves. So this kind of modernization and this kind of international appreciation that we have today, these are the real answers to the questions that you've asked, of course, when they're approached in the right way. I don't think it's the right way to act, the way it does, let's say, today Dragan Gilas with his team, you saw that these people even tried to visit President McCron to abuse, so you tried to address him with some request for a meeting, and you saw how dilettant and funny it was. They wrote to a man on the day he came to Serbia, and in English, they insulted him to lie, declaring that it wasn't as Makron says, but as they claim and the highlight of that story was today when, with some apology or determination, we may have been a little confused about the date, and we also paid tribute to the charge, imagine what they said, it is on the site of Gilas's organization, that Makron and Vucica were making some private business for their companies. So that's not the right way, but what is? The one that opens the markets, you have correctly noted, the one that opens up the possibility to be easier in Serbia, but also from Serbia, and that is definitely what reality is in Serbia today. That is why we claim that Serbia is much more successful than it was before Alexander Vukic and SNS and Serbia, of course, takes much more care of itself. We're no longer interested in accounts like someone else's pocket, hundreds of millions in Gilas's companies, and you know, everything that represents the deepest, darkest darkness of this country's past.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58112	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58113	Mr. Orlic, this is the 21st century and no state, however economically strong, has developed democracy, can exist alone. Co-operation is necessary, but it is the obligation of every government, the obligation of each regime to primarily take care of its interests both economic, industrial and its citizens' interests. We are proud of young Serbian experts who can work from Serbia and stay in Serbia. We have nothing against those who leave, so with knowledge they return to Serbia, to develop Serbia more rapidly. It's all their business. But we didn't recognize it here, I was talking about that when it comes to international trade, it can be controlled by quotas and protected by the domestic market and domestic production. In the case of imports, export quotas or export subsidies may also be introduced. We miss that. I don't know, you probably have contact with citizens of Serbia whose exclusive interest is agricultural production. They are facing more problems, which neither they nor they can solve, nor help them at this time can be provided. What's that? An insecure ransom price, insecure placement and inability to provide labour, which is not complicated and not demanding, but is not. I've often been convinced and present when my acquaintances and friends are trying to provide raspberries or other participants in these seasonal affairs, and that's impossible. On that plan we would have to do more and we would have to know when the goods are imported what status our domestic goods will be. It's very often said here -- we're importing what we've been best known for so far and perhaps best or among the best, and that's what we're importing. The more parties with some loud popular names, including modern Serbia, the more such parties, the harder Serbian citizens live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58114	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58115	Yes, agriculture is certainly one of the important sectors that we absolutely have to take care of, but I must tell you that today Serbia is giving this kind of right answer that I've been talking about for a little while. I can't remember if there were any examples at the time of those we confidently know that they never cared for either the agricultural producer or any other man in Serbia to themselves, of course, their immediate environment, I mean here both Gilas and Jeremic and these accompanying courtyards, all the members of the yellow company, did in their time the government deal months in advance with the question of the Malian needs, before there was a problem? You know, we talked about it here, today it's reality. Today, common solutions are being made. Subsidies for farmers, I can't remember if there was any contradiction to the ones we brought here, are much better today than in their time. Whether people want to work, and there's work or maybe there's no work, it's a thing that we can certainly talk about for a little longer, because I'm afraid that Serbia today, so let's say in that sector is also facing an interesting phenomenon, that there are more than interested people to deal with. That also applies to these seasonal affairs that you've been talking about. It's not the only problem, there's a problem with the organisation of work, but also here, I have to tell you again, today we're giving the right solutions right through these modernization programs that we talked about during today, which I insist on for a little while. Do you know that we have introduced a service that allows seasonal workers to be properly reported to you? What does "adequate" mean? To overcome all the difficulties that the employer has, and naturally there are, when he hires, say, a few hundred people to do a clean seasonally for ten days, and then he needs to sign a couple hundred contracts, make a few hundred applications, then the day before the job rains, and then he has to make a change of contract or pretend that nothing happened, skips two days, and many unfortunately find a solution in that no application is made. We have a total of 3,000 to 3,500 people reported, just because we have introduced a modern system, an electronic system that allows flexible applications, before the start of any work, raised the number of people reported by a third, and only now we are monitoring what will be the reach or dimensions of the overall positive effect we have achieved. So once again, you can do what you can do, what you can do smartly and successfully do, but when people take care of it in the right way, when they care about making that result, when they want to learn from others and try to outdo them. Of course, it is, once again, a terrible difference compared to what we once had in Serbia. What kind of service you are, it doesn't have to be electronic, and for the benefit of the citizens, you could have figured out at the time of this Gilas, who, of course, has shifted hundreds of millions of euros to the accounts of his companies, and the debt in the city of Belgrade has only increased, which day today cannot explain? How is it possible, you start dealing with politics, we say, naked as a gun, and you have nothing concrete, nothing tangible, you report yourself having nothing, and you end up reporting tens of millions of euros in real estate alone? So these are relationship issues, is it important for someone today to do something for the state, make a smart solution, not to be ashamed to learn and make progress every day? Yes, it is. Did you have that kind of behavior? Well, no. So there were no examples of those who had only become rich. That's why Serbia was so devastated and so ruined and that's why Serbia is so much more successful today than it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58116	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58117	Mr Orlic, you who are calling today or perhaps a few months back since they didn't come to this Parliament or, at best, since 2016, we have marked them as a bad system of government in 2000 and we have never been able to revise our views on this issue, because they have not left us with such an opportunity. We don't have a problem if someone changes in a positive sense and we say, yes, it's okay, you'll have SRS support, but they haven't changed their course since 2000 at all. The main goal was for them to live as well as possible, to take as much money as possible from Serbian citizens. We want to exercise control over you and exert some pressure to make you work better and in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Every time you do good, we're not your opponents, we won't be. As soon as we see that there's room for better and more engaged your moment, it's at this point. It's so now. In the next election, the situation may be completely different, but let the citizens of Serbia judge it, and we will then, as well as countless times before, respect it. We may be unhappy with the election result, but we are not angry with Serbian citizens. We haven't introduced ourselves enough, we haven't shown ourselves in the best way we want. That's the problem. With certain system solutions and measures implemented by this regime, I am not saying that something has not been tried, that the Law on Seasonal Employment may not have left a legal framework to resolve, but believe that in practice it did not live up to much precisely the reason that there are no good conditions for their engagement. It's not a problem in flat-rate places, where this seasonal worker can leave his house and go back to his house at night, stay in it, sleep, but where he needs to be provided accommodation and rest, it's also a question of living standards. Someone may need to earn additional money, but conditions of accommodation, travel conditions, or the like do not correspond to it, and perhaps the skills that need to be demonstrated in working hours are not in their power, these are other reasons, but there are still many things to be done. Anyway, here, now we're saying there's no inflation. This is in the most direct relationship with this Trade Act. Do you know where I saw that inflation? At first, some chocolates were packed net weight of 100 grams, so they went down to 90 grams, and the price remained the same. Now we have 80 grams and the price is the same. Do you know what inflation is for me? Not a percentage, 20 grams of chocolate.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58118	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58119	Mr. Peric, so what you just mentioned is, if that packaging still says 100 grams, and the grammar has changed, the question of breaking the law, not the issue of inflation. And that's a job for inspections, which I have to notice, again, if we're going to make comparisons with some previous times, they're doing much better and more seriously, and that's what official data says, and how many different visits by inspectors have been done on an annual level and what are the effects. I think the present minister has spoken of it many times in public. It's not a problem to remember these things. Something much more important. You said now that there was no effect, that we didn't have the measured effect of these measures that I was talking about earlier, but you're wrong. I told you, a third of the effect has been increased in the beginning. So, three months literally from the date of entry into force of that law that allowed electronic records, we averaged 3,500 registered seasonal workers to 4,400 and that's before the season began, so before the business itself. And we're just going to see, I've pointed out this before, how full it is and how effective it is, and now that it's already there and it's already worth it, it's quite clear. That's what we've done with the modern system. Remember, we talked about it. Croatia was valid for someone who had the best solution in this sense, but their solutions were glued to certain coupons or dots in work books, and we introduced all the electronic, all fully digitized, all the most modern. I think that's a good thing. And, you're right, you should always warn and ask for more and better. After all, we insist, we insist on this type of work ethics, which says – there is no shame in working. On the contrary, it is an honor; it is good to do. He needs a man to want to work. He shouldn't avoid jobs where he has them because he thinks they might not be good enough for him, which is good business. It's no alternative to sit at home, if you can choose. And today in many ways you can choose, you can choose more drastically than at the time when hundreds of thousands of people are, you remember, Gilasovo, Jeremic, the time of the yellow company, hundreds of thousands of people are out of work and nothing can be chosen, there were no alternatives. Today, when there are hundreds of new companies coming to Serbia, a man can say, yes, I want to work in that company, whether for that salary or not, I might want in the other one, for a little more pay or not, but it's a nicer and easier job. So that's the kind of alternative we're providing citizens today. (President: Bringing the end. This is the last sentence. This is just one example. See what we have done in the construction sector, how we have progressed on the "Ding Business List" of the World Bank just because we have introduced this kind of modernisation and you will see Serbia progressing and that is our opinion and that is the world's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58120	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58121	Well, in order to avoid confusion, I didn't say that the content changed, and that consumers in the end line, if they are careful, were not informed. Visually, it's the same thing. That chocolate says 90, so later it says 80 grams, it doesn't work out, there's no room for market inspection, but there's a need to analyze what's happening to us. If this working commission of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, but I say it has not done so successfully, it has done an analysis and we must very often access certain analyses. And we show you that some legal regulations change quickly, we don't dispute that sometimes. That's what it takes. Life is faster than the law used to be. Customize the law, so it's a social act and we bring it in or we don't bring it in, we harmonize with the needs of our citizens, or we don't coordinate. So that's possible. You're talking about an increase in the number of people involved, or the possibility of a seasonal employment law, getting hired. No more motive. A small number, and the demand for these seasonal workers is reduced, because the ransom price, we don't expect it to be guaranteed now, but it has to be brought into some relationship with import products. That's why I said that the state has to intervene with these tariffs, to carry out at a level of approximately the same price, if the quality is the same, imports and domestic products, and then the consumer, depending on his economic power, should decide what to buy. Very often our consumers today, not only when they were in power, but also today, are forced to buy what is cheaper, not looking at the quality, because their standard leaves them no more space. They, too, like you and me, know what's quality, but they don't have the opportunity to get to that product. There's something to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58122	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58123	Well, just by encouraging competition and encouraging the development of the market, we have this kind of alternative, and when it comes to the offer we stimulate directly, so not just an alternative in terms of what I was saying earlier, that people can choose what they want to do and what they want to do, but also what they spend their money on, but perhaps much more important than that today's "Ikea", and not just "Ikea", and "Lidl" is about and many others, people have opportunities and alternatives that they could never have imagined. It's much more important that they have money that they could spend that way. Remember, we're talking about encouraging wage growth and providing a sensitively higher salary. And we're making a comparison, yes, those 337 euros, which was a republican average at the time of Gilas and the rest of the yellow company, and they can talk by tomorrow that it's not like that, but it's recorded, it's recorded, that's what the IMF tells them, if it's more important than what we're talking about, when compared to today's 463 and a clear plan, an honest plan, and what it's really about, that's 500 euros that we talked about, remember how they laughed. In this room, they said -- that when the average salary in Serbia is 500 euros, we should all vote for you. We'll remind them soon, you'll see how fast. But on the other hand, let's take care of the interests of the citizens. The percentages you were talking about, it's not, of course, about the percentages on the chocolates, it's about much more significant percentages, much higher percentages and percentages that mean something more. Why was the 337-euro ceiling at the time, among those who today are wise, philosophist and say – should the minimum wage in Serbia be 350 euros? Now, imagine, Gilas, whose average time was nowhere near that much, today is wise and says – should be a minimum of 350. Well, why didn't he provide it with such a minimal? What was three times lower than the one he's talking about today? That's the real question for him. And the answer is, I mean, in those percentages, but his percentages. Remember, we read here in this room a financial report from a commission formed by the DS last year, I'd say. Last year, they found, and that's what they said, to remind you, Serbia fell apart, and in it, the DS and its Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic and others, because they fully privatised the state, that's what they said, that they staged tenders, that they staged competitions and that they built on a percentage, that's the percentage we're talking about. (President: Bringing the end. ) E, when you treat the state in this way, there is no modernisation, no jobs, no alternatives, no higher salaries, no higher pensions, anything that Alexander Vukic and SNS have in Serbia today. I think that thing is completely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58124	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58125	It is true that the minimum profit has been increased in this period compared to earlier times, but all other services have also changed the price, even where the state appears as the performer of certain services, and these are some administrative costs, perhaps even several times that it has been increased. The purchasing power of citizens is apparently better than it was. What does that mean? The banks are in trouble when it comes to the placement of their capital. Very few, i.e. fewer than necessary and possible, if this is all the way you talk, domestics who want to invest, and therefore also withdraw credit from banks, and since they cannot place funds to that extent, then approve of consumer loans. Very often, Mr. Orlic, you know it probably by your neighbors, by your party friends and others, very often resorts to the reprogramme of their obligations, so they don't come under the influence of private contractors. There's still a lot of work to do. I'm not saying that some of the initial steps may not be taken, but they are nowhere near what you in this region want to present and know Serbian citizens at least as far as you and I live. They know it better, but at least they know it as well as I do. You do your best, and you can. You have absolute authority and you do, make them feel better. Don't let it. Now you're going to say, so that's the story, it's not a story, it's in this place, if it's not people who can answer, we're trying to leave them by name aside. Why today, when it comes to public procurement, certain people go to the person who got the job, say, and how much is mine, and then they ask for even up to 20%, and which is why when I did, it suits him, which is why when I did, when I had the best offer, and because you lack all the paperwork, which is missing, he asks, and this one fits, so the first document that happens to me when I get back to the office. There's plenty of room for some other organs, so that's where you work.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58126	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58127	Just what we're doing today and what I'm trying to explain, Mr. Peric, is the real answer to any danger of that kind of thing that you're talking about right now. Is the introduction of electronic services the best way to preserve transparency and preserve data integrity? You hand over the document, it's registered, and everyone sees it's been handed over and then who's going to pull it out of the drawer or take it off the table. He's not in the drawer, he's not on the table. He's on that server where everyone sees him, and the one who handed him over, and everyone else who participates in the tender or in the procurement, and those who make sure the procedure is completed. That's why we're talking, and these are the right answers to that kind of danger. That's why, I'm telling you, no such solutions as we're doing today at the time of those who, in their own words, have been quoted to you, mixed up tenders, set up competitions and lived on being put into percentages. You know how they lived? They had nothing, like Gilas who had nothing when he began to deal with politics and ended up heavy on dozens and hundreds of millions of euros. So that's the difference. I'm telling you, they certainly didn't do it back then because there wouldn't be room for that kind of wealth. Those are their words. So all the confessions they're making themselves these days and not just these days. A responsible relationship is the right approach when it comes to other things you've been talking about. You said the market, here, see how responsible it can be for the markets to be treated. Look at what it's going to look like, let's say, this Palillan one, and I think next year the object will be able to be seen in its glow and greatness. Look, let's say, the relationship with the perpetrator's question. It's the same question of responsibility, because the perpetrators were introduced by Gilas and his camels. There's no point in falling responsibility that we've limited to them the possibilities of fact. What was considered boasting was what we restricted. You have to be honest, so remember that. Perhaps the most important thing is that you do public work that is important to other people, that you take care of something that may be most important in the world, and that's the country, the country you love, that's the people you belong to. When you do that, you make this kind of result. When that is not the way it is done, when it is not thought at all, when a man does not act like that, then he becomes like today, the remains of a yellow company, much more important that Alexander Vukic hit the essence of their not only political but also human nature, when he said – conceit and false elite, you are no better than the people. Then it becomes more important to them, as is more important to them than Serbia in the world, and to the development of the market, and to new jobs, out of hundreds of thousands of new jobs, and even from one Emmanuel Makron in Serbia who was in Serbia at their time, I can't remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58128	The word has the People's MP Sreto Peric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58129	Mr. Orlic, just to thank you, I will stop with these replicas, you were just talking about us when you said that you should love your country, that you should be professional, responsible, that such power should be. We're just that. I'm not saying that you're not anything better, I wouldn't be dealing with percentages now, than those who were before you. It is not true that you have restricted private perpetrators in anything, and it is true that they were introduced before you. You have had the opportunity to lift them completely or to propose a law on amendments and additions to the Security and Enforcement Act. There is now, in order for Serbian citizens to be timely and truthfully informed, in the assembly procedure such a bill that is only a modification of what is already at work, and the assistant minister of justice said herself in 2018 that he would propose, much time has passed since then, amending and supplementing the law where she, she insists, will stop boasting and savage behaviour, I now quote, private perpetrators. Maybe not all of 230, 217, 300, as many as there are, such, but the largest number is that. If you still want to compliment the SRS, we won't be an obstacle to that. I thank you on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58130	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58131	Commendations always go when they're deserved and when it comes to responsible relationships, it's no problem whatever someone's called. We don't have a problem with whether it's called one or the other, but good. Since you said you wanted us to end this debate in replicas, I'm going to end it with things that I consider important. So, not only did I introduce those services that I spoke about earlier, but those that have already shown a clear impact and a good contribution to Serbia's needs, but also elsewhere. I also mentioned the question of how Serbia is listed on the Duing Business List and I mentioned the question of how an important sector can improve by investing in electronic services. You mentioned him mentioning trade at the beginning, I think, it's about construction. Listen to the results, where nothing is ours, nothing personal, but these are the results that international organisations are publicizing. In 2011, in the year 2012, Gilas era, Serbia had a ranking of 175, 179 on the World Bank's Duing Business List. We laid down around this figure in about 180, and then construction permits issued in Serbia were 7,000 and something, such as 7,300, 7,500, year-to-year. By introducing the kind of electronic service that has just provided for everything to be seen, to process it quickly, that there is no room for taking the paper from the drawers you were talking about, you know how far we've come? Data for the last two years, 2017, 2018, Serbia is on this Duing business list of the World Bank 10th, remember, 180th and some during these geniuses, Gilas and his salary 337 euros on average, and today 463 is not good, and it looks less than 330, but then 180th on the list, and today 10th and 11th, respectively, two years in a row. Macedonia, which was not only the leader of the region, but one of the most successful in the world, when it comes to this type of service, is now two places behind us. You know how that physically manifests in licenses? Eighteen thousand and 500, or 19,500. How many times is that compared to those 7,000 and something? These are important things. This is a valuable result for Serbia. I'm sure you know that very well. I know you do. The development of this sector directly develops many other things that this sector monitors, and people who are engaged, but also many people who are engaged in something that represents significant construction works. These are things that raise Serbia, but once again, man has to think about these things being important if he thinks, if he feels he's dealing with something that's important for other people, something that's important for what's supposed to be the most important thing for all of us, for our country and for the people we belong to. All the opposite of those who, once again, at the time of Gilas, the yellow company and those who today cannot agree who is more irrelevant to them, took care of their own companies, their own pockets, the balance of foreign exchange accounts, once again, by their own words and their own recognitions these days, and that is, you will agree, a big difference, and that is the root of why Serbia today is so much more successful than that of their robbery and robbery time.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58132	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58133	Thank you. Before I go back on the subject, I have to look back on seasonal employment. It's a law that essentially changed something and brought something new. The government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, is eager to regulate this area, and then, as a strategic decision of our government, is to fight the gray economy. Our wish was to give those citizens who are engaged in seasonal employment some rights. They had these rights in some earlier years, but they were very limited and they abolished some other rights, which means that if you find him or if he is registered, the seasonal worker lost the social aid fee and lost the right to be on the National Employment Service record. We wanted to provide an opportunity, with a focus on the category of people who do this job, that they do not lose the right to social assistance and that they do not lose the right to be on the National Employment Service records. Our wish was for them to have some specificity and to animate employers to report them. In that sense, we have found a solution that was consistent with what is also one of the strategic decisions of this government that is digitization. Let's say, one Croatia that is in the EU is doing all this in a way that has nice stamps. It's about 20th century, Serbia today, when it comes to this area in the 21st century. The simplified application allowed the employers to report their seasonal workers at this time 183. The exact information was that it was somewhere around 3.5 thousand, 4.5 thousand people by May. By 1 July 12,072 workers were registered. It's not the end of the season yet, this is the first year, I just want to point out that since 7 January we are implementing this law, and in the first year of the first five months, we have 12,000 seasonal workers who are registered and who are thus enrolled in pensions and 303 dinars paid by day ensure that they have a pension, providing them with insurance in case of work injuries, and also providing them with all that they have as if they are employed in temporary and occasional jobs. They have the right to rest and on a Sunday vacation. It certainly is not the end, the government is now thinking about how to extend it to other professions, since this has proved to be an example of good practice and I think it will be very soon to amend and supplement this law because we want the law to adapt, which is the idea and it is the task of this government, to be in the service of its citizens and to extend to other activities where there is initiative and space to engage people in such simplified jobs. Of course, knowing that people don't deal with technology and that they're not that common in certain things when it comes to reporting, we even made sure that the application works in some isolated places, wherever possible and it's very possible to do it very effectively and in a short time. Expect soon to amend and supplement the Law on Seasonal Employment, which will be extended to other activities and thus enable more people to exercise their legal rights and rights on the Labour Act. As far as this law is concerned, I'm very, very prepared for this, I've read the Law on Trade and Electronic Trade and Stock Exchanges. Believe me, each of us knows very well and has this experience when buying online, what kind of problems he's faced. Each of us knows what kind of scams he's faced when it comes to commercials that have talked about you having a big discount, and then when you come into the store, you realize there's not or only one pair of things that's on the discount. These three laws, which are interlinked or indirectly connected, are now allowing for something to change. Essentially to change and to provide opportunities and guarantees for our citizens to have and exercise their rights and to be in some way protected. Will there be room for a change? Certainly, but it should allow time to pass and see what this will look like, but certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this ministry had the greatest desire to settle this area. There was a lot, a lot of space where there was a possibility of malfeasance. Especially when it comes to inspection surveillance, where the inspectors couldn't even see that there was some irregularity and violation of the law to prove it, and the wish of this law is precisely to change it and that there is a kind of control right there. You are aware that today you have sales of goods on both Facebook and "instagram" and via advertising, this goods is placed on our customers, and on the one hand it destroys competition, on the other hand, does not provide a guarantee for the sale of the product and this third country remains deprived of taxes and contributions. That's how it's stolen from our citizens and they're pouring money into the hands of a small number of people. To get to the point, if it wasn't for that, we were just about to amend these three laws. I believe that we all know and we are all here aware that this is a qualitative step forward and I believe that you will certainly vote for this in the voting day, because this fundamentally changes access when it comes to trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58134	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58135	Mr. Minister, this Trade Act has 73 members, and we didn't say none of them were right. Here, this last 73rd that says -- the law goes into effect eight days after the day of publication in "The Official Messenger," what could we change here? And if we did, he'd have such a provision. We are not part of this majority that must praise and convince what is already in the law, we as serious and responsible, according to counterpart Orlic, who above all loves our country, we need to find more and offer Serbia's citizens. This Law on Trade, article 48, says that a market inspector can seek police assistance, or municipal police, and a few days ago you passed a law that does not say municipal police, but says police. Okay, that may be removed by amendment, and it's not the point, it's not that important, but when it comes to this seasonal employment, Mr. Minister, you know as well as I do, and everyone else, mostly on these jobs, people with lower education are engaged, and maybe students and students make some extra money that they could use in their spare time. That's right and it's good that maybe there's a law so that we don't lose those rights that they have as unemployed persons. Just to remind you, I'm not sure if she was in 2006 or 2007 when the cherry pickers in Meroshima came to work to pick cherry, asked for their daily allowance to be paid in advance. Do you know why? They weren't con men. Because the owners of these increases when they hand over what they have collected, they cannot take as much money as the pickers, or their journals, have. Not to count their investment, because there's some sort of processing and preparation before that, but that state has to intervene. He'll find his own way with that seasonal worker and the owner of the cherry plantation. I'm not saying he doesn't need a state intervention, but it'll be easier for him than this situation so he doesn't doubt who he was working with in advance, but he simply won't be able to get as much as a living room.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58136	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58137	When it comes to compensation, this is exactly what it does for seasonal employment, which is that you are guaranteed the moment someone reports you and you know that you are registered, and you can make sure that you are registered, because there is a portal to see if you are registered as a seasonal worker on that day, that you have to be paid a minimum of 155.3 dinars, which is guaranteed a minimum labour price for that day. So it can't happen anymore. You can agree more and there to have a problem, but the state is now behind you, if he has reported you, and he has not paid you, to guarantee you that you can sue him for that amount and get it. As far as inspection supervision is concerned, you know for yourself that the Inspectors Act has been passed, that it was our wish that all inspectors work together. There is a law here designed in some way to co-operate with the municipal militia and market inspection, but generally with inspection supervision we led to this because I know with the labour inspection that we go together and work together. The moment the labour inspection finds that there are some shortcomings that are not within our jurisdiction, it immediately calls for another inspection from whose jurisdiction and work together on the ground. Now, unlike some earlier times, and you might know that, we have frequent inspections where we have joint inspections of certain inspections on the ground. I think the wish of all of us is that in some way unfair competition disappears, that the gray economy disappears. To that end, we have also introduced registers, so that you can also see on the website as a citizen to check which firm she worked illegally, which firm denied a worker a right and decide whether you want to work as an employer or as a physical person and to buy from that company yourself and decide whether you want to leave any money to that company. I think it's one step forward in being us and as the state today are transparent and we've shown that we want to fight the gray economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58138	Right on line, MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58139	Mr. Minister, the Inspectorate Control Act is a step forward from earlier. Now, there are a lot of colleagues here who know that during some period of time, persons who didn't have a registered store were engaged in the gray economy, but inspections had no jurisdiction over such persons. By passing this law, it's one step forward. I guess the state needs to be arranged, to know how it works, and the largest number of citizens is in the interest of being that way. One thing that you and I Mr. Minister didn't understand, I didn't say, and you're kind of partial through this explanation trying to protect some interests, interests of seasonal workers, and it's okay, it needs to be protected. You told me the lowest price. If they agree, it can be bigger. It can and should be bigger, because this user of these seasonal workers will also need it, because you know there are traditional relationships in some who use and engage this seasonal force for years, somewhere even a decade and more and one that don't change. But here's the question when I told you that they asked in advance, in the morning to collect, because the ransom price of their product couldn't meet the cost of the harvest without talking about other costs. And when I said that you should work on it, it's not easy, but it has to be thought about it, not when the harvest season of any agricultural product comes, but now to do an analysis and now to say that the years so far have been missed, it's been, it's damaged who's damaged, but we want to have that situation next year. We can do this to a good extent if we protect domestic production, domestic producers. What we say can't even be said by the President of the Republic, no matter how hard he's tried, hired and committed, as he says, to tell any foreign investor to go there and go around, if there are better conditions offered than here, come back, we'll give it even better. Well, you can't do that. Anyway, it has to be defined, but the same conditions, you'll say right away -- yes, they're the same. They are not the same, the same conditions for foreign persons who are owners of business entities registered in Serbia and our citizens of Serbia. They're not the same. When it comes to an investor, the domestic person for all the permits he needs to get is needed twice as long as it is when it comes to a foreign investor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58140	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58141	First, to inform the public, it is not true that they have different times, nor that there are different conditions for each other. They are completely identical conditions and the same conditions have both foreign and domestic. They're exactly the same in front of our law. As far as seasonal workers are concerned, I certainly understand what yours is, to say the point. We certainly look at every way to ensure all their rights. There's probably space and ideas and this kind of exchange, let's just say, our opinions just lead to some next solution being more effective at that. We all aim to protect these people who work, that they too have all the rights that all the other employees have, and thirdly to protect those employers from those who do not do so and in some way deny them the right, these workers, but also create unfair competition. Of course, I'm telling you, there will be soon this law in the assembly procedure, there will be an extension to other occupations, there will be an open debate about it, and I believe that you will take part and we will come to an even better solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58142	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Dusko Tarbuk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58143	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Respected ministers with their associates, respected citizens of Serbia, the adoption of the Stock Reserve Act achieves its basic objective, which is to establish a modern stock exchange as an organizer of a fair, transparent, efficient market, unstandardised and standardised market material. Also, one of the objectives to achieve the adoption of this law is to establish an institutional framework for stock exchanges. The law clearly defines the institutional framework in the area of the stock exchange as a control over market participants institutions through the definition of clear conditions for the establishment of organisations and functioning of the stock market such as personnel, organisation and technical training. The law allows for a higher degree of trade security. On the stock exchange, they will be able to trade domestic, foreign legal persons, farmers who have registered agricultural holdings and anyone who meets the requirements of the law will be able to establish a stock company on the stock market. The law will improve the system of guarantees in trade, which is particularly important for improving the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. By passing this law, better and greater support for exports. Taking into account that grain exports dominate the structure of Serbia's total exports to agricultural products in Serbia, it records a surplus of $1.6 billion, while agricultural exports account for nearly 12% of total exports. Exports will provide an opportunity to know in advance when they can contract the price of goods, cereals, industrial plants, fertilisers and anything else that will allow them to plan their business precisely and to protect themselves from risks in the same way as their foreign competitors. The adoption of the Stock Exchange Act provides for a commodity stock market which is an indicator of the safety and competitiveness of a particular economy, as well as a way of eliminating non-market risks in business mode. The stock market is the current of modern business and it has proved to be the best and most efficient and honest business operator. I, with both hands, support every law that will improve the functioning of the stock exchange and, as a matter of fact, make the stock market even more precise. So, my esteemed colleagues, in voting day, please support this law, of course, if they have the strength and the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58144	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58145	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS list. I am, along with my colleagues, at the Socialist Movement Parliament Club, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasants' Party, where we at our club support all these bill proposals, but we always put an accent on people living in the country, for people living from villages, for workers and for all those living in all parts of our country of Serbia. Otherwise, I will support the proposal of this law, the Law of Trade. In particular, electronic commerce is very current in this previous period, and there are many shortcomings, there are many things that are under question, where we sort of solve these things, we put legal frameworks. But, on the other hand, we have to put an accent on what is important, that a large number of our environments, such as the Srlig municipality, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka, Babusnica and a large number of municipalities in southeastern Serbia, where people live in rural areas where agricultural production, where there is no internet, and on the other hand, electronic trade, does not mean that we have to work there to ensure the same conditions of life, such as the lives of our agricultural producers, our people living in central Serbia, Belgrade, Belgrade, in Belgrade's municipalities normally and northern Serbia. I have advocated, and I will always advocate that in the middle of agricultural land, such as the Srlig municipality, and the municipalities where I come from, we provide these people with adequate conditions for agricultural production. Earlier, my colleague, Sreto Peric, said certain things concerning the very people of the manufacturer, whose products tomorrow, they produce it in the field, whether it's a slurry lamb, whether it's cherry, whether it's raspberries, whether it's peaches, whether it's not important, those people produce it, do it, and when it comes to selling these goods, they sell it much cheaper than those who trade it, i.e. those buyers, buyers, or as they say. I think that we need to give our farmers more support in rural areas, we need to give more subsidies and work together with them to provide the first basic conditions for life, that every village has its own store so that they can provide their products, buy something they need, but normally provide the internet to do trade in this way where they now have so-called. stock exchange and local stock exchanges that can be sold products. Once again, I, as an MP of the USS and president of the USS, will support the proposals of these laws, by always mentioning that we must provide more funds for the environments that, such as municipalities where I come from, undeveloped areas in southeastern Serbia, are more isolated for our agricultural producers in such villages, because without them, believe me, it is our quality product, but this product can never get the price, but the one that buys it from them, it has a higher profit. Once again, the USS and I as president, I will support all these bill proposals because they are correct, they are good and they should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58146	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58147	All topics on the agenda today are extremely interesting for the debate – and the proposal for a law on trade and a bill on amendments to the Law on electronic trade and the proposal for a law on commodity markets. I decided to use my time at today's session to discuss the topic of electronic commerce. The conditions for the development of electronic trade in Serbia came only after 2000, when there was a faster and more successful development of municipal infrastructure, leading to the speed of Internet flow and thus an exponential increase in the number of users. With the commercial provision of internet services in our country only started in 1995, and until 2000 our infrastructure was under-quality, one part and damaged during the bombing, so the internet access in Serbia for the first five years was achieved exclusively through cables from Hungary. This late development of the internet in Serbia and the delay of a few years in crossing from the Dale-ap to the ADSL and cable internet greatly affected the delay in the development of electronic trade itself. At the world level, electronic commerce developed much faster. In 1994, the US company Amazon was founded, which was originally designed as an Internet bookstore, to turn this business project into a global internet store of books, music disks and all other types of goods. In 1995, the company Ibej was launched, in fact, an auction site designed to exchange certain figures, which also quickly became the leading auction site for the purchase of the most diverse goods. Today we have a situation to perform more than a million auctions a day on this site, both at local and national and international level. So, when commercial internet use started in Serbia, international giants in the domain of electronic commerce were already developing and operating in the world. That initial delay still feels. Statistics indicate that in Serbia in 2006, as many as 88.4% of citizens have never bought online. In a ten-year period, so by 2016, the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who never bought online fell to 54.6%. The latest data we have is from 2018 and we can boast that the number of citizens who have never bought goods or services over the Internet has fallen to below 50% and is approximately 45%. Approximately 55% of Serbian citizens have at least one online shopping experience, and only 30.9% of citizens used electronic trade last year, which suggests that electronic trade in Serbia, although growth has not yet been sufficiently developed in recent years. Citizens are reserved for electronic trade for two reasons. First of all, there is fear of abuse of their personal data and credit card data, and there is also fear that real products will not fit the state shown on the Internet. For this reason, in our country, Internet stores are mostly used to inform themselves about products that are then physically purchased in stores where they are available. It is necessary to regulate the legal framework in such a way that the primary objective is to protect consumers and their rights. The draft laws we're discussing today have tried to solve this problem, but we in the SRS think it could have gone a little further with all these measures. First of all, the new law defines the concepts of electronic stores and electronic platforms and the concept of dropshipping itself, but fails to define a number of other forms of electronic trade that take place through electronic purchasing centres of large enterprises, electronic fairs, auctions and electronic interventions that are actually intermediation between consumers and suppliers, where consumers set their requirements, and the intermediary accepts offers from suppliers and chooses the most favourable where income, therefore, is not achieved by direct sales, but is achieved from membership fees and by paying the percentages per job done. The failure to define all these different types of electronic trade is practically open space for certain types of electronic trade to pass without legal regulation. At the same time, the bill defines the concept of a secret buyer, who will be tasked with curbing the gray economy in the domain of Internet trade, i.e. the aim of the inspection is to give the possibility of covert purchases, in order to obtain evidence of illegal sales. The illegal sale in our country is mainly carried out through social networks, mostly via Facebook and Instagram, where goods ordered from China are mainly sold – cosmetics, wardrobe, technology, children's toys, etc. Since it has been announced that the aim of the adoption of the consumer's laws is to protect consumers and increase confidence in electronic trade, I do not think the legal provisions are entirely adequate and directed exclusively to address the problem. When we look at the current situation in electronic trade, consumers are damaged in three ways. One way is when the ordered goods are not delivered at all, and another way is when the delivery of goods that are in real condition does not correspond to the photos shown on the Internet and the third way of abuse is when consumer data is subsequently misused so that they are contacted allegedly for different prize games, round centres etc. What's good is that so far there have been no cases of abuse of data from cards and alienation of other people's money. In order to increase consumer confidence, or customers, it is necessary to prevent any possibility of fraud by those who deliver products, sell something that is unquality or not even delivered. Therefore, we think that the fight against the gray economy in this form should not be a top priority, because if we want to encourage electronic trade and reach a European and world level, then the state should encourage absolutely every type of trade that is not harmful to customers. What you call a gray economy, or by selling it online, should not be banned at this very initial stage. The opening of an electronic store or any electronic platform requires significant funds. First of all, you need to rent a domain and a name, you need to rent a hosting or cloud on which to find the server, you need to buy an e-mmerc platform through which the store will be built, whether it is a Magento service, whether it is Open Cart, Shopify, whatever, it costs everything. I don't think it would be a bad idea to leave citizens with the opportunity to try that trade over social networks at the initial stage, to see if it pays them to invest their funds in another stage and start doing it professionally. Of course, the challenge to prevent fraud, which is much easier when it's done on social networks, certainly exists, but it could have been solved in another way, not only by ban. For example, you could form a public register of trade on social networks and sanction only those sellers who do not comply with the rules, or who cheat on customers. You could also track the state of accounts of persons engaged in social media trading and only when they achieve a certain profit can you condition them to open formal stores whose maintenance will definitely have to pay from month to month. Our view is that if we want to encourage electronic trade, we have to allow every form of it and make peace with the fact that our citizens currently do not have all the money to launch professional trade and that they should be allowed to do a certain amount, if they are doing business fairly, not pay taxes, so that everyone can try to break through in this world of Internet trade, and, of course, it is necessary to provide different types of education, technical and technological assistance, etc. You have announced that in the preparation of an action plan for the development of electronic trade, and I really hope that this action plan will be a little resolved, by allowing for a somewhat more liberal relationship between our sellers who do not have professional shops, because it is people who do not turn large funds, but often sell books or some of their personal belongings and small things to survive and we should support them in that, and certainly not to prevent them. As for citizens who sell services online, they usually sell these services abroad. It is about citizens who are quite technologically trained, who know that they are doing some work, whether it is about programming, creating applications, etc. I think the situation with these citizens is much easier and more favourable than the citizens who sell the goods. Citizens who sell goods abroad are really facing a lot of problems. First of all, there is the impression that legislators do not know that the large number of online operations in Serbia operating abroad do not have adequate collection processes, precisely due to the uncertainty of foreign payment process systems, because, you know, we only got a "Pei Pal" a few years ago. Many other services are not yet available in Serbia. We have problems that through some services it is possible, for example, just to send money, but not to receive, until it is certainly worth it to foreigners that as global payment operators, our Serb dinar, which is non-conversible, is introduced into its markets. In addition to working domestically, much more efforts should be made to negotiate with foreigners, to remove certain barriers to our country and make our citizens' business at international level far more cost-effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58148	Thank you. We'd be done with this morning's work. I'm setting up a regular one-hour break and we'll be back to work at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is Stanislav Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58150	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, respecting the agenda and agenda points, as well as the laws on the agenda, I will look back on them and comment on them in today's debate. However, before I begin, I cannot look back on the previous period, Mr. Chairman, where they are on domestic electronic media, but written, which are instructed by the Alliance for Serbia, only the ruling coalition MPs are mentioned. He mentioned Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, Marijan Risticevic, Mrs. Stanija Compirovic, Vladimir Djukanovic and many of my colleagues. I have to quote the way it was done. They said: "Employees of the ruling coalition are racing who will better and better praise the President of the Republic." Please, what kind of dictionary is that? I am now taking the opportunity to ask my colleagues and to find out - are we racing? You're going to let me answer that question first -- we're not racing, for a number of reasons. First of all, we're not athletes. They are doctors of science, rights, engineers, economists, farmers, who have been delegated to this high house to deliver their opinions and to lead the debate here on various topics. Secondly, we are simply not representatives of Mr. Alexander Vukic. But, the chairman, you noticed that whenever a party is mentioned, or its president, the presidents of the parliamentary groups appear to defend their position and party president. Are you saying that everyone here has the right to defend and say something, only Alexander Wolfie can be attacked? Well, gentlemen, he can't. I'm sorry. My colleagues from the SNS, as well as our coalition partners, will always represent what is right and what makes it possible to build a secure future for Serbia. Alexander Vukic is the one who has ensured stability, economic progress and is sure to take care of the national issue of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, as I said, I will continue to talk about the points of the agenda, so the Law on Electronic Trade as well as the stock exchanges. I think they're very well-coordinated. The e-commerce law was passed in 2009, 2013 amended. Therefore, the legal framework for the implementation of electronic trade itself is fully established and I find it very important that it is necessary to define precisely all mandatory information before the conclusion of the contract in electronic business, in order to be safe for all participants of the electronic business. By the way, one important and big step in the whole story is that we now have to conduct hidden purchases by state inspectors and that's very good, because it will affect the reduction of the grey economy. Our authorised representative Ana Čaapić explained very nicely that these are defined sales procedures, that we will now decidently know what a sale is, what a seasonal reduction and what an action is, simply so that customers will not be deceived in some way. 'Cause, you know, there's not some kind of goods that were on sale after the sale to come back at the same price and into the shelves. So it's just going to stay the way it is. And what's key in doing business on the stock exchanges itself, I think is most important for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for farmers, because they will become competitive on the market. Given how well these bill proposals are prepared and how they will affect the development of electronic trade, I will surely support them and call on my colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58151	My colleague Janosevic, you have referred one question. You gave the answer, too, but I'm obliged to give you the answer. Of course you're absolutely right and that what you're talking about is the legitimate right of every member of the group. On the other hand, we are not racing here, we are legitimately elected representatives of citizens who do one responsible and serious job and talk about alternatives, we are conducting a dialogue on how to reach as high-quality legal solutions as possible, which will be in the best interests of citizens. And we do it responsibly, seriously and consecratedly. I wish there were representatives of each other's side of the opposition, but I'm afraid they won't understand, despite everything we're doing and doing. But don't bother, we're still working, as we've done so far. Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, this law relating to trade will not be able to resolve the consequences of the Dosmanal regime from 2000 to 2012. In a few cases, I will point out the following in relation to the provisions of this law. Article 5 of this Law provides for the principle of equality and prohibition, therefore, discrimination. He says traders are equal and have the same legal position on the market. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that all merchants are not equal. They are not equal to the import lobby, because the import lobby has compromised that equality between our traders and our citizens. In fact, the import lobby is in a situation where it can import whatever it wants, sell to our citizens, but to draw money from Serbia abroad for its companies. I'll give you an example in the Panchev case. More than a hundred bars have been closed in Pancheva, therefore, shops that have been engaged in trade. Why are they closed? They're closed because an import lobby came in and a man came in, "Aviv Park" is called the company, which in one place concentrated the entire trade in Pancheva. No one can get to the sale of goods, because goods are imported from abroad, here they sell, and money is extracted from our country. It was made possible by the Dosmanian former regime. It will take you, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20 years to remove the consequences of this robbery and that thieving, and these masculine and malfeasance. This was about organised crime, and organized crime is one of the greatest dangers to modern society and civilization in general with international terrorism. That is why fighting organised crime is one of the central issues in many international and domestic forums. When it comes to the provision of a member of the Trade Act, the goods documents, you know how the dosmans imported the goods. From the waste from the EC, they imported our famous, alleged, thieves, frauds and smugglers who imported meat for processing. These were the NATO Pact stock reserves in Europe. For 20 years, they were in the freezers and were in a state of decomposition, but they are known to our advertisers in this country and who have now become rich to the point that they are richer than the state. You have that "Golden Fighter", you have "Matijevića". I would now suggest that a survey committee be formed in this assembly, to determine for the last 15 years where the meat was imported, and "Goldiborac" or "Matijević" have no skin in front of the slaughterhouse. Where did that meat come from? We are this question, Mr. Martinovic, you remember, we were still in motion in 2007 and 2008, in that part of the Assembly where we were, but the yellow ones managed to save the prisons of these two tycoons, so it should be determined that Argentina, is Brazil, and it went all the way across Kosovo and across Montenegro. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, where was the inspection, where was the surveillance? Where was the inspection to determine the girl? Where was the goods imported to Serbia? They missed it and didn't make it yellow on purpose. The yellow guerrilla had just organized such a store that it could only use them, Gilas and the others. But there's no skin anywhere. When it comes to this law on trade, I said it was a declaration and it should be taken into account, but I have objections to Articles 49, 50 and 51. If I may? I just want to say that it is possible to carry out, by inspection, exactly, search the apartment, search the premises, etc., what falls exclusively into the jurisdiction of the court, prosecutors and provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm sorry I don't have the time, but I did have some other notes to point out, which may be important to the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58153	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Comrade Eagle, do you want a replica? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58154	A few things Mr. Jojic mentioned are important and require that I add a few words. First, as far as the law itself is concerned, it clearly states that they are equal and have equal treatment on the market, therefore, all traders and not just traders. I think, Mr. Jojic, that it is not directly related to whether or not someone is engaged in a tight or exclusive, not even a majority, import or export, because import itself is not a bad thing. By importing you provide that alternative on the market that we talked about today during an earlier debate, I also spoke with one of the SRS MPs on the subject. This does not necessarily have to be harmful in itself, but whether it takes care of the interests of the state, the interests of society or of different private interests, it must be taken into account, and in that sense you are absolutely right. You didn't mention NATO for no reason, or their participation in these issues. Yesterday, I think we had a chance to remind ourselves that these representatives of the former regime, which you have also mentioned now, are looking at everything that is happening in Serbia today. When we talk, let's say, about weapons and military equipment, the fact that today Serbia is being strengthened in that segment bothers them, especially bothers them, you may have noticed that, they talked about it yesterday and in this lobby here, when modern weapons, when we get good equipment from the Russian Federation. You remember that story about planes, they repeated it yesterday or the day before, that Serbia, imagine what it is, I think Zoran Zivkovic said here, he's getting some buckets there, some old-fashioned stuff, and it's all used to, you know, make one of us rich. So they took care of the army so well, said former Chief of Staff General Dikovic, a man with direct knowledge that they were destroying the technique, that they were melting tanks. It's all been confirmed, all of it is known, but they took care of it so well that I don't know if one plane had the right condition. Today when we get them, today when we modernize ourselves in this sense and when the state is stronger on them and they say that – that's what some buckets do, as Zivkovic said, some ignorant people who have no idea about anything. You know why? You didn't mention the NATO Pact for no reason, because that's the reason of interest, the interests they recognize themselves. Now I'm going to read you some words that give this thing extra light.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58155	All you have to do is bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58156	Last sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58158	Ivan Vejvoda, otherwise former adviser Zoran Djindjic, said the following, and he said that two days ago in their favored press -- at a time when Zoran Zivkovic was in power, Serbia sought membership, not only in the EU, but also in NATO. So, man knows it and he confirms it. Until there was that change in the Constitution about neutrality. Now, you see, their representation represents a certain obligation for these people to attack Serbia today for every good co-operation, for every modernization, but also for the fact that Serbia today is a military neutral state that takes care of its Serbian interest and does not serve their import lobbyes or their NATO interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58159	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58160	Mr. Orlic, you're right when you say what they've been doing to do with this country, and today they're trying to come back to power so they can rob what's been done in the last ten years. I must remind you of the sanctions and the trades are imposed by the enemies of the Republic of Serbia. I have to remind you of the dark 1990s, and in order not to be dark when we were isolated from the whole world thanks to the Democrats. It was done by democratic states, and that's how they kept us in isolation for ten years. They say it was because of communism, and that is why we have suffered sanctions, until they have prepared a democratic society that will rule this country. But you know what they say? They say it was because they did not prepare a democratic society that would rule, but to make sure that democracy would rule, they forced democracy on us with tape bombs, but with poored uranium. Well, they say, you are a poor country, so you have earned such bombs. Then they say -- those democracies weren't enough just bombings, they occupied our AP KIM. Our man says it's our crib. You know what they say? They say, "You are an adult people, what do you need a cradle for?" That's why they sent Solana over here to give us a little bit of salt. Then our Democrats made a mini revolution and took over. So they made that revolution and immediately went into banks headed by Dinkic, but they didn't fall into hat stores or freak shops. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear, I suggest that it will surely take twenty years to remove the adverse consequences. (President: Please, just bring the end of it, colleague Jojic.) I will. If only a minute, Mr. Chairman? I'm sorry. When it comes to 24 privatisations, those robbers, not to mention, I'm just going to mention one robbery privatisation -- five sugars, five euros. Well, that thief today is richer than the state. Exports of sugar to EU countries, the Anti-Corruption Council says no investigation into who imported cheaper sugar from the sugar cane has been completed. It's also packed as more expensive homemade sugar than sugar tail. It was exported from 2001 to 2003 to the EU. In May 2003, the European Union introduced three-month sanctions and suspensions on imports of sugar. At that time, the Council for Corruption announced that at least 10 thousand drop-offs were imported on black. (President: I thank my colleague Jojic. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see that he's in jail. I don't see these thieves in jail. Ladies and gentlemen, until these thieves are in prison, we cannot move forward and lead this country in both democratic and economic and political terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58161	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58162	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, respecting my colleague Jojic, I advertise Article 106 and 107 - a violation of dignity, which is not so severe, but I must, for the truth, say that we have changed the rule of meat. It is no longer possible, and it was possible, I must give him the right to import such meat into Serbia. It's not possible anymore. It is not possible to introduce meat from the EU unless it is traded in the EU under the same conditions. So the same quality is guaranteed. As far as sugar goes, I have to give it a right, with one correction. It wasn't Miodrag Kostic who repacked the sugar for the Europeans, it was us. So, complete production of two years, Miodrag Kostic, it seems to me in 2003 and 2004, exported domestic sugar to the EU, and then a joint criminal enterprise, those who are not at meetings today, agreed to keep the price on the domestic sugar market at 600 euros. If you remember in Bosnia it was twice as cheap and that sugar imported via Montenegro from the sugar cane is placed on the domestic market by domestic customers, and our sugar was completely exported out. Of the 431 thousand tonnes produced in those first two years, they exported 400,000 tonnes and when they added Europe to, instead of 31 thousand tonnes that we exported, that we exported ten times more, the punishment came, and this country had to pay for all the sins of Miodrag Kostic. Regarding co-worker's sugar, Jojic added that Miodrag Kostic sold 15 thousand tonnes of sugar at the end of 2011, at the cost of 80 and some fening per kilogram, which is almost twice as expensive. To make it interesting, and sugar and money he kept to himself and it was Mirko Cvetkovic's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58163	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I have to ask you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marian Risticevic: No. I thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58164	I've already told you, Mr. Jojic, that you may be right, and I'm afraid now that maybe whenever you say that the damage that the former regime has done to this country takes many years. I'm afraid sometimes you're right when you say that it's been improving for decades that these people have destroyed. That, of course, has something to do with these things we talked about. I don't know whether you or Mrs Jovanovic, but I remember just a few days ago, you quoted here the contents of the Wikiliks Depeche, which talk about how these people treated these issues of relations with the NATO Pact and the official positions of Serbia. There was everything but respect for what is the official state's position, and clearly both the state and the people's interest. Of course, it was all for one brutal and senseless trade. I think that, when we last discussed it, you quoted the situation in which Vuk Jeremic, at the time the foreign minister, referred to the NATO officials of the pact on Serbia's positions and the direct question – what your aspirations in terms of co-operation with NATO, he cold, without consulting anyone, without minimum respect for the state's position, says - full membership, that's what we're interested in. Of course, he's always told a long story for the local public, and yet in those dispatches you have the same testimony that he will never be able to deny, because everyone knows it's impossible to claim that it's not true what it says there, that he has openly told foreign ambassadors – don't mind too much and don't pay attention to what I'm saying to the Serbian public, because my stories about the Serbian public are only for the needs of the campaign and for the needs of the same public, and what I really think is something else, and I will always explain my positions to you, face to face, it has nothing to do with what I'm saying publicly. Of course, it was only for this senseless trade, for someone to get support for a career, that someone could personally advance not only careerly, but also financially. Just look at the case of this Jeremiah, what millions of people are talking about, see the Gilas case of what millions are talking about? That's hundreds of millions. You, Mr. Jojic, are right when you say that these are tragic consequences, because while they were so rich, they traded everything and everything, the state was literally torn apart. Here's what the dimensions of that damage are because they like to talk, say, about EPS these days. I am this yellow tycoon, Gilas Dragan, who may be an example of the examples of how he is unfeelingly rich, and at the expense of the people, likes to talk about EPS. This again says someone is much closer to them than I am, Misa Brkic, a man who deals with economic criticism and who often speaks very critically, sometimes unreasonablely critical of my taste, about the economic results of the current government. He says this: the total loss of EPS value from 2006 to 2011, because it was such good governance, which was so well looked after by the state's interests, was 2.2 billion euros. So that's the order of size. The devastion literally of every segment of society that, unfortunately, Serbia, they cared about. They filled their pockets and ruined us. Miodrag Kostic, mentioned by Mr Risticevic, I will not look back much on this story about sugarcane, although I think you have made a mistake. There were three euros per sugar bar, three sugars per three euros, that's nine total, but that's the least important. I find that man much more interesting for another reason. That's what I was talking about here. He openly told media from the position of former DS director that he had knowledge that he had met with Zoran Djindjic himself that some Dragan Gilas had been recalibrating companies around Serbia in early 2000, calling for DS. I think it's very important to find out in the end what happened to these things, whether it's true or not, and I'm afraid if it gets out, it'll explain a lot to us about how Gilas had nothing, and suddenly he became as rich as he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58165	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58166	Mr. Orlic, I can't figure out how it's possible when there's a reduction in the cattle stock on Zlatibor to the extent that you have perhaps 500 sheep and that the production of dried meat products has increased? Once again, I must warn you that it is time for the competent state authorities to carry out a business audit of these two tycoons 15 years ago, because you will see and determine whether there is an abuse there, and these abuses do not go out of date for 20 years, so let's see where they imported from, who they sold to, who they poisoned, and the state does nothing. I will remind you that in 2014, organised crime prosecutor Mirko Radosavljevic said that by the end of the year we expect first-degree rulings on all the processes launched for controversial privatisations. That's the ones that are indisputable 24 and I think it's questionable 2. 1,000, because the thieves sold 2,280 companies. Until all these privatisations that were looting are audited, many abuses will be established there and someone will have to answer for it. I don't think there's much wisdom here. On the other hand, the SRS is against the import lobby, against, above all, imports without customs duties, because our farmers and other producers are damaged, because they cannot export their goods, and their goods are, both agricultural and other products, threatened to the extent that these are suffocating them, but these exports of capital, they take money from Serbia, there is a problem, and we give them all the benefits and even construction permits where the law requires that they have a building permit and that they have to meet certain conditions. The yellow ones, I remember, brought "Aviv" to Panchev, but now, gentlemen, you are in power. You answer to the people, you answer to the voters. Here you go, gentlemen, start the procedure. There's the prosecutor, there's the court, there's got to be a reaction. It cannot wait, nor can the interests of our farmers be threatened in this way, etc. So I believe that the public prosecutor's office must put these 24 privatisations on the agenda immediately and go to court, that the court makes decisions on who is guilty, who is not guilty, so that we can see how many billions of euros Serbia has damaged only on these 24 privatisations without talking about 2.280.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58167	Thank you. Col. Rističević, you want a replica of the presentation of fellow Orlic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58168	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Orlic, as in sports fishing, everything we catch, especially the tycoon, and from the joint criminal enterprise to the party of the former regime, everything we catch and arrest, the prosecution and the judiciary kisses and let go, as in sports fishing, kisses and release. We catch them, and then they attack the Prime Minister why he called someone, why he discovered the facts of a criminal life, etc. I must remind myself that in 2007, paraphrased in 2008, that we, beside the SAA, were, thanks to me, I think, in Article 32, introducing levies in the last three or four years for dairy products, meat, milk, to protect domestic production. It's the weapons we had, it's the weapons that others left us. I must repeat, since three years ago it is not possible to introduce meat frozen over six months of age, or use it in Serbia's territory, and that older than six months, is frozen. Anyone who notices such meat shall report to the competent authorities or to me and shall be severely punished by the seller and the manufacturer of such products. We cannot ignore the state's obligations, as long as trade with the EU is 66% of the total trade in goods, 17% is CEFTA, and if they took it suddenly, without the right to Article 32 and to introduce the levies, if they took it suddenly to introduce some other measures, we would break the back of Serbia's economy. We now have to take care of ourselves because we do business in the given conditions and I must say that we are far better off than the party of the former regime. Our exports are growing. Our import-export coverage from 54% jumped to almost 81%, I think it's 75% now. They would do anything to me that Mr. Jojic says, especially to the tycoons, we would easily end up with them. They could easily feed me the poor and raise my wages, but I'm telling you, find a tycoon that was created during this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58169	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Comrade Orlic, you are mentioned during the presentation of colleagues Rističević. You have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58170	As far as the SAA is concerned, at that time, and there is certainly a year, there are two exactly how we discussed amendments to the laws that we protected our domestic agricultural producers from the potentially severe consequences of this SAA because they negotiated it as negotiated by those who did it at the time you mentioned it, Mr. Risticevic. Do you remember how that debate of ours went? We find a solution so that no agreement can be compromised either, but neither our people, so that we respect them, but also to protect that our land can't be sold into impunity at the same time and find a good model and fit everyone behind it. Do you remember what those irresponsible people said that they didn't remember, because of course they didn't think about anyone but themselves, and at that time when they were negotiating the SAA and when they were doing anything else? They said, "No, it's not a good agreement, neither is your solution. It's no good." No protection measures, no Europe, nothing's wrong with them anymore. They didn't care about anything. They didn't care about anything, not at the time we discussed it here, and at least at the time when they sat on every possible and impossible chair and filled their pockets without a doubt. We mentioned WikiLeaks. Mr. Jojic, let's not forget, and this Dragan Gilas, which we talked about today, is in those dumplings too. And there it writes, and much like what Jeremic said – let you do what I say to the public. Is there any in those dispatches, you, I think, and you published a book as a party on the subject, that US Ambassador Dragan Gilas said -- these projects that I'm waving to the public, it's just marketing, it's a lot more marketing than any other matter, let it go, and don't mind that, it's a story for the gullible, and that's why I keep the public quiet, but some other things are essential. Now, when you see how this conto of Dragan Gilas and his companies were moving, you know what that is. That's what money is all about. You're right, Mr. Jojic. These are things that should have a proper epilogue. I absolutely agree, institutions should do their job. We always agree on that, there's nothing controversial about it. The police, the prosecution, the court. Now, who controls that court and to what extent? Who controls the prosecution and to what extent? And that's what we talked about here a couple of times, and we didn't get along exactly every time. But you can see what the reaction is whenever institutions deal with these issues. It immediately becomes a halabuka on the other hand – alas, so it is a politically instructed process. You say -- Dragan Gilas and these things, did mention trade, so that privileged trade he did with RTS, when at ten times the market price he bought commercial seconds, and then at ten times the price he sold, they should deal with state institutions. You're just saying that, that's all. You don't say a word - you go to jail and you're going to be so many years, you don't say anything, you just say it - the institutions say theirs and let them do what they think should be the letter of the law and the point. You get right on the other side – it's pressure. And, look, it's not enough, but then I'm Dragan Gilas, so he's breaking into a police station, so he's suing the state of Serbia, the same country he's getting hungry finds it appropriate to sue, so he doesn't even know what his party's name is. Did you see what those papers he filed look like? Says the president of the Freedom and Rights Party. He doesn't even know his name is the party he bought. (President: I thank you. Then he threatens those cops, threatens the state authorities, and that's the haughtiness that's used to force, the haughtiness that's used to her being above everything and everyone. And for them, by their strange criteria, there has never been, nor will there be, to the public, nor will there be law, nor order. There is only one thing – their interest and their money. That's why they're where they are. And what do we think about all that, so we said when we passed laws that made 500 convictions for crime and corruption in the last year? It's our relationship to both law and obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58171	Thank you. Before we continue with the replicas, just one request. You have, colleague Jojic, both you and colleagues, Risticevic, a basis for replication. I suppose after that, a colleague of Orlic will come forward, but please, just one thing to focus on. I don't want to interrupt and reduce the quality and constructive debate, but to focus and concentrate that the replica still lasts up to two minutes, because we still have a lot of colleagues waiting and want to speak in order of the MPs according to the application for the word. My colleague Rističević, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58172	Here, to confirm Mr. Jojic's right to the line. Serbia exports almost 3.5 tonnes of corn annually, exports hundreds of thousands of tonnes of soy products, exports cattle flour, exports to the shotgun. Serbia exports very good agricultural products and cereals, and has imported meat of suspicious quality. We, Mr. Jojic, have partly put an end to that story. They ask us why we reduced subsidies per hectare. Because we added livestock subsidies, for that, for cows, we kept a milk premium, which is not the case in Europe. In order to encourage livestock, we didn't want to export grains and subsidize cereal production for other people's cattle, and in return to import meat of suspicious quality, and here I give you right, and then we changed the rule, wanting to cut it down. We think that we are also increasing incentives in the future and thus raising our production, and raising the level of incentives to a higher level, not because of agricultural producers only, but also because of the slaughterhouse industry that we can have, that the farmer earns, and that the slaughterhouse industry has safe and favourable raw materials, that he can make a sufficiently competitive product and export it to the market, above all CEFTA, to export to the Israel market, to export to the kosher market, to halal slaughter, etc. We will continue on that path, but our industry is not yet as strong as we can deliver subsidies to our farmers as much as they deserve. I think that agricultural policy should be led in favour of Serbian producers, processors, and certainly not in favour of Serbian tycoons, who have set up the Serbian judiciary and are therefore not responding for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58173	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, right on the line. Here you go, colleague Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these problems in which Serbia is located are closely linked to the functioning of the judicial system in this country. The issue of judicial reform has not been ended yet. How is it possible that the organized crime prosecutor promises to be in the year of the first degree sentence for these robbery privatisations, and to this day there is nothing? How is it possible that yesterday it was published in the daily newspaper "Dnevnik", that only in one case, due to detention for 10 months, the state paid out of the budget of 112 million dinars? Guys, it's not possible to tolerate it anymore. You know the choice of judges and prosecutors made in 2009 when Nata Mesarevic set up who she wanted, and she had no right to participate in the trial for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. When it comes to this, Mr. Risticevic, what you were saying about agriculture, the SRS really does what it can do and we advocate a better position of agricultural producers, but at the same time I suggest that the coalition authority pass law or amendments and supplement the State Agricultural Land Act and that 10 hectares of state agricultural land be given to every young man who wants to stay in Serbia for 10 years free of charge. In this way, we will keep the young and have opportunities to have more agricultural producers in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58175	Thank you, colleague Jojic. We continue in the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go, colleague Jolovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58176	I would like to thank the chairman, respected ministers and associates, the main objective of the Trade Law proposal is to secure a stable and supplied market in order to ensure that market economy is as efficient as possible. In the system of regulations governing the transport of goods and services, the Trade Act has a central place, as it regulates all traffic, as will also the purchase and sale and behaviour of participants in that traffic. What is important is that the Law on Trade will allow for the reduction of the level of the gray economy and the modernisation of the entire trade sector. The adoption of this new law on trade, which regulates the activity of trade, represents a continuity and upgrade of the applicable law. The fact is that online purchases of goods and services are growing from year to year, so, given the growing importance of this form of purchase, the new law defines several forms of trade. The new law also defines the obligations of the trader, who conducts electronic trade, as the acquisition of data on traders and goods that sell. There are no precise data on the number of electronic trade operators, because there are no relevant registers, and besides, many non-registered entities carry out their business activities through social networks. Some 400 companies are registered in the Agency for Business Registers, but these data are not accurate. A significant number of persons performs an unregistered activity of trade because it is so difficult to control them. This law will change that anyway. Trade is a segment of an economy where competition is growing and it is much harder to sell goods than to produce them. The simpler and more transparent conditions of business, which are defined by this new law, will lead to the creation of new business chains. The regulations governing the market should be such as to allow easy access to the market and equal operating conditions for all, and this will now be made possible by this new law on trade. In line with everything, I call on you to give support to the laws, which are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58177	Thank you, colleague Jolovic. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58178	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with our associates, today we have a set of trade laws on the agenda, and I will pay attention to the proposal for a law on trade. About 19% of the total number of employees were employed in the store. The share of GDP trade is moving around 10%. In 2017, trade in large and small enterprises conducted some 33,000 companies in Serbia, accounting for about 33% of the total number of registered companies. The main objective of this law is to ensure a stable and supplied market, with as little State interference in trade as possible, in order to ensure a more efficient market economy. The restriction of trade, which is necessary to establish and maintain market stability and supply, is determined exclusively and subject to the prescribed conditions and must be abolished as soon as the reason for the measure of restriction is established. In the system of regulations governing the transport of goods and services, the Trade Act has a central place, as it regulates the overall traffic and behaviour of participants in this traffic, i.e. the transport of goods and services in a general way. The development of the trade sector, and in particular the retail sector of the economy, has a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors and their participants. Modernisation and growth of the retail sector is also directly overtook to the development of all other sectors of the economy. Official EU documents point out that retailing is a key link between manufacturers and final consumers, but also has a major impact on the environment, providing direct links between rural and urban development. The trade activity was regulated by the 2010 and 2013 Trade Act, which regulates the conditions for the performance of this activity. The application showed that certain provisions should be reviewed, and in 2016, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism formed a task force to analyse the regulations of the Ministry's work, especially regulations governing the functioning of the market. After the analysis carried out by the task force, it was concluded that a new law should be joined, as it was necessary to amend a large number of members of the existing law. What I particularly want to point out in this proposal for a law on trade is that this bill specifically defines sales incentives. In the current law, sales incentives were generally defined, but this led to a number of ambiguities. The new law regulates trade and is closer to the conditions and means of supplying goods and services with particular incentives and advertising of sales of goods with sales incentives. The draft law lays down the supervision and the actual jurisdiction to enforce the laws and regulations laid down under this law. With regard to the actual competence to carry out inspection controls, this law retains an earlier legislative solution to entrust the tasks of inspection control to the units of local self-government. In this way, there is a decentralisation of the work of inspection supervision that is closely related to municipal order, street trade, gigs, etc. As well as the affairs of local self-government. On the other hand, a single organisational solution to the market inspection in the part of the inspection work on the traffic of goods and services that is essential to the unity and integrity of the market in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the legal position of the entity on it, remains. The draft law regulates the measures which impose a market inspection in accordance with its powers, namely: preventive measures, removal of established illegality, temporary prohibition of trade in goods and services, temporary closure of a sales facility, temporary prohibition of trade in personal offering, temporary prohibition of the provision of distance trade and confiscation of goods. The proposed law is a good legal solution that fully regulates the area of trade and therefore I call on fellow Members to support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58179	Thank you, colleague Mitrovica. The word has a folk letter from Snezana R. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58180	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, all three draft laws we are talking about today in the Assembly have their own weight and importance and their adoption, as well as the application in practice, which is more important, will enable the single market, the full legal position of economic operators and the system of performance of certain businesses and other activities. Ensuring a stable and supplied market with as little State interference as possible in order to ensure a more efficient market economy is the basic objective of the Trade Act. The development of the trade sector, and in particular the retail sector of the economy, has a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors and their participants. Modernisation and growth of the retail sector has a direct impact on the development of all other sectors of the economy and is a key link between manufacturers and end-users, and also provides direct links between rural and urban development. The law on trade has made significant changes with regard to general conditions for the conduct of trade on the internal market. A reform of inspection supervision has been carried out that conducts a market inspection of new organisational and legal solutions in order to build a modern and efficient control system, respect for the prescribed conditions in the transport of goods and services, which also provide legal certainty for transport operators. The long-standing application of the law has conditioned the need to review certain provisions by adopting modernised rules. Accordingly, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications established a working group in 2016 to analyse the regulations of the ministry's work, especially regulations governing the functioning of the market. After an analysis of the law was carried out, the working group concluded that a number of members of the law were needed to ensure its more efficient application and smooth functioning of the market. It points to a systematic and responsible approach by the ministry to monitor modern trends and market requirements and responds to new types and forms of trade, such as electronic trade, i.e. online trade. Contemporary transaction flows show that electronic trade, i.e. the sale of goods and services via the Internet, is increasingly taking hold and that the economic development of the country is not a necessary condition for the growth and development of this market. The geographical potential of this market is unlimited, so traders are increasingly deciding to open their internet stores in order to place goods and services not only in their own country, but worldwide. Statistics say that over 50% of Internet users did not buy goods online and this points to the great potential this type of trade has. The forecasts are that by 2030 more than 85% of companies will be globally engaged in electronic trade and it is necessary that the Republic of Serbia also develops this area to exploit all technological potential for economic prosperity, because electronic trade has more advantages and these are that it is available 24 hours seven days a week, 365 days a year and, of course, at any location in the world. In view of the above, and given that internet sales have increased participation in total retail traffic, there was a need for more detailed regulation, as has been done with this bill. I will refer to several sentences and to the Stock Exchange Act for a reason because the stock market, the safety indicator, the competitiveness of a particular economy, is regulated, which also affects the elimination of non-market risks in business. The creation of a modern stock market contributes to the construction of a market-oriented economy and, firstly, the agricultural sector. This law establishes the necessary legal and institutional frameworks for the development of trade, by forward contracts, which provides the basis for the introduction of mechanisms that eliminate the highest business risks in the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law is also important for the public sector, and the expected effects include more efficient management of commodity reserves, as well as improving the development policy of agriculture and agrobusiness. Given the importance of all proposed laws, in voting day, Serbian People's Party MPs will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58181	I thank my colleague Petrovic. Comrade Radojevic, you are in the system, on what basis do you want? You can't talk like you're authorized now. When we exhaust the list of order of MPs, then you can use your time. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58182	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Minister Djordjevic, with associates, are witnessing the rapid development of electronic trade in Serbia, and only last year 1.8 million people bought goods online, which is 50% growth compared to 2015. Such major changes in trade and the transition to the Internet as a place of purchase suggest the need to regulate this type of trade and I think it is the right time for a new law on trade, which regulates electronic trade and electronic business. In particular, the following forms of electronic commerce are defined: sales via electronic store, e-store where the trader offers goods and services and sells goods and services via an electronic platform. The determination of the obligations of e-commerce traders, as well as the acquisition of data on the trader and the goods to be sold, is one of the important reasons for the adoption of this law. The inaccuracy of the obligations that e-traders had to fulfil created problems which, after the law was passed, we hope will not be. Also, an important goal will be achieved, reducing the level of gray economy due to the number of unregistered entities that are selling via the internet. Also, opportunities are being established for the market inspector to conduct a hidden purchase of goods "mysteries shop", in order to determine the facts of illegal trade, thus creating a way to prevent the grey economy and unfair competition. The e-commerce industry has all the conditions and features of an extremely attractive market, it is large, growing and profitable. In Serbia, as for every small market, it is characteristic that global trends in new technologies and new methods, such as electricity trade, are first accepted by consumers. Then, mostly in one or two years, trends also take place in local stores. It is obvious that these trends have taken place in our trade, so this proposal for a law on the one hand is an incentive for faster and safer development of local e-traders, and on the other hand, consumer protection where the intention to increasingly use e-commerce is obvious. However, the reduction in the amount of transactions shows, among other things, a lack of trust in new technologies and a new method of buying and paying. In the world, in the next three years, electronic trade will be tripled, and according to some forecasts, which, by passing this law, is of additional importance. In Europe alone, the amount of e-commerce sales exceeds 600m euros, and in Serbia there were fourm euros in online transactions with about a million citizens using this type of trade. With this law, I expect domestic businesses to be encouraged, to use opportunities and transfer their trade online. Also, it will be possible to know what e-shops are of trust, where people will be able to free and without fear of trading. Unfortunately, only about 1,500 merchants in Serbia are now "online" and the possibility of moving to an electronic platform of a larger number of traders in Serbia is really high after the law is passed. National Bank of Serbia Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic said in 2017 at the opening of a conference -- electronic trade in Serbia, a safe way to shop on the Internet, that it is important to contribute further to the development of electronic trade in our country, so that, as in countries like China, where it becomes an old concept, the final part of everyday life. In this regard, the decision of the National Bank of Serbia to remove one of the largest across obstacles, so-called ‘inter drawer fi’, as the basic generator of high fees for traders in card payments. As next measure, an instant payment was introduced. The objectives of service users have a higher choice, better profiled services and lower prices, traders accessing a larger market to make banks more productive at lower transaction costs and better operational training, financial services to become more inclusive and people informed in making financial decisions. This approach by the National Bank of Serbia has been repeatedly paid to citizens, including businesses. As I come from Leskovec, a city that has a sudden development since 2012, I can highlight several trends that are in line with the bill. In the last six years, 6,000 new jobs have been opened in Leskovac in foreign and domestic companies, especially at Jinsi companies, Autostop, Falke, Jura, and now Aptiv. The capacities of domestic companies also spread, and so until before 2012, we had a very underdeveloped trade where only two locals, only one trade chain operating on Serbia's territory was present at Leskovac, while recently we have witnessed literally booming trade in Leskovac. In addition to "Rode", and "Idea", which built a new trading facility this year, the "Lidl", "Maxi", "Aman" came to Leskovac, and "Capital Park" was built. Leskovac has become a very resourceful city and because of the competition it has created, prices are lower, and citizens have a big choice. An important element of the new law improves consumer protection comes at the right time, the development of trade and the greater trade offer imposes the need to regulate the terms, to inform customers about reductions, discounts and the like. This law defines the basic forms of reduction, action offer, seasonal reduction and sale and each of them has specific rules, all in order to prevent unfair practices of misleading customers about discounts and reductions, as different terms have been used. Finally, SNS policy, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, as a policy of protecting citizens and improving living and business conditions, has also been confirmed by this law by the minister, with great support from the citizens of Serbia. Of course, in voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58183	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58184	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable citizens who are monitoring the transfer of this assembly debate, we are today discussing three laws relating to the area of trade. Once again, it should be mentioned that practically one law is new, and this is the Stock Exchange Act. The second law, i.e. the proposal for a law on trade, is the same as new, but I must remind myself, that there was a law passed in 2010, but my colleagues illustrated and said that the commission, which formed the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and Telecommunications, when it analysed all the elements of the law, showed that more than 60% of the members in that law should be changed and that the right solution was to adopt a new law. So this law that has been passed can be fully regarded as a single new law, relating to trade. The Third Law on Electronic Trade, in fact, changes and complements the modernisation of the previous law. What is to say, most of the MPs we are discussing here, although we are not directly in the trade defence, is that we are now the first time in Serbia. So that's something that so far regulation of legal, legislative, as far as stock exchanges are concerned, didn't exist. Now for the first time in this law, that area is regulated. As soon as it did not exist, there was virtually no regulatory mechanisms or any regulatory body that would issue work permits, which could control the goods quickly, as well as the absolute absence of protective mechanisms guaranteeing in those relations the payment, by the seller, on the other hand the delivery of goods to the customer in an appropriate manner carried out. So it's an area that's right now being arranged, which is particularly important, because it concerns agriculture. The formation and adoption of this law gives the stock exchange greater authority, but on the other hand, it has a greater obligation to control and guarantee all transactions through the stock market. So now they have greater powers, but quite logically increased responsibility. The production stock market in Novi Sad has practically functioned as some kind of brokerage house and has not functioned at all through this productive stock market of foreigners. Because there were no legislative regulations, it did not have any main mechanisms to guarantee proper functioning. The next paper through this law is that all participants in the transactions in this stock exchange, pardon the market, which is from one customer, seller and stock exchange, will have to lay down guarantees, with guarantees from the very product stock market being the founding stake of 50 million dinars, and now to the buyer, i.e. the seller of the stock market, to determine the amount of guarantee they will have to place on the special purpose account of the stock exchange in that business. Such means shall be used in case the seller or the buyer does not meet their obligations, in order to settle the accounts. What is equally significant in this Stock Exchange Act is that the Securities Commission has been introduced as a regulator. So now the Committee on Papers is the value regulator that will control the work of both the market itself and all the transactions that the stock exchange members are carrying out through it. In this way, it will directly affect the security of the entire system and possibly the removal and pre-arrangement of abuses as could possibly be the setting of prices in the commodity stock market. The fifth thing that is significant, which I mentioned earlier because of the absence of regulation, was not possible now, that domestic and foreign legal persons, as individual agricultural producers, will now be able to trade on the market. The mentioned product stock exchange, which I mentioned, practically did not exist in Novi Sad because, I said, there were no guarantees, or there was no system to allow these foreign companies to deliver goods of the same quality in large quantities. The product stock market in Novi Sad, practically through it did not exist any trade of foreign companies because, I said, there were no guarantees, or there was no system that would allow these foreign companies to deliver goods of the same quality in large quantities, so now, besides domestic ones, foreign companies will be able to function. The formation of these stock exchanges is quite logical and is important for improving and increasing exports, especially agricultural products, and on the other hand Serbia can now be positioned as a regional centre for trade in agricultural products. The sixth thing is that there will always be reliable information on price developments in the stock market, i.e. there will always be a special place in the stock market where it will be and at any moment compare and establish a reper price that will be publicly available. Because my colleagues had previously processed the other two laws, I talked a little bit more about this stock exchange bill. Other colleagues will say and say a qualitatively new solution to the Law on Trade and the Law on Electronic Trade. In voting day, of course, I will support this law, as well as my colleagues from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58185	I thank you, my colleague, the Prince. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58186	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have very good and quality laws ahead of us. In view of the great interest of the public and citizens on this subject, I would like to reiterate that in the Law on Trade and Change and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade, they were created in co-operation of the Resord Ministry with the economy. So that the business chamber of Serbia and the companies around it, the National Alliance for Economic Development, representatives of the state authorities, representatives of relevant institutions and organisations participated, so that all interested people had the opportunity to make their remarks, suggestions and proposals and to consider them, and much was included in the draft laws. When we talk about the proposal for a law on trade, as a central law, and I am not reducing the importance of these two laws that are on the agenda today, because they simply complement each other and are connected, it should be said that it is a whole new law that is detailed and fundamentally regulated by the area of trade. This is how we want to ensure the smooth functioning of the market. In view of the fact that you have also stated that around 19 to 20% of the total number of employees are employed in the store and that the share of trade in our country's GDP is about 10%, it is clear that these laws are of paramount importance for the more efficient market environment and for the market economy. So these and these laws, modern laws are necessary and necessary. As far as the Trade Act is concerned, a lot of newspapers and a lot of changes have been proposed. The amendments relate to detailing the appropriate terms, in the sense that the new law has made them more understandable, clearer, and in law we have new concepts that do not exist in the current law, the existing terminology and definitions have been improved, so that all these newspapers contribute to the legal certainty of all those involved in this business, i.e. I'm a shopkeeper. The law on trade in a comprehensive way regulates the overall transport, supply and sale and behaviour of all participants in this transport. The new law and its application will help make the market work in a simpler and more transparent way, that the economy works more efficiently, which is also the goal. We want strong, strong, healthy competition in the trade sector that will help lower prices and consumer well-being, i.e. Citizens. We want an even faster development of the economy and society, and this government and the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, are fully committed to this path and we are giving them full support. We are working not only on harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, but we are working and affecting the development of entrepreneurship, the development of fair competition and the equality of traders, and all in order to successfully develop and modernise trade in Serbia, because we want progress, we want to improve on our country and for our citizens and we want, of course, to step up with the world. The law regulates internet sales, which has been mentioned so far, and you have talked about it in the opening statement, and so have my fellow MPs. At the end of the presentation, I just want to do a quick summary. The law on trade regulates the conditions and ways to conduct trade in the single market of the Republic of Serbia, contributes to the improvement and modernisation of trade, contributes to the protection of the market, so that it is stable and supplied. A reform of inspection supervision has been carried out, which will ensure the legal safety of transport operators and strengthen entrepreneurship culture in Serbia and, of course, contribute to the repression of the gray economy, defending the interest of the Republic of Serbia. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support all draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58187	Thank you, colleague Mrdaković Todorovic. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58188	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, the main objective of this law is to secure a stable and supplied market with as little State interference as possible to ensure that market economy is as efficient as possible. The implementation of the previous law has shown that certain provisions should also be reviewed for this reason by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications in 2016 established the Working Group for the analysis of the regulations contained in the work of the Ministry, and in particular the regulations governing the functioning of the market. An analysis has shown that it is necessary to make changes to a large number of members in order to ensure, above all, a more effective application of the law and a smooth functioning of the market. Also, in order to better understand the law, it was necessary to do a new system and division of the law, a new division of trade was made that is in line with the rights and obligations of the Consumer Protection Act and, of course, the expansion of other types of sales, in particular, as said by colleagues, of internet sales, which has increased participation in total retail traffic and the need for its more detailed regulation. Of course, with the rapid development of the state, the arrival of a large number of foreign investors in our country, the development of the market, change business conditions certainly for the better, as well as for trade. With progress, it was necessary to make certain changes in this area. While this government is passing new laws from this area, in line with Serbia's accelerated development and progress, we need to remind what the trade looked like after 2000. So, after 2000, we had a trade, but above all, trade in human lives and human fates, through the robbery privatisations that were conducted, when hundreds of thousands of citizens were out of work and their families were left without existence. Also, they traded well with the pride of the Serb people, the Serb army, which they had thrown on their knees, destroying everything on the agenda, primarily the military chamber, and of course the weapons, melting it in the ironworks and thus weaken Serbia's battle effort. There is also this excellent trader Vuk Jeremic who has torn up the state of Serbia-Montenegro for a seven-day night stay in 29 apartments on St. Stefan for him and his suite. We also have a very successful trader, Dragan Gilas, who entered politics, according to 74,000 euros, and then reported 25m euros after a few years and stole 500m euros. They also traded with Kosovo and Metohija, introduced a border between Serbs and Serbs. Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic agreed to recognise Kosovo's independence, but asked the Cypriots to do so a few days after the election, because they thought they would win Boris Tadic. They also traded across the country because they treated her ruthlessly and stole people's money, robbed and in 2012 led the country to bankruptcy. Today, when we have affairs on a daily basis between Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, and the criminals, they have reached for the most dangerous type of trade – treason. Everywhere and anywhere in the world, they offer everything and everything of Kosovo's independence, from Serbia's admission to NATO and who knows what else to help them, and that is their main point in the negotiations to violently bring down the power of Aleksandr Vukic, so that they can get the authorities to continue robbing and dispersing Serbia. I must not forget to add to this family Deputy Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, who whenever one of the foreign diplomats comes to Shabac, he offers them. This one, according to the media, offered before the Alliance for Serbia to recognise genocide in Srebrenica and to introduce Serbia into the NATO Pact, in return to violently bring Alexander Vukic down from power and bring his team to power and teaching with the robbery of the state. That is why we need to keep talking and reminding what the previous government has done so that it does not forget what kind of pests have ruled Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58189	I thank my fellow prince. The word has the people's messenger, Andrian Avramov. Here you go. I'm just asking you to sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58190	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, this law regulates the way in which trade in the Republic of Serbia is done and thus the new bill promotes trade and protects consumers, but at the same time the market. The Republic of Serbia provides conditions for maintaining the stability and supply of the market, especially when it comes to goods or services of existential importance to our citizens. All of us citizens are users of different types of trade, because otherwise we would not be able to exist for this reason it is important to regulate the rights and obligations of the state towards the final customers. The state of Serbia, headed by the ministry, is intensively working on incentives for domestic and foreign investors investing in Serbia. Since June 2018, 18,000,000 euros have been allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget and related to incentives. This money is intended for projects that plan to employ more than 100 workers, but also large investment projects of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia and for our citizens. Also, these incentives cover small and medium-sized enterprises where we have issued public calls based on which small and medium-sized enterprises will make even 1.7 billion dinars of grants available to entrepreneurs. These programmes are support programmes related to development projects for beginners in business and equipment procurement. It is important to note that competitive documentation is becoming simpler, and available funding thanks to financial stability and the budget of our country is growing. Trade is a segment of an economy where competition is growing. We are aware that it is much harder to sell than to produce goods, so this is also one of the reasons why we want to amend the previous trade law. The state of Serbia has provided education from different types of areas, related to trade, where we are actually helping our citizens in the private sector how and how to further improve and speed up sales, attract new potential clients, how to apply the business plan, which is important marketing activities and many others. I think it's of paramount importance, because I certainly come from private waters, actually, before I became a national MP, and it's very important for private and small and large enterprises. We also abolished some tax imposed by the previous government, all in order to relieve and further assist small and medium-sized enterprises. The reasons for the new promotion of this law are also because of the great abuses, especially trade in influence, which were in the past. I'd like to remind myself together how it is during our predecessors so-called. democratic authorities, through a small retrospective of events, functioned by the then government of the Republic of Serbia. In 2001, the EU allowed Serbia to export sugar produced in our country, and then imposed sanctions on sugar exports in 2003, for the reason that it was found that it was exported from 100-300,000 tonnes of annual sugar, which does not actually exist in either production or legal imports. Even then, an urgent determination of responsibility was requested in 2003. The EU Council then requested a report in 2004 and then 2005. The Council's conclusion, then, in co-operation with the Anti-Organised Crime Administration, was that the activities of the then government actually contributed to the further cover-up of the sugar affair, that the sugar industry in Serbia had not recovered and that then the privatisation of the sugar industry led to the collapse of the two largest sugars, Belgrade and grains. I was already talking about the Privatisation Agency, which, fortunately, has been shut down. It's a classic example of trade in influence. At that time, the Privatisation Agency was completely detached from the context of institutional and economic reforms and knowingly made inaccuracies in the regulations, thus creating great and extensive opportunities for the abuse of trade and corruption. We have the Sartida case delivered to the government on 10 May 2004. In fact, the Trovin Court has made an agreement with a representative of the then government and a privileged buyer with a drastic violation of trustee rights and, of course, against the damages of the state, our Serbia. The sales method itself states on the suspicion of trade by an impact in which the highest authorities of the executive authority were involved. We have a report on the concession for the Horgos-Požega highway, in fact, an analysis of the award of concessions for the financing of design, construction, use, maintenance of the Horgos-Požega highway, is an example of how then politicians and executive authorities in Serbia use public goods in order to achieve party interests, which is seen in the fact that the public road is built to the election base of the then minister although its destination has no greater economic, financial or social significance from the point of view of the general interest of the Republic of Serbia. By closing that contract, the Serbian government overstepped its competences, which represents a classic example of trade in influence. There are many examples of how and in what way the powers of the government representatives, of course the previous authorities, were misused by trade influence, how many state-owned companies were sold into devastation, how many workers were then left on the street without a job, and hence their families without monthly incomes. The paradox throughout the story is that at the time, the government was the most in charge of the citizens of Serbia, and corruption and pocketing were the most represented. When all debts are collected, 18.5 billion euros are borrowed. So many, dear citizens, amounted to Serbia's public debt. The EU Council's analysis then suggests serious failures in curbing corruption and trade in influence that have led to major disturbances in every segment of our society. Even then, measures to curb corruption have been recommended to protect citizens from the terrible consequences of this system and mode of work preventing foreign investors from investing in our country. Because of these abuses of trade by the influence of various companies, we have come to the most obvious example of the track between large capital and executive power and serious systemic corruption has been created and destroyed everything we have created and acquired for years. The real question and the most important question today is what has changed since then? The main objective of this law is to ensure a stable and supplied market, but at the same time with respect and application of national competences. The adoption of a new law is to prevent trade from affecting, in fact, the modernisation of certain regulations, and their improvement, especially when it comes to internet sales. At the same time, it makes it easier for traders and, in some ways, relieves them. The adoption of a new law will not impose new economic costs, which is very important to point out. Our government's policy is growth and consumption. We have entered history as a country that has quickly come out of a terrible crisis and has achieved excellent results in almost impossible conditions. We have investment and export-based growth, we have increased minimum earnings, wages and pensions, and we are still working. Thanks to such a way of fighting, the public debt has been reduced, we have money to help our people and to restore our economy. Thanks to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the SNS, factories and new jobs, new schools and kindergartens, hospitals and homes of health, apartments, cultural institutions, new roads, new bridges have been opened. We have a significant number of new investments, economic progress has been established. We have a great realization of infrastructure projects, economic results and we are investing in our children's education. And for the end. I'll definitely support that law. It wasn't easy. The heavy measures have been passed, but we keep everything stable. That's what our Serbian President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, said, who, unlike the predecessors, says exactly what we did and what we plan to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58191	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Avramov. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58192	I thank the chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, MPs, citizens of Serbia. The public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Trade and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade took place in February of this year in the Ministry of Trade, where over 80 participants participated, including numerous representatives of the economy and state bodies, as well as relevant business institutions and trade organisations. Since about 32% of the total number of registered entities operate in the trade sector. The proposal for a trade law first defines an electronic store, as well as an electronic platform, where the consumer is in a contractual relationship with the trader, but the procurement, payment and delivery procedures are not carried out by the trader, but also through a platform that is also in a contractual relationship with the trader. Also in the proposal for a law on trade, a brand-new system has been proposed to divide trade to a small extent into retail trade, trade in private offerings and remote trade. Under the store in the place of sale would also be a store that takes place in fixed facilities, such as shops and boxing, but also one that is carried out with portable facilities, such as kiosks, gigs and automatics. As regards distance trade, i.e. by means of means of distance communication, its regulation in the proposed Trade Act is given special attention. The aim of the detailed arrangement was to protect consumers, who, due to physical distance, have no direct insight into the subject of purchase and offer of traders. The paper is also the establishment of specific market institutions. The law foresees and clearly defines what specific market institutions can exist and divides them into a stock market, a trade fair and traditional manifestations, markets, wholesale markets and auction houses. The proposal for a trade law provides that not all goods and services can be sold on traditional events, but only those goods and services which are the subject and purpose of their organisation. Major changes to the new legal provisions are also proposed in the area of selling prices. First, to protect consumers will not be enough to highlight only the prices, units of the measures in which the goods are already in place, but it will be necessary to point out what price would be if the goods were sold in other units of the measure, which makes the price comparable. Secondly, the price of goods sold and services provided by electronic means no longer must be highlighted in the dinar currency, but can also be highlighted in foreign currency. The paper is also a low-priced sales arrangement, and precisely determines that it can be carried out in the form of sales, action sales or seasonal reductions. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Trade contains significantly less novelty than the Proposal for a Law on Trade. The changes primarily relate to the precision of the already existing legal text formulations, as well as the clarification of the already existing definitions, such as the definition of users and service providers, as well as commercial messages, and the definition of electronic communications operators has been introduced. In addition to the need for modernisation, all of these changes were necessary in order to increase legal certainty. It is known that the internet is very susceptible to the development of the grey economy although the size of the grey economy in Serbia has decreased in the previous year, it accounts for around 15% of GDP. In order to further reduce the percentage in 2019, inspectors will have another tool to fight the grey economy, by introducing a hidden purchase institute. From 2015 to 2018, the number of people who bought online is about 50% higher and is moving around 2 million. Hoping that the proposed laws will facilitate and increase the legal certainty of Serbian citizens in buying, in the voting day I will support these laws, as well as members of my SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58193	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58194	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have three laws on the agenda that are moving forward with trends in the world, three laws that will allow for the modernisation of the trade sector, which will also help Serbia to be a more modern country. I will specifically talk about the proposal for a law on trade. It's a whole new law that was made in close cooperation with the economy. In the draft law, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce participated, representatives of the National Alliance for Local and Economic Development, as well as informal groups of information society service providers. The adoption of a completely new law has conditioned an accelerated development of electronic trade in Serbia. According to the data available from 2018, 1.8 million Serbian citizens bought goods and services online, and if we compare that data to the 2015 data, we conclude that 50% of citizens were doing more online shopping. In order to allow Serbia to move forward with time and further develop online shopping, the new law on trade details electronic trade. For the first time, concepts such as "electronic store", "electronic platform", and a number of other terms are defined. This law also defines specific measures to curb the grey economy by giving inspectors special powers and the possibility to carry out so-called "silent economy". A covert purchase, if they suspect the store isn't registered. This is more detailedly regulated by a member of this 50th law. The fact is that the Internet as a modern means of communication is a major problem for supervisory authorities, and the fact is that a large part of the gray economy is carried out online, so it is expected to reduce the size of the grey economy, precisely because of new powers authorised by inspectors through Article 50. The proposal for a trade law puts customers in a better position, because customers will be more protected and much less confused when buying, because the law clearly defines the forms of reductions, clearly defines what sales are, clearly defines what is seasonal downsizing, and what is action sales, and this is all explained in detail through Article 37 of the Law. Article 38 defines advertising of sales incentives, so that the law prohibits advertising of incentives for goods in such small quantities, that it is clear at first sight that the aim of the seller is to somehow lead the buyer to enter the facility and buy some other goods. As far as advertising percentages are concerned, all of us as buyers, all Serbian citizens have been led astray for at least once in their lives, when we walk and when we see that there is a percentage of "Sales 30%, 50% or 70" on a particular store. This will be prohibited by this law, because the law defines that if a percentage of the discount is on the window, one-fifth of the products in the total producer range must be reduced in such a store. Also, the law prohibits advertising sales or apparent reductions if the earlier price is not true, the customer must know the right price, i.e. the value of the real product. All this I have stated will allow customers, i.e. Serbian citizens as buyers, to be in a better position by adopting the Law on Trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58195	Thank you, colleague Pesic. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58196	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda of three laws that will significantly improve trade in Serbia. Trade is certainly one of the oldest business activities. Since there's been a civilization, it's been traded. Trade determines not only business activity, but social relations as well. As trade was changing, so was the arrangement of society. This is why trade is more important than normal economic activity. Trade is, of course, economic activity, but it's also culture, social policy, human relations. It's all a trade in broad meaning. When we change trade laws and regulate new rules, we actually do the modernization of society, we edit it, we introduce new principles and new rules that have produced significant results everywhere in the world and improved it. Of course, Serbian consumers with open arms will accept the changes in these laws, which will make the trade process itself even simpler, more competitive and with greater insurance for the benefit of citizens. The trade is connected to freedom and the right to choose. It does not suffer too much legal regulation, but we must not go into another extreme, not to stifle the new and creative forms of trade that will appear in the future. Trade growth in Serbia is only due to the growth of gross domestic product and the overall growth and development of society and economy. That is why trade growth and today's normative regulation of trade are the result of economic reforms made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58197	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58198	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, the Proposal for a Law on Trade has introduced significant changes, from the conditions for carrying out trade and classification on the internal market, legal frameworks for improving trade in order to promote trade equality, to reform inspection controls. As an important change, I would point out that organizers of different manifestations will have an obligation to highlight the name, the length of the event, to mark the space, keep records of exhibitors or sellers of goods, etc. Of course, the reasons for these changes in the law are great abuses that are present in practice. Such manifestations need to sell goods that are in accordance with the practices related to the event and the area and should be legal, i.e. to satisfy all regulations. Sales are also covered, as are seasonal and action reductions, i.e. a reduction period, in order to avoid the same goods being sold at lower prices and somewhere at regular prices. As mentioned earlier, the seasonal decline is foreseen after the season and no more than twice a year, as well as in the case of ten EU countries, where winter and summer reductions exist long ago. Growth in Internet trade is in expansion. In 2018, millions and 800,000 consumers in Serbia bought goods online, up to 130 thousand more than a year earlier. One of the easiest and most popular ways to enter entrepreneurship is e-commerce. In 2017, 407 companies were registered in Serbia to conduct trade through mail, the internet and their traffic accounted for around 0.67% of total retail traffic. The proposal for a trade law will also regulate internet sales. This is crucial because it directly affects the strengthening of the entrepreneurial culture in our country. The old law implies that all the conditions that exist for physical stores must be applied to e-traders, while the new law explicitly recognises that persons as such kind of trader do not have to have neither a physical store nor a warehouse at any time, as in the case of dropping. It also increased the number of paid purchases and services transactions via the Internet. An increase of over two million and 700,000 transactions in 2015 to more than 10 million recorded in 2018 is recorded. Given that a large part of the gray economy is being carried out online, the paper represents the introduction of the inspector's authority to make a hidden purchase, which makes it more effective to detect illegal trade, suppress the gray economy and prevent unfair competition. The difference between e-commerce intended for the domestic market and those intended for the foreign market has been established. Also, a mechanism is being introduced to remove illicit content on the Internet. So, overall, this bill respected all the necessary criteria of a successful law, especially given that 19% of the total number of employees in Serbia work in trade and its share in GDP is about 10%. Modernisation and development of the trade sector, and in particular retail sector, have a direct and indirect impact on economic growth. Speaking of trade and judging by who has made economic progress in this country, it's Jeremic and Gilas, and it's exactly when they've run the country together. That is why the Alliance for Serbia is an attempt to return power and try to re-control state resources. Citizens remember a great merchant, a true wizard, then a powerful Dragan Gilas. I will remind myself of the purchase of trams and buses, because 200 buses were bought, 275,000 euros were paid by bus, I will point out, by bus, instead of giving 150 000 euros to our domestic, for example, Icarbus, so 125,000 euros per bus went into his pocket. And then that same man talks in Serbia about poverty. The Serbian Progressive Party then managed to force the city's power at a session of the city's Assembly to obtain a number of buses from domestic producers and thus reduce damage. Gilas's Serbian firms had an annual income of over 80m euros. Uncontrollable privatisations were so high that half a million Serbian citizens were out of work. The gross domestic product was minus 3.1 and the public debt was almost 80%. There are numerous malfeasances and abuses of state money associated with Vuk Jeremic, including the signing of a contract with the Energy Project, which has damaged Serbia by more than 5.2m euros. For five years as foreign minister, Jeremic spent more than 3.6m euros on travel from the Republika Srpska budget. These costs were more per year than all travel expenses of the entire foreign ministry cost. Jeremic also took 55,000 euros for himself on behalf of the diaries and thus doubled the total amount of his five-year salary. Jeremic entrusted the dealings with the purchase of airline tickets to the related company Aeroklub without a written contract and without carrying out the procurement process. In 2011, payments totalling around 300,000 euros were made for the Aeroklub company, which was mainly obtained by the ministry. In the same period, Aeroklub signed a contract for the purchase of airline tickets and for the needs of the tennis union of Serbia, also worth about 300,000 euros, which was almost identical to the amount it received from the foreign ministry. It is little known that during Boris Tadic, Serbia paid just over $2.3m to US consulting firms for promotion services and improved Serbia's image allegedly in the US. Of course, it was for improving and creating the image of the then head of diplomacy, Vuk Jeremic. Serbia faces a major problem today due to the introduction of taxis in Pristina. The damage at the daily level is about 1.1m euros, with 228m euros less goods from central Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija than in the same period last year. It is a move not introduced for economic reasons, but for political reasons. Eight months have passed since the introduction of a 100% taxi onto the sprawl. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic represents our country in the best possible way, so he has raised our reputation in the world, that more and more investors who see our country as an investment-friendly environment. We have the government, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is seriously planning the future and is working for a better life in Serbia. A number of trade agreements have been signed to create favourable conditions that guarantee the improvement of economic and commercial co-operation with signatories countries. Serbia's market is the most important in the region and there are conditions for its further growth with a 50% growth forecast in the coming years. In order to ensure conditions for Serbia to become a member of the World Trade Organisation and to ensure greater access to the EU market, it is aimed at strengthening the market surveillance system. This means that it is working to increase the safety of products coming from Serbia. Last year, at this time, the National Assembly hosted a high-level Parliamentary Conference, organised by the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, whose member I am, and the World Trade Organisation. Serbia is in the process of joining the World Trade Organisation, and in negotiations with the EU, we have opened Chapter 30, which concerns economic relations with other countries. This government has done 10 times as much as others. He's running a responsible policy. Thousands of new jobs have been opened and public debt has fallen below 51% and a further drop is expected. Pensions and wages are increasing and there is improvement and progress in every sphere of society. That's why I think these laws are a big step towards progress, and they're going to open the door for a better and better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58199	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Natasha St. Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58200	Thank you, Chairman. Respected ministry associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, cannot start a discussion on today's subject without referring to the importance of visiting French President Makron, at the invitation of President Vukic, who came to Serbia after 18 years, because Aleksandar Vukic is a leader who leaves no problems aside and is not afraid to take responsibility and speak in the language of wisdom when everyone else is silent, corrects everything that others have tried to corrupt on our behalf, and against our interests. Serbia is restoring the reputation it deserves, which shows also the visit of large statesmen over the past five years, and has been a special impression made by President Makron, showing respect for the Serb people. What was ordered yesterday from Calemegdan is that we have to stop accusing each other and begin to create a vision of an advanced and modern society. Our only chance is to gather around what can bring improvement and progress. But it's not a simple and easy task. But it's the only way. As far as eGovernment law is concerned, modern society is seeking globalisation and integration and is in line with this law. We bring Serbia closer to the world and we draw the world closer to us. Online shopping and platforms are much more popular than last year, which speaks of the strong competition that domestic internet stores have. The volume of electronic trade in Serbia is increasing year by year. Last year, for example, it was $317m, and this year it is expected to reach 354m. The expected growth rate is 9.6%, so the amount projected in 2023 could be $510m. According to ministry data, about 44.5% of internet users in Serbia have never bought online, probably because they believe that electronic trade is not safe. There are about 43% of consumers who have doubts about e-commerce, because they are afraid that they will get the wrong product and the biggest obstacle to further development in this sector cite lack of education, both the seller and the consumer. Specially regulates the emphasis on prices in e-commerce. The difference between e-commerce was established for domestic and foreign markets, and special measures were introduced to curb the grey economy. About three-quarters of the company offers online sales and needs to convince consumers that the law protects them. It also takes work to control the application of the law, in order to increase awareness of the benefits this trade has. Here is a very important rapid reaction and respect for deadlines. Where the product is to be replaced, it shall be carried out within the specified time limit. The same goes for the deadlines. It is necessary to shorten the procedure and have greater control over both bidders and shops by the ministry and to form a list of sellers with the biggest complaints that will be transparent to everyone. In this way, a list of sellers will be created and customers will have better shopping guidelines. The Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has prepared an action plan for the development of e-commerce within the USID-led e-commerce project, which promotes the integration of businessmen who have recognised in this area not only the chance to improve their own business but also the chance of Serbia's overall economic growth in connecting to regional and international markets. So far, this area has not been regulated, and more and more is being used. Research also shows that most often clothes are purchased online in Serbia, then technical devices, tourist arrangements and sports equipment are booked. The average basket value is between 1,000 and 5,000 dinars. The change in regulation is necessary to further improve electronic trade in Serbia, which has huge potential. And this change will allow the electronic trade market to develop rapidly. The goal is to achieve a level of quality of products at global level and to compete our producers under equal conditions with other manufacturers and sellers from the world, all in order to make it faster and easier to trade and greater customer satisfaction at price and quality. This also means curbing the grey economy in order to better fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58201	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58202	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, today when we talk about the proposal for a law on trade and a bill on commodity markets and a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade, I have in mind raspberries, coolants, in my mind a video of an unfortunate peasant cutting his orchard trees with a motor saw and a lot of similar examples. The problems facing manufacturers are how to sell their products at an adequate price, how to charge their work and costs. At the same time, problems that plague consumers, i.e. Buyers, are how to meet their needs at the lowest price. Among them are traders with their problems to meet both manufacturers and consumers. As I think about those raspberries and fruit producers, I remember that in central Serbia, which is usually a fruit region, there were fruit-processing companies, such as "Capcanka" from Sapac, "Red Star" from Kragujevac, "Serbian" from Valjev, "Borac" from Petrovac to Mlava, "Budimka" from Požega. At that time, farmers placed much of their products through them, and the rest went to markets or to export, when they were talking about fresh fruit. However, privatisation also destroyed processing systems, which is why domestic producers are in great trouble. It often happens that a good part of these products cannot be placed freshly as first class, but as fourth or fifth class, which had previously been processed in large systems. Let's remind ourselves who made that privatisation, that criminal privatisation. Who destroyed “Serbianka” from Valjev, “Saphanka” from Šapac, “Red Star” from Kragujevac, “Buda” from Požega, “Borac” from Petrovac to Mlava, etc.? It's those who today are angry opponents of all the success these authorities achieve. Trade is an independent business activity dealing with the traffic of goods, intermediation between producers and consumers and whether or not the commercial companies are the owners of the goods they distribute. Trade is not the only participant of goods traffic, both producers and consumers are next to it. However, there are no good and bad guys like in some Western movies, but everyone protects their interests. The store is tasked with providing goods to the right users, at the right time, in the right place, at an acceptable price and in the right amount. It enables manufacturers or facilitates sales, and provides consumers with the satisfaction of needs. Trade is the art of trading goods into money. Trade is an art of meeting the needs of both sides and manufacturers and consumers. However, trade also performs a number of additional functions, such as the expedition of goods, transport, storage and goods, storage, sorting, processing, packaging, increasing the value of the goods, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, as someone who is domestically and responsibly dealing with all problems, wants to introduce order in this area and create conditions for eliminating the grey economy and improving the business of all stakeholders of goods transport and manufacturers and consumers, as well as traders. That's why I'm asking you to adopt the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58203	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58204	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I'm going to talk about the proposal for a law on trade. Today with pride and full heart, I can talk about trade, and I would be ashamed to say anything in 2012. Why? Because today the average salary is 460 euros and, people, the consumer basket is much higher, so people can afford, perhaps not much, not world brands, but they can afford basic living conditions, and in 2012 absolutely nothing. With 330 euros nothing, with 16,000 minions absolutely nothing. The minimum today is almost twice as big, 27,200 dinars, I'm sure, in a few months much more. When we talk about electronic trade, it is very important to stress that for the Republic of Serbia it is of paramount importance. It is a great potential not only for Serbia, but if we introduce it, we are getting on that train heading towards Europe, we will be a developed country. If not, we're on the seal. Thank God, we got into this and we have GDP today, which means economic development, plus 4.5. And in 2012, minus 3.1. There's no development, there's nothing. Why am I telling you this? Because it is very important, because with digitisation Serbia will be powerful, will be modern, will be developed. It's very important for the digitization of complete society. That is why the Ministry of Tourism, Telecommunications, first of all, trade, but USAID also created a joint project that deals with strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as restoring consumer confidence. About 60 percent did electronic trade, mostly young people. There may be as many as 1.8 million of them, which is good. The older population somehow has no confidence in this and just based on these educations, these projects will have a significant shift, because it's very important, first of all, because of pay traffic. We achieved in 2017 payment turnover worth $317 million. This year is forecasting 9% higher, which will be approximately 350 million. Very good for the Republic of Serbia. What's the paper on this? The papers are two institutes. First of all, the Institute of Hidden Shopping or the Mysteries of Chopper, which gives authority to the Inspector that if he suspects anything, he can collect evidence and process it. What else is the paper? The concepts of electronic stores. What does that mean? This means that from the manufacturer will come directly to the buyer, we shorten the procedure, much less money goes to the intermediary, or to the store. Today, around 19% of the total number of employees is working in the store, and the share of GDP trade is moving around about 10%. What else is very valid for this law? He also withdraws the amendment of some other laws – the inspection control Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act. I hope that the Republic of Serbia, whose priority is just digitisation... We have an e-government in Parliament right now, everything is transparent, everything is visible, we have electronic trade now. Thanks to the eGovernment, said Honorable colleague Orlic, we were once on Duing Business List 179, we get documentation, or documents all the more important to open the company, in four to five days. That's how it works. That's how the responsible government works. I'm sure Serbia will keep up with digitisation. I, like all my colleagues, will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58205	The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58206	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, honourable MPs, trade is an economic activity which represents a set of business activities related to the purchase and sale of goods, as well as the provision of services with a view to obtaining profits. Market and trade developments have a direct and indirect effect on other economic sectors. Modernisation and progress of trade can help develop industry and agriculture. In order to exercise competence, precise data on trade and the trade network are necessary. Although one part of the data can be provided, some important data are not collected, and they are significant from the aspect of trade policy management. That is why data is needed on the trade network of the Republic of Serbia to the level of a sales facility in the depths. They are necessary for the need to manage trade and its planning on the territory of the entire country. The data obtained shall be made available at the request of the national authorities for the purpose of developing economic policy by filling out forms sent by electronic means. It should encourage the development of small companies and entrepreneurs. Improving the legal framework is important for the sake of legal certainty. The essence of the law is to ensure a stable and supplied market with as little State interference as possible. The objective is a more efficient market economy. The law on trade will regulate all traffic, procurement and sales and thus reduce the level of the grey economy. One of the forms of the store is the electronics store. The Internet is a modern means of communication. However, much of the gray economy is carried out online. The paper in this part of the law is the introduction of the inspector's authority to conduct a covert purchase. In transparent business conditions, we will allow the arrival of new international trade chains. For new companies to arrive, it is necessary to provide easy access, fair and equal conditions of business. With this law, our area will be suitable ground for developing new forms of business. If we want to strengthen entrepreneurship culture, electronic trade seems to be one of the easier ways to enter entrepreneurship. In this way, through the personal website of the store or electronic platform, services are provided to connect end customers to the manufacturer or supplier. That kind of trader doesn't have to have a physical store, not a warehouse, not even to have the goods in his own possession for a single moment. This is a modern law that is in line with trends in the world, where everything becomes digital. The new law on trade accurately defines a period of seasonal reductions of up to twice a year. Winter and summer reductions of 60 days will thus be avoided that at the same time the same goods are sold at lower prices in one store and in another at regular prices. When it comes to sales, a regular and reduced price must be pointed out, but also that physical goods are set aside which are not on sale, reducing special practice will be considered as goods that have had one price for just a few days, and then reportedly decreased. Customers will feel the effects, because they'll be able to buy what they need on the discount. The rules governing the market should be such as to allow easy access to the market and fair equal operating conditions. The government of the Republic of Serbia with President Aleksandar Vukic has worked hard to create new jobs and develop trade, economy and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58207	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58208	Thank you. The chairman, I will be very brief due to the limited time of the parliamentary group. Every time we discuss a bill, we must keep in mind what benefits the citizens will have from these laws and we are from the minister but also from other participants in today's debate heard all the reasons why we should adopt these bill proposals. I am primarily referring to the Law on Trade and when it comes to the development of electronic trade in Serbia and when it comes to the modernisation of the retail sector and when it comes to many other newspapers that this law adopts. If we take into account what a former colleague Malusic said in the trade sector, almost 20% of the total number of employees in Serbia, then it is clear how important this proposal is for citizens' laws. What I think is very important, is that we introduce binding standards and particularly control in this area, so that we don't have someone like Dragan Gilas making millions of dollars trading seconds, reselling seconds and minutes of advertising space on television, and then when someone announces an investigation of when someone announces an investigation into a dubious buy-out of minutes on television shows on RTS, then the whole hysteria and campaign against the one who announced the investigation begins. In this case, it's about Nebojsa Stefanovic, and it's about to bring up the inventions immediately, it's about to make up the affair, it's about the whole campaign, and then it's about Gilas and Solak's media "N1" and everyone else, and then for days we're suffering hysteria in the media space, and all of this to avoid the answer to the question – how did you get your friend as much millions? How did you make that kind of money, if we know that he earned 74,000 euros in the Czech Republic, and today there are 25 million euros, the logical question is being imposed from where, how? He kept avoiding giving us the answer to that question and how he used to trade for seconds and minutes, so today he buys parties. He bought a party, this party where the president, it was some kind of Green Party, then Gilas came and bought it, what to torture? He may have bought that party electronically, what to build committees, what to build a party infrastructure, what to visit Serbia, here are lawmakers who have long been involved in politics who know what I'm talking about, how hard work it is. There comes a nice man and buys almost him and that Wolf Jeremy. And Vuk Jeremic also almost came and bought a party from that, not now, the MP here in the Assembly, Alexic the one from Triestenik. We see that he is also preparing these days for that unfortunate man from Šapca Zelenovic, also mentioned by his colleague, Knezevic, who prepares him for the president of the DS, and the DS who also bought something a little earlier. You have to understand, Gilas simply doesn't like competition. He never loved her. He always loved the monopoly and got rich with the monopoly. That's why I hope that these laws and I end up making these phenomena impossible in the future. For all these reasons, I would like to invite us to adopt this proposed legal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58209	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević. Here you go. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58210	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, we are all witnessing the rapid development of technology, information society. What happened ten or twenty years ago was a bogey for most of our citizens, today became part of our daily activities. The development of the information society has also imposed some new rules, so today we are also considering the proposal for a law on trade, as well as the amendment and addition of the Law on Electronic Trade. The accelerated development of electronic trade in our country, as well as the modernisation of the retail sector, conditioned that the Law on Trade must also undergo significant changes and adapt to a new way of trade and business. In this way we continue to adapt our legal frameworks, in trade with the EU e-commerce directive. The need for changes and additions of existing legal solutions has also been affected by the accelerated growth of electronic trade, E trade has reached $317m in the past year, and forecasts are that this year it will transfer $350m. The importance of the trade sector suggests that this sector employs about 20% of the total number of employees in Serbia and the share that has trade in GDP is about 10%. We have good legal solutions ahead of us, and I will look back at just a few items that have attracted my attention. One of the important newspapers in the Law on Electronic Trade is the introduction of a mechanism to remove illicit and illegal content from the Internet. This specifically means that the competent authorities will be able to issue an act requiring the provider of information society services, i.e. Internet site owners to remove unsuitable content under the threat of criminal sanctions. In this way a word is introduced in this area, and internet users are protected, especially children from various dangers. The promotion and development of e-commerce has conditioned the introduction of the Institute of Hidden Trade, i.e. purchases giving authority to the inspector that in the event of a reasonable suspicion that trade is not registered, to make purchases for the purpose of obtaining evidence for further treatment. This provision directly affects the reduction of the grey economy and the return of trade to legal flows. What makes me particularly happy in the new legal solution is the provision to edit the area of sending commercial messages in the form of SMS and e-mail messages. This type of promotion of goods and services will be possible only with the prior consent of the consumer to whom such a message is intended. Given that the proposed legislative solutions are good and good and quality and that they improve the trade sector, as well as that they are in line with modern trends in society, in the voting day they will have my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58211	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58212	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, here on the agenda today we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade, a draft law on commodity exchanges, a proposal for a law on trade. Serbia monitors modern flows. In this regard, we can also talk about the accelerated development of electronic trade. Only last year, nearly two million people in Serbia bought goods via the internet and thus achieved a turnover of about $320m. This year's expected traffic is over $350 million. You will agree that we have accepted the modernization that brings new times. Very often we buy our own things on the Internet, and it is absolutely necessary to pass laws and to standardize the specific relationships that arise. We are often witnessing problems arising from online purchases, whether because we do not understand something at the moment or because something is not defined properly, therefore provisions are necessary to regulate electronic trade in more detail. This means that there will be fewer abuses, fewer errors in buying, insecure purchases or misleading customers, in the matter of pay or the characteristics of goods. Very often we get confused when we buy something online, whether we should leave the card number or not, or we get confused when it comes to the characteristics of goods that can be different. What I would point out is a new division of retail trade, which will allow for more effective control and fight against the gray economy. The trade sector is very important in Serbia, it employs almost 20% of employees, and e-commerce makes a significant part. As a result, there will be the possibility of setting incentives, aimed at developing e-commerce and curbing the grey economy. In the spirit of visiting French President McCron, we can talk about business co-operation between Serbia and France, trade and trade. There are more than 400 active businesses in Serbia, whose majority are owners of the company and citizens of France. Most of them are from the trading sector to large and small. We also often organize forums, various business forums, which gather companies and businessmen from France to present the potential of investment in Serbia. It's an opportunity for our local companies to meet potential partners from France. Yesterday, for example, 22 agreements between Serbia and France were signed in various areas, in the fields of sport, culture, defence, science, education, etc. In this respect, the security of business that Serbia is now providing to partners from abroad is very important. Thus, the Stock Exchanges Act will create good grounds for developing the stock market, with greater trade security. In the future, all the participants in the transactions will have to make guarantees, which will allow foreign companies to participate. This will create a basis for increasing Serbia's exports and positioning as a regional centre for trade. In view of all this, because of the government's intention and endurance to trade without risk in Serbia, with greater legal certainty and with detailed business, I will support the proposals of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58213	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58214	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic. Representatives of the ministry, respected citizens of Serbia, when we talk about trade as a business activity, and we know that trade regulates the entire traffic of one country, along with all the newspapers that appear in this activity, it is clear that legal solutions must be monitored by certain changes that arise in the functioning of the market. Practice has shown that it is necessary to make normative concreteisation of the trade strategy. The most important newspaper in the law is that new systems have been developed. The law introduces a new division of retail trade, thus different trade in a retail place, trade in personal supply and distance trade, which includes electronic trade and other remote trade through other means. So internet sales are more detailed. The forms of electronic trade have been defined as the most represented models of business on the digital market, and are particularly defined by electronic stores, electronic platforms and so on. ‘crop shipping’ form of electronic trade, where goods are delivered directly to the consumer from the manufacturer’s warehouse. As far as e-commerce is concerned, this type of trade has already been largely represented by us, with this market so far being suitable for the development of the grey economy and the creation of unfair competition, so this law will introduce greater efficiency in the repression of both grey economies and the repression of unfair competition. The introduction of the power of inspectors to conduct a covert purchase and thus control the respect of this law. Members of the 36-38 law refer to the regulation of sales procedures and advertising of sales of goods with sales incentives. These members are particularly important in order to protect consumers. In fact, so far it has not been defined what the sale is, what the action is, and what the reduction is. In this way, customers were often deceived and led astray, as merchants used the wrong terms to inform customers, and customers made decisions that would otherwise not be made to buy. Now it will be clear whether it is a seasonal downturn, a stock sale or a sale that implies that it is a commodity that will no longer be sold by that trader and that the prices are lower. There are still amendments to this law, for a short time, I have highlighted those that have seemed most important to me, but in any case, I will support the adoption of this one, as well as the other laws in this set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58215	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58216	Thank you, Chairman. The fact is that trade has a big and direct impact on all areas of the economy, and above all it is about retailing, which is also the most important part of trade, is also a direct link between manufacturers and consumers. However, what is important here is to make a connection and to even talk about the volume, i.e. the number and the manufacturer, as well as to speak first of all about consumer purchasing power. Because talking about trade, retail, legislation, any legislation in this area is unnecessary if you have such a condition that the number of producers is small and that consumers are in such a situation that their purchasing power is small or zero. We remember that period sometime by 2012, you will admit the general state of trade, but also the general state of the economy, when probably because of this one general state of economy, such and similar legal solutions were not even necessary. However, since 2012, the situation has been slowly but certainly changing in another direction. In the northern province, this situation has changed dramatically only since 2016, and you will admit it is also related to investments in infrastructure, the opening of some new production plants at that time and thus increasing the number of jobs in the province. What is certain is that such a development will affect the purchasing power of the population and the direct impact on trade. I can testify to all of this on the case of the city of Subotica. Subotica is one of the few cities that has since 2016 an external trade deficit and it ranges from 7 to 10%, depending on the year. This is the most contributed by exports that mainly go from a free zone that is once again open to the state's efforts with the president and the mayor's efforts and local self-government. In fact, the share of exports from the free zone to Subotica is about 60% in total exports from the city of Subotica, but it certainly has its primary and secondary effects besides the part relating to the external trade surplus. It is, above all, an increase, these primary effects are, above all, an increase in the number of employees and an increase in earnings and ultimately as the primary effect of increasing the purchasing power of the population. It is precisely these phenomena that lead to the need to align these modern legal solutions that will regulate the area of trade and continue to develop the economy in Serbia. With this in mind, respected ministers, as long as you and the president insist on the job of opening production plants in Serbia, increasing the number of jobs, increasing earnings in the Republic of Serbia, do not doubt that you will also have a good ally in Parliament and in us as well as in other similar laws, not only for these legal proposals that we are talking about today, but also for other similar laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58217	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Markovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58218	Thank you. First of all, I would like to present the information that is in favour of the adoption of new legal solutions in the field of electronic trade. In Serbia, 80% of the trade takes place in a classic way. Although 73% of our citizens use the Internet, only 30.9% use electronics. It's a huge shift compared to 2011, when there were only 18%. Although Internet trade is recording growth, it is still not sufficiently developed, and there is obviously a need for precise regulatory electronic trade that would follow the modern way of life, but also the development of new technologies. According to the International Index of the Digital Economy of Society, Serbia managed to jump to 34th place from 45th in 2013. In the European Union, around $800 is generated by internet users, and in Serbia, as many as 10 times less. The biggest challenge for strengthening electronic trade is to increase citizens' confidence in this kind of trade. A number of analyses carried out in this area have shown that one of the biggest barriers to the development of electronic trade is a large share of the grey economy, as much of the gray economy is currently online. This bill introduces the authority of an inspector who has the right to conduct a covert purchase. It is an inspection method that knows the European administrative and inspection space. The motive for introducing this type of control is greater efficiency in detecting illegal trade, curbing the grey economy and preventing unfair competition. A mechanism for removing illicit and illegal content from the Internet is also being introduced. This prevents consumers from being led astray, since often terms that have not adequately provided product information have been used. It is also prescribed to contain a notice relating to the sales incentive. The most important thing is that decisive information is transparent, so that the consumer gets accurate information. The proposal for a trade law defines the basic forms of reduction, action sales, seasonal reductions and sales, and for each of them there are rules. The reduction definition was based on an analysis of the parallel practice of the Member States of the European Union. This practice exists in 10 Member States of the European Union and this is also one of the ways in which consumers are protected. The main objective of the adoption of the Law on Trade and Change and the addition of the Law on Electronic Trade is, above all, consumer security, as it reduces the possibility of fraud, the incentive of this kind of purchase, by restoring trust, much more stringent controls than it has ever been before. Of course, I believe that such legal solutions should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58219	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58220	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, a set of laws we are discussing today are related to trade and will contribute to the approximation of our market to European and world standards, and this will affect the rapid development of our digital economy and society. A unique Serbia believes that the regulation of the trade sector is necessary due to continued modernisation and development, especially the retail sector, given that 19% of the total number of employees work in trade and its share in GDP is about 10%. The proposed law on trade has a lot of changes to the current law, which is quite old. He introduced new concepts that did not exist in the current law and improved existing terminology and definitions aimed at reducing legal uncertainty due to uncertainty and uncertainty. The proposal for a Law on Trade will regulate internet sales, given that it has an increasing share in total retail traffic. In Serbia, around 30.9% of people used electronic trade last year created a basis for Serbia to jump to 34th place from 45th place after the International Digital Economy Index, ahead of many countries in the environment. How important it is to monitor modernisation and digitisation and not to miss a step with other countries, it is estimated that by 2030, even about 85% of businesses will be taking the form of electronic trade. I think the biggest obstacle to the rapid development of electronic trade is the lack of education both for the seller and for the consumer. Research has shown that the biggest enemy is ignorance and insufficient information primarily from consumers, as well as from traders about the possibilities of electronic trade. This means that it is necessary to increase citizens' awareness of the advantages of electronic trade and build trust. The existing e-commerce law is quite good and it is in line with the European Union directive, so that the amendments are minimal, as regards regulatory harmonisation in the light of Serbia's accession to the European Union. Electronic trade is much more than a simple way for consumers to make purchases and sales, it is an important driver for economic development, especially the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The best example of the advantage e-commerce brings is China, where a third of the retailing refers to electronic trade. Pure data works, Chinese giant Alibaba, as the most famous electronic store, traffics more than $30 billion in just 24 hours. The proposal for a law on trade established the difference between electronic trade intended for the domestic market and electronic purchases intended for the foreign market. Also, special measures have been introduced to curb the gray economy. Speaking of the Law on Trade, I would also like to look back on the visit of the French President and the trade co-operation our country has with France, and it is being looked at that for the first five months of this year, the trade in goods with France amounted to over 500 million dollars and that in the last year some 4,600 companies were operating on the French market. These are encouraging data both for the Serbian economy, knowing that France is a market with nearly 67 million inhabitants and for Serbian trade and that the agreements signed yesterday will contribute to the trade with France in the coming years. The daily work of our government aims to make Serbia a leader in the region and attract as many foreign investors as possible with its stable economic policy, to be an open and favourable market. We can note that in recent years, the number of investors in Serbia has increased, and that is certainly what President Vukic is responsible for, by taking serious state policy, but we also have good examples where individuals have managed to bring investors in with their efforts. We have an example of Jagodina, where in the last few years there have been as many as eight investors. I don't think I've come out of the picture when I'm talking about the importance of bringing in investors, because this enables the employment of our citizens, which contributes to increasing standards and their purchasing power, is ultimately reflected in trade itself. All proposed laws are modern and are in line with the fact that Serbia should enter the European Union, monitor trends in a world where everything becomes digital. For Unique Serbia, it is important that laws recognise modern forms of business and entrepreneurship, which encourages people to think and increasingly use all the available types of electronic trade. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58221	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58222	Thank you. We have three laws in the area of trade, tourism and telecommunications before us. Of course, the Serbian Progressive Party in the voting day will support all three laws, because they are in the interest of both producers, but also in the interest of consumers. I will look back here at a particular segment of these laws, which is to protect particularly vulnerable and vulnerable groups, especially children and minors. I must point out that this government, since the departure of the SNS and how it takes care of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, about the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, about peace, security and development of the Republic of Serbia, on the better standard of living of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but also puts a special accent on the protection of particularly sensitive, especially vulnerable groups. In that sense, I would especially like to emphasise the importance of the Law on Electronic Trade, where, as a newspaper, the removal of inaccessible content from the Internet is introduced. I must say that the Internet can pose a very dangerous safety zone when it comes to children and minors, and that often using the Internet can put basic human rights at risk sometimes, and when it comes to children, they can be exposed in the strictest possible way to various pornographic content on their website and various types of abuse and neglect. What I must stress is that for the first time this mechanism is introduced in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade. Also, I must point out that the National Contact Centre for the Safety of Children not the Internet is open, and only in the last year were 7,000 applications, when it comes to abuse of children on the Internet. Also, I must point out that out of those 7,000 charges, 155 criminal charges have been filed. I must point out that the government is very responsible for approaching this problem, so a deadline for emergency handling of the competent authorities is set, and that deadline is two days. Legal sanctions for non-treatment and legal persons are also provided for up to a million and a half dinars, and for entrepreneurs up to 300,000 dinars. What I must also point out is that protecting against inaccessible content on the Internet is one among the resolution issues, that both here and here except the Ministry of Trade and that the Ministry of Labour, martial arts and social affairs is involved, when it comes to protecting children on the Internet, yes and here, and that the Ministry of Interior is involved, and I must stress that in June this year, the Ministry of Interior received equipment in the form of gifts from the Norwegian Embassy worth 900,000 euros, which is in fact the purchase of equipment for the National Crimes Centre for the detection and analysis of content on the Internet, which relates to the prevention of crime and corruption. So it's the coordinated activity of several different ministries, and also the coordinated activity of both courts and prosecutors, because only in coordinated activities can we protect children in the best and most efficient way on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58223	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58224	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has been initiated by the accelerated process of electronic modernisation in the Republic of Serbia, which is an integral part of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the engine of the momentum, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia has been accelerated, our esteemed president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. This law also contributes to curbing the gray economy. The trade sector is a very important element of our country's overall economy, it is also very important in terms of overall employment in the Republic of Serbia, as the trade sector employs one-fifth of the total employment of the Republic of Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the former regime has not taken care of the promotion of trade, but only of personal wealth, and their Minister of Trade Slobodan Milosavljevic, who has been arrested, as you know, as Minister of Trade and not only him, has been arrested by seven former government ministers and two ministerial assistants. These are: Slobodan Milosavljevic, Oliver Dulic, Jasna Matic, Sasa Dragin and Minister Bubalo and two assistants. As you can see, it was one group, so to tell the thieves and the frauds, who robbed robbery privatisation, devastated the economy and industry of our country's infrastructure and our country's overall potential. And, behold, here they are again, joined in some kind of Alliance for Serbia, there is again headed by one of the leaders, Dragan Gilas, in a people known as the Gicky Mafia. Why? Because he went into politics as a common golly, and he came out of politics as a mafia with 700m euros and that's why the people call him that. There is also his friend Vuk Jeremic, a wolf descendant, leader of an international gang of thieves and frauds, and not only him, there is Sergei Trifunovic, one of the leaders, as one of the leaders of the protests. What about him? What can I say? His colleague Biljana Srbljanović, I quote: unwashed and lying Sergei. That's the leader, he's always been a sneaky liar, he's always licked me, he's always been a gold medal in getting in your ass, he's always lied, he's always smelled, he's always scratched for money, he's never washed himself, he's always cheated on his colleagues, he's finished quote, 20.1.2019. There is a well-known academic Dusan Teodorovic called the "headquake". Why are they calling him? The people call him the earthquake because as soon as the name of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic is mentioned, he shakes his head with hatred. Next to him are the other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, Janko Veselinovic called Janko Stanocrat, who stole Milici Baci's apartment in Obrovac on the street of Brace Kurjakovic 9. There is also a cow killer Dusan Petrovic, and today someone was talking about livestock, and he ordered as agriculture minister to slaughter 250,000 cows from the total fund that the Republic of Serbia had. Dear ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia, not to mention them further, he best said about them, in the end, their DS Svetislav Bashar, who was an ambassador, he said, quote – The Democratic Party in all variants is a self-administrative community of mules and thieves, finished quote, Svetislav Bashar, 22 June, gentlemen 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58225	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or of someone else who has not used his right to do so in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word of the peoples is from Ambassador Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, not long ago, perhaps a year ago, a referendum was held in Switzerland, whether all citizens, just all citizens and richer and poorer, received 2500 Swiss francs a month from the state, something like 2,400 euros. It was a referendum and the Swiss refused. Why did they say no? Imagine I'm some kind of higher power and someone offering me ten billion on a gift. Ten billion on one hand, so they can spend, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can spend. On the other hand, someone is offering me a hard time bringing in investors and earning those ten billion euros. What would most Serbs choose? I believe they would choose the first thing to bow to them ten billion. I think those of the former regime's party would immediately take away from those ten, nine, maybe nine and nine hundred, because these were revenues from privatisation about 51 billion by the estimates of international organisations. That's what Serbs slowed down to eat social capital, literally eat it. It's like if the peasants ate the wheat seeds they'd sow, what would be wrong. I, as someone who lives on agricultural land, would choose between ten billion on a gift and ten billion in investment to work hard, to work hard. When the Spanish had a bunch of gold from Latin America and so on, they chose to buy everything. They got it as a gift, and when they bought it all, they ignored their craftsmanship and private activity. When the gold was gone, the earth was in ruins. We found such a mess because the gold was taken from the jars by those before us. It was no longer possible to live off the sale of capital and from borrowing, it had to be earned. Their product was long, our product should be production. Someone said this - making a profit is not a sin, it's a sin to make a loss. They're the ones out there today who didn't want McCrona texting to call, but they didn't realize, although there's a Wolf of the descendent of Jeremic there, that's not how it works in international politics, that's not how politics is made, not even money. It's a profile, and someone else said it -- an anlaser that drives the engine of one country's economic progress, and we have to stand up for it. In order for the market economy to succeed, Mr. Minister, advertising is also needed. Advertising oil that greases faster trade and profits. That's for sure. Now, let's see these media services and advertising services, let's see that everyone on our market is equal or some others are a little more equal. Since it is a trade to see the trade in media services and the unsurpassed Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, David Petreus, "Bi-Si Partners", the KKR and what is called all their investment funds. Imagine entering France, registering here fictitiously some media cable, electronic media, going to France and rent a studio and starting to produce a program in France, against the French government, French politics, along with French commercials that we do pirately and say – we are cross-border television. We re-transmit the program, we don't make it in France. I ask you, Mr. Minister, how long would we be free? How long would this re-emission take? Let me remind you, re-emissioning under the International Convention, which we signed in the Council of Europe, on cross-border television and our Law on Electronic Media, re-emissioning, at the same time broadcast in a country where it is based and in another country belonging to the Council of Europe. The TV "N1" and "New S" television, which belong to the United Group, or United media, do not re-air the programme. They come from Luxembourg, they claim first that they are the Slovenian channel, the Slovenian regulator, says – no, they are not our channel. They're Luxembourg canals. Do you think Olja Bećkovic is re-emitting a programme from Luxembourg and Ivan Ivanovic? In order for the trade in media services to be fair, everyone has to be equal on this market. However, the Schools and Gilas cross-border channels, unlike "Rai Uno", do not know how many of these channels are cross-border, which are real cross-border channels in a privileged position, belong to the SBB, United Group, etc. In this United group is “Darrekt Media, ” does that sound familiar to you, that is, in the United Media subgroup? There's also the KAS Media, which deals with commercials. Mr. Minister, those domestic commercials are being broadcast in this country. They're not re-emitting, they're not an integral part of the Luxembourg original program. They take bread from the domestic media. Domestic media, which are registered to pay from REM, RATEL SOKOJ, etc., pay everyone compensation, these fake cross-border channels don't pay anyone anything. Domestic media looking at 80% of SBBs don't get any money from SBB. Their production, their directors, their installers, their technique, their cameras, etc. is used. For that used program, they don't get anything. They are forced to provide their services for free SBB, and SBB is connected to United media, linked to 20 fake transgender channels from Luxembourg. To them, the "SBB" from the subscription, a Serbian subscriber, stands out a few euros per user, and has 900,000 users and a few million euros receive various TVs and therefore my question – is there any strength and guts to check how much money is pumped onto fake cross-border television from subscribers, Serbian subscribers? If Telecom, which takes up twice as much of the market, pays in the budget a profit of 150 million, and SBB or United Group and United Media have been showing losses for years and you realize that money is being pumped through fake cross-border channels. How then "Bi-Si Partners", which he bought, allegedly bought, from the School, Gilas and Petreus United Group and United Media. How did they pay 2.6 billion euros if it made losses? Who in the West buys a company that doesn't make a profit? I already told you what a profit is. Who gives that kind of money to losers? It's clear to everyone in this room, and it's clear to you that Solak, Gilas, Petreus and the crew are pumping money. We have to get in the way of it, he's unauthorizedly broadcasting commercials and additionally respecting the domestic media, but they don't pay for nothing, they pay for these others. These domestic channels pay for broadcasting fees, they don't pay and in the end domestic media live off these ads, they take their advertising market 20m euros annually. They unauthorizedly broadcast commercials and end the original program via border television. These ads are not an integral part of the original program in Luxenburg, which is one lie and a big scam. That lie and the great deception we must stand in the way so that they do not stop at us, because once they get the media market in Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia that will rule at that time will either be a pendant or will be removed. We better remove this injustice, this robbery, the School, Gilasov, than let them remove the state. The law of the Serbian state must be the right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58227	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58228	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are in some past period, when we are now considering topics in the area of economy, trade, etc. we can identify the same framework, the same form by which the laws are passed and followed in the process of passing laws in the National Assembly in these areas. So, in the reasons of the law, almost every one has an identical sentence – in line with the negotiating frameworks in the process of Serbia's accession and EU membership, it also says here: "The reasons for the adoption of the law on official EU documents states that retailing is a key link between producers and final consumers, but also that it also has a major impact on the environment by providing direct links between the development of rural and urban areas to users and providers of logistics and transport services to the use of energy, to entities dealing with waste, and to cross-border consumers of products. We can see that form in every law, i.e. in every reason of the law, in the past four years and before. Therefore, what the executive authority does in the draft legislative acts is not identify the underlying problems and the biggest barriers that exist in the areas of trade, but simply fulfil the form in order to meet some criteria in the negotiating chapters. All that we can hear commendably about our outstanding progress, how Serbia today is an exporter of stability, how investors compete to invest in our country, and that it is an obvious indicator that we are on a good path and that in 2025 or whatever year we will become full members of the EU, it is only a deception of what is being done, as in the previous 19 years, not only about this authority, which is the unspeakable fulfillment of the dictatorships that come from abroad, from the smallest, such as some legal changes in individual areas, to those great and significant, such as talks on sovereignty, i.e. Undermining sovereignty and territorial integrity in any way. Now, that's what we're going through through through the law-making process and the general debate in the National Assembly. If we need to talk and see what the biggest problems are in this field in Serbia, then, above all, we should consider the SAA, which was signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia ten years ago, which, in fact, destroyed our economy. What we are now calling on here, which is to protect against unfair competition to enable a fair competition, is the main problem of the SAA because we have come to a situation that our product from abroad is privileged in the Serbian market compared to the product produced in Serbia, and that is what is abnormal and will ruin our economy in the long run, and we see the consequences today, when certain agricultural products, which are produced in Serbia, are more expensive than those who come from abroad. Where can we control that? Where can we control dumping products and dumped prices? We can't. We apply the SAA unilaterally by allowing the import lobby to do whatever it wants on the market of the Republic of Serbia. The then minister who signed it, that is, paraphrased the SAA, said at the moment that it was a pen that he signed that would make it into history, as it allowed Serbia at the end of the road, at the end of the tunnel when it saw light, to become a member of the EU one day. You know, all the occupation signatures are remembered, it's not bad said Mr. Djelic, but let's see what's happened in these last 10 years, that's seven years, that's how the new ruling majority in the Assembly and the new government in Serbia, what's changed? Do we have any changes visible? Is there a break-up with the practice of DOS authorities and all their relapses by 2012? I don't think so. We have in Serbia forcing foreign investors, i.e. businessmen who come from abroad at the expense of domestic economy. It is thus also brought to this extent that we not only give sometimes and more than 10,000 euros per job so that the businessman hires someone in Serbia and in fact we pay his workforce, which gives all possible permits to build objects or adapt, whether it's greenfield or brownfield investments, according to accelerated procedures and land is free of charge. Then how can we talk about the success of our economy? We now have restrictions on this field, that we can be told by Brussels, that is, the EU and European administrations where and what we are going to produce and how we are going to place these goods, all the way to detail. I am very sorry that Minister Rasim Ljajic is not here today. I would very much like to explain how a country can make sovereign decisions if, at the time of EU sanctions, that is, when EU sanctions were first introduced to the Russian Federation, when it presented a plan at a press conference, an increase in our agricultural exports to Russia, which is now our chance to make the most of it, especially in light of those contracts that we have signed with Russia, what we are going to do. No, the EU's representative in Serbia is making a diplomatic note saying it would not be smart and desirable for Serbia to make some sovereign decisions at the moment that are not in the interests of the Brussels administration, but should gradually advertise foreign and security policy with the EU if it wants to become a member. The process of Serbia's EU accession is one process without a finality, where there is no solution, and this solution will certainly not be Serbia's EU membership fully. We saw what President McCron said. He said that for France and Europe, Kosovo and Serbia are two independent countries, and we now need to deal with this in advance? He did not say it in Paris but said it in Belgrade, aware of what he said and what it means. So, we should make peace with Serbia recognising Kosovo's independence as the EU did, and I will remind you that the EU has recognised Kosovo as soon as it has run any negotiations with them, so that we can become an EU member. I suppose that should be clear, not that we are interpreting here, our ministers or some independent experts and experts in diplomacy and international relations, etc., who appear on television to interpret the words of the French president. I guess that should be enough for us. The French president said at the plenary of the European Parliament that the EU will not expand, because we do not know what to do with these 27 members now, not to receive new ones. For the first time, there is no Commissioner for Enlargement. He had a neighboring commissioner. That was Mr. Johannes Han. This should be an indicator of what and how the EU thinks, not that we think we have done something and that we have made some progress because we have taken some law, translated it from English to Serbian, and then in this field we have achieved some standards that are called European today, as in the last 20 years everything that is related to the EU is called European. The European Union has a monopoly on that term. It's not like that. To ignore the need to recognise Kosovo's independence, which is a fundamental and clear fact and should be the reason for the suspension of membership negotiations, if we just look at countries that are comparable to Serbia in all segments, in the economy, in social policy or anything else, that have recently entered the EU, for example Bulgaria. Bulgaria considered itself a key foreign-political partner until the time of EU membership to the Russian Federation. They were very successful in exporting everything they could produce to Russia. From the moment of membership, they were banned from doing so, and then their main foreign trade partner was Germany, and instead of the surpluses that were made in the trade trade with Russia, they today have a multi-million-dollar deficit with Germany. That's comparable stuff. The European Union dictates position and direction in all areas of society in the Member States and these are never advice and guidance on the benefit of the country. One of the most recent examples is a situation similar to that of Serbia now and so on. Kosovo, where a legally binding agreement is sought. We had a chance to see that the Greek and Macedonian prime ministers had signed the so-called. an agreement from Prespa, which Macedonia changed its name to Northern Macedonia. So they gave up their name, renamed themselves, all because they were asked by Europe and because they presented it as a great thing and removing obstacles in Macedonia's further Euro-Atlantic integration. And then shortly after a month, we saw that the EU did not open with Macedonia. It's a free deal. There is no reason for such a case not to be with Serbia, if it signs a legally binding agreement with so-called. Kosovo. The same will be, only a new condition. And there will always be a new condition. Then all this stuff we're doing in this field is a hoax. As far as specific things are concerned, in the past week, i.e. Ten days ago, we passed the Community militia Act here. We now have a municipal militia that has abnormally large powers, which, as a parallel apparatus of power, can go in Serbia and seduce order. We don't know who controls it, we don't know who's controlling it, we don't know who's controlling it, we don't know who's keeping track of the possibility of abuse of the municipal militia, and here we're giving them some authority that needs to have an inspection, i.e. Market inspectors. Why is that? We want to let the municipal militia now and these Serbian businessmen get bullied? Because I don't think the municipal militia is going to enter some foreign investors' companies in Serbia, but this is just directed at our businessmen and entrepreneurs. So we have a situation that in the Serbian market, a domestic producer and a domestic economy is discriminated against, in every way possible. And plus, the problem isn't solved, it's deepening by setting these limits and putting these things into legislation, as is the case with the municipal militia. As far as e-commerce is concerned, we now have one widespread phenomenon, which is the sale of goods via social networks and the Internet. We don't have any security in that field. We don't know anything about who to buy from, or what it's worth, and if that's the product that we see in the picture and then we have no certainty that this product that was purchased by electronic means will come to the destination and that it will be that product, that there will be no pile of old newspapers or bricks in the box or whatever. If we want to solve potential problems, we need to regulate how it would fit our system, not what it says in English from acts of the Brussels administration, registering individuals who sell online, and then after that there is some control and some responsibility and quality control and preventing fraud, bring them into Serbia's tax system in this way. That should be our goal. We think that the introduction of a general municipal militia especially in this field can cause a lot of problems, because there is no way to control it and limit it. And we leave room for some parallel group, a parallel system of physical coercion to harass small businesses in Serbia, i.e. Merchants. Only they will be directed at those who sell on the markets, who have independent shops, workshops, etc., only on them. Therefore, if there is an interest in protecting our economy, then I guess it should be the basic abolition of these things, not the deepening of the power of new laws. I guess that should be the direction in which the Serbian government thinks. What is obvious is that in every democratic state it should be, there is a free market without unfair competition, with as much information as possible and the one who sells and the one who buys about products and everything else. But we now have a thing that the free market means, when observed by the EU, that it is a free market if it operates by an investor from the EU or from the West, and the violation of the free market is when it has any advantage from a domestic economy. This means a free market from their perspective, not what should be and what should be the goal of establishing an economy in Serbia. So, first of all, problems need to be solved at the source, not to satisfy the amendments to the law in order to round up and meet some criteria. I guess we should think about how to improve the situation as much as possible and make it easier for businesses in Serbia to operate rather than be discriminated against in their own country. That should be our goal, and first of all, we need to reconsider the SAA. I will remind you, if a small island, with 300,000 inhabitants, could make a sovereign decision that EU membership is not in their interest because they do not want to be told from abroad what and how they should do and do business, I do not see why this could not have been the case with Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58229	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nemanja Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58230	Thank you. I will talk about the proposal for a law on trade and a bill on amendments to the Law on electronic trade. What USAID has shown is that among the companies operating in Serbia, three quarters offer their online services, and as the biggest obstacle to further development in this sector, the company is directed by insufficient education both by sellers and consumers. The e-commerce law is certainly a modernising law, and it should be pointed out that these laws should, above all, encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the emphasis should be on encouraging Serbian citizens to get involved as easily as possible in entrepreneurial waters and offer their goods and services online. What we need to take advantage of, which is the progress of humanity and that today we are able to implement our business ideas in action thanks to one computer and a permanent Internet network. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade defines a distance contract, i.e. contracts via the Internet and mainly provides a termological alignment with the new Law on Trade. What is good is that an informal group of information society service providers, i.e. the most significant names in the field of Internet trade, also participated in the draft law. As we have the opportunity to see from the attached, it is necessary for good laws to consult and respect the opinions of those to which a certain law applies. This practice should be introduced and nurtured in other cases, especially when cases of law are more sensitive things, such as media, freedom of expression and individual rights. In line with this, in the voting day, I will support this law, but I would call on the majority members of this parliament to pay attention and adopt amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, as I believe they have improved this law in a number of places. My criticism goes to the fact that this law should have come to the agenda before, because we are witnessing that all this time on the Internet is about selling goods, and above all on Facebook and Instagram. That still means the entrepreneurs were doing business in some kind of gray zone. The important thing is that this law provides that customers who market online get the possibility that, if they are not satisfied with the purchase of certain products, they return the product within 14 days without reason. Also, the fact is that over the next few years in the world online trade will amount to billions of dollars and that many world trade chains are removing their retail facilities and switching to more economically online sales. For this reason, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES should make additional efforts to bring the citizens of Serbia closer to this opportunity and encourage citizens to go to the market, because I believe that the path to free society is conditioned by the care and development of the entrepreneurial spirit. Today, in this place, we have heard from some colleagues the demands for additional economic protection and donations for certain products, goods, producers, so I would also refer to that part of the law. This, unfortunately, is not only a trend in our country or EU countries, but it is part of a negative global trend that has led us to this level of development that we are at today, and they want markets to shut down and turn protectionism. What opens this issue in this law is a member of the 40th on trade under the name - Encouragement measures, which says: "In order to improve and develop trade and electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia, the Government can set incentive measures specifically related to a specific category of trader or service providers, certain goods or services, form and type of trade, as well as the way in which trade is done. "As someone who firmly believes in the principles of the free market, I believe that this position is in conflict with Article 4 of this law, which called - The principle of free trade, says: "trade is carried out freely on the market," and Article 5, which says traders are equal and have the same position on the market. Any form of discrimination in respect of conditions for the conduct of trade or distortion of the equality of traders on the market shall be prohibited. Let me, in this place, while French President McCron is visiting Serbia and while we remind ourselves of the great things we used to do together in World War I, take the opportunity to remind ourselves of some French giants who knew to be great in peace. His name is Fredrik Bastia, a 19th-century French economist who, noticing the country's growing need to interfere in economic relations and to show all the senselessness of protectionism, made an absurd and comical proposal. He then called for a petition from candle producers and their industrial associates against unfair competition. He, under unfair competition, meant the sun in that sense. So he asked the French parliament to pass the law on the ban on opening doors, windows, lighthouses, any openings and cracks that the sunlight could pass. So imagine a blessing that would come from priests and their industrial associates for increasing traffic. Of course, it is not a function of a market that is infallible by the principles of supply and demand. In part two, Bastia wondered - how long will the illusion of the state give us what she didn't take from us? What exactly did he mean? So every dinar that the state puts on subsidies and spends on subsidising some goods or products had to pick up in some place from citizens, mostly through taxes. Therefore, increasing the consumption of the state in the exhibition of protectionism and subsidisation over the longer term leads to an increase in the cost of life. The best incentive that a country for an individual and for an economy can be to reduce tax burden and rule of law, i.e. an equal competition for all. We can see that even when we look at what we're most successful at. We're the most successful in sports. For what? Because there are equal rules, which are equally respected, for all, which are clear and which all competitors adhere to. And to conclude, I firmly believe in the ability of our people and domestic producers and sellers, so we provide them with equal chances, a fair match and you will see the geniuses of the Serbian entrepreneur in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-16-0.u58231	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word based on article 96? Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposals of the law at issue. 3, 4th and 5th agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 6:35 p.m.]]
