ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have a quorum to work, so we continue the session within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) The word is Nada Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62309	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to start by asking the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Minister of Agriculture - when will it take measures to prevent the burning of plant residues in the fields of Vojvodina? These days we are witnessing that one person died trying to save his field from the fire that was caused in the neighboring field, which has gotten out of control. I have to remind myself that as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and last year at this time, I was asking what would be done about it, because, especially in the fields of Vojvodina, it's a settled practice to burn plant residues, allegedly because of the expensive fuel, farmers are forced to burn, instead of plowing plant residues, because they say it saves fuel, which is a very serious problem. Namely, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Law on Fire Protection, and the Criminal Law also provide for certain penalties for both natural and legal persons burning plant residues. I don't have to stress that there's double damage and environmental damage and damage to the fire when firemen have to intervene. So these are serious problems, which are, here we see and this season they repeat. The minister came out in front of the media the other day and said that satellite status is now being recorded, that only now will we take steps. I'm just asking what steps he's taking in accordance with the laws that are at his disposal right now? I'll remind you that the Agricultural Land Act has been in effect since 2015. On the other hand, everyone has been talking about digitisation, and for years now, the perpetrators cannot be identified, i.e. to identify parcels, i.e. who are the owners. They say there's not enough inspectors in the farm, there's not enough cars to get into the field and they don't even have an Internet connection to the plant. When will the Ministry solve these problems? Unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture does not appear neatly on the Committee, does not report every three months, but sends his deputies or even, lower-ranked officials. The second question I want to ask the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The issue refers to the work of the "Prekon", in Zrenjanin. Citizens living near this place complain about the smell and pollution that comes from this place. My question is – is this cafilarium a study of the impact assessment on the cereals environment and what measures are defined in that study and what has been implemented so far? I will remind you that in November 2018, the Zrenjanin Industrial Court banned the processing of animal waste for three years, unless it installs filters, thereby preventing air pollution. This verdict was even confirmed in the repeated procedure on 10 May 2019. So, I'm asking -- what has been done so far to eliminate the smell and pollution of this cafilarium, that is, to finally get the citizens to breathe normally? The following issue also concerns the Ministry of Environment Protection, and it is related to the work of the ethyl alcohol distillery "Vinex" in Lukiceva near Zrenjanin, where residents also complain that their air, land, drinking water has been polluted and claim that for six years in their village and problems have been caused by the distillery of ethyl alcohol "Vinex". This distillery, otherwise, was moved in 2012, from Kostojevic, the village of Bajna Basta, and said residents there were also protesting the sea of fish and air and land pollution. Last year, citizens of Lukic signed a petition with about 750 signatures of full-time citizens, asking for this issue to be resolved by owners to resolve the issue of pollution, and to submit requests to the National Assembly, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health to the Environment Agency and to the address of certain regional secretariats and city administrations of Zrenjanin and say they have not received answers. The owner argues that the pollution problem does not exist and has promised that in ten months, the bio-organism for electricity production will collapse. I ask the question of the Ministry of Environmental Protection – is this facility built and what do the analysis of the quality of air and waste water show after treatment in this facility? Next question I ask the Ministry of Transport – when will the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor begin? Media reports say works on the Fruskogorski Corridor should follow this autumn. How far did it go with the prep work? If they're really gonna start, we're officially in the fall. It is widely written on the road to Sarajevo, according to Pristina, so it looks like we'll be arriving in Sarajevo and Pristina sooner than via Fruska up, from Novi Sad to Capac or Ruma. I must remind myself that due to the construction of the Novi Sad rapid track, Novi Sad has already been cut off, practically, from the rest of Serbia by rail and other parts of Serbia until 2022, that will be the situation when the end of this stock is predicted and this has led to increased freight traffic, especially on the road to Bosnia via Fruska. We have already asked the prime minister's question regarding the construction of this Corridor, but apparently the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor has no priority, which is also well seen on Serbia's map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62310	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, something very strange is happening. The government of the Republic of Serbia directly but illegally and illegally intervened in the work of the RIK. Our question will be addressed to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic and Nebojsa Stefanovic, who signed this amazing conclusion. Imagine, the government made a decision on the organisation and implementation of training to work on the election board, and that act was delivered by the government to RIK, to have them chat there and sign what the government had brought. What exactly does this act contain? It provides for training of potential members of the electoral committees. So, you plan to issue some certificates to the election committees so that you have members of the election committee on the lager when you give them to Mishi Vacic, the "Saints" and the others you plan to collect their signatures. We've seen this before in Medvedja, where the advances collected the signatures of Misa Vacic, where their people were on the list of the so-called "Vacic". "rights", where the promoters of Misi Vacic provided information on who the social assistance users were, etc. You will now, or the government will, and I suppose the RIK, most of that commission, will obviously accept it, you want to train these potential members of the electoral committees to get some paper at the end, to fully involve NGOs. You give NGOs, or the government gives authority to train members of the electoral committees. He says NGOs have been actively involved in elections for the last three years. Who are these NGOs? Sonja Biserko, Anasonovic, the one organised by Mirdita, Sorosev Milan Antonijević. These are the NGOs that were imposed on you by McAllister, and then you act as if the state of Serbia is the person who took away the business ability, so now we need someone who, on our behalf, imagine, is going to conduct the election process. What else does this decision foresee? Vanparliamentary parties will deliver the names of potential members of the electoral committees, and these members of the election committees will, imagine, train NGOs, and members of the RIK will sit there as ikeban, watching NGOs train those political parties that are not in parliament. This is really something amazing. You're trying, the pro-European government is trying to reach out to the pro-European opposition, make them not boycott the election, and you're doing everything to make the lists of those who are going to boycott the elections expand, because what you're doing is the most serious possible violation of democracy. Let me tell you, remember what I'm saying now, what I'm saying to you now is that Mcalister is coming to you through Antonijevic, who was, it's modern said – a Moderator, so he put together power, pro-European power and pro-European opposition, this will be a reason for you, after the spring elections, to be told you that your choices are irregular. Remember how this is going to blow over your head. You have an example of Boško Obradović and Sande Raskovic, who had Scott inserted into the National Assembly. You accepted that if you hadn't, he wouldn't have. So, what do we have today and back how much of that? Just to remind you, this Milan Antonijević, since he has been talking here for years about how bad it is that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, from the Serbian prisons, released about 1,300 Shipara, including this Kurti, and said Milan Antonijevic, boasted a few days ago, said he was very proud that the then "Jukom" in which he was, wrote the law, which the government adopted and was pardoned under that pardon law by the group of Shipara, including Kurti. Such Milan Antonijevic is someone who obviously writes this and who will obviously get involved most seriously in the election process, and I repeat, if you accept these illegalities, you will see what will happen to you from their side and from their mentors after the spring elections next year. Look, Zaeva, look how they forced him to sign the Prespan Agreement, how much they forced him to give up his names, how he was admitted to illegal elections, and now you're going, we don't need you anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62312	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Mr. Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62313	Thank you. We'll ask the finance minister and the president of the state to explain the announcement of the cab driver's subsidisation. Last night, according to information from certain media outlets in New Belgrade, it was quite cheerful because an attempt was made to take a vehicle away from a member of the association of a company that transports its members to Belgrade, using some IT app on a mobile phone. This seizure of the vehicle has escalated to the point that the municipal police with the traffic police had to call an intervention brigade of the MUP, certain citizens gathered, and Bulevar Mihajla Pupina was blocked, another episode in a series of several-day blockages of Belgrade streets by Belgrade taxi drivers. This is, above all, the problem of Belgrade's citizens, but given the announced subsidisation of the purchase of taxis to the Belgrade taxi drivers, the problem threatens to escalate and to push all citizens of Serbia i.e. taxpayers, because this subsidy will be implemented from a budget in which taxes and contributions and other fiscal taxes are paid by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Following a meeting with representatives of the part of Belgrade taxi drivers, who protested, the republic's president announced that the state would finance 5,000 euros in purchase of taxis. We need clarifications to see which cab drivers? Was it just those who were protesting or all the cab drivers? Are all Belgrade taxi drivers or all taxi drivers in Serbia? If you take that you have about 6,000 taxi drivers in Belgrade, at 5,000 euros each, that is 30m euros from the budget planned to subsidise passenger transport in road traffic, a taxi with a taxi. So, do you and the line taxi drivers? Because you have line cab drivers who, for example, in certain parts of the state compensate for the total absence of public transportation, where you have peripheral parts of the country from which citizens don't have a bus and train to go to the hospital, so they're forced to pay a expensive line taxi to go to a specialist examination with a doctor. So, the basic question is, what are taxi drivers, and that part of Belgrade cabbies that blocked the city for days and weeks, which is why they're in charge of the state, besides having the ability to force their vehicles to block the city? Do IT entrepreneurs, perhaps, need to block the country's telecommunications for a certain period of time, to save themselves, say, extra taxation and gain the right to some fiscal support and incentive of the state? Why would they subsidize this very kind of public transport? Why don't we subsidize city public transport and maybe get extra and new buses, trolley buses, trams? Why is taxi transport more than other types of public transport, because it can be said that, for example, taxi transport is a kind of luxury? People take a cab and knowingly pay it more than the bus when they go to town to have a good time so they can drink. Why would we subsidize that kind of luxury for going to a party? Why would we even subsidize before this kind of public transport rather than, say, further subsidize agriculture when our subsidies in agriculture are 10-15 times less than our subsidies in agriculture in the countries of our close environment, so in the countries of the region? Why would a tax payer from Nis or Novi Sad subsidise with his tax taxes to get a car to a Belgrade taxi driver? Be careful now, the finance minister announced that it is in the preparation of a regulation that will regulate the subsidisation of taxis and announced that one of the conditions would be for taxi drivers to settle their tax debts or to conclude a tax debt reprogramme agreement. So, we'll subsidize the irregular tax payoffs, the taxpayers don't pay the taxes and the taxpayers' taxes. We're going to subsidize them, and we're not going to further subsidize, say, farmers who regularly settle all their fiscal obligations. Now, the next question is immediately being addressed, which is the finance minister, does he intend to withdraw the announced regulation that will regulate the co-principals, since there is a certain test of independence against which the IT community is rebelling, because this regulation provides for an additional 10% of the fiscal burden per year for the IT community, with criteria not even regulated in fundamental issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62314	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go, Mr. Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62315	Thank you. My question goes to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice and concerns the circumstances under which he was deprived of his freedom, that is to say, he was detained and detained for almost a month in the custody of Aleksandar Obradovic of Valjev, for allegedly giving away business secrets in the corporation, i.e. "Holding Krusik". My question concerns the entire, overall circumstances of the case, which is before, I see how much yesterday, and the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Information Milan Marinovic also said, in his opinion, that the arrest action was not appropriate and that it should be examined for allegations of which he speaks, whether he has or does not have a formal alert status, whether he meets or not the formal conditions for Mr Obradovic to receive alert status. So, regardless of even that, as I would say, side-by-side, but the important support that the Information Commissioner gave yesterday strengthened this issue of mine and the questions of everyone else who's been going public with it the last few days. The fact is that the way we were able to read and inform ourselves about the arrest, that is, the arrest of Aleksandr Obradovic, was least said inappropriate, not to say a more difficult word. So anyway, and I'm also asking the Department of Justice, especially when the word is in the light of his detention, I say, almost a month in custody, do they think it was a case for such a drastic measure? It is known that it is applied only in extreme cases, when there is a danger of action on witnesses, pressure on witnesses, liquidation of witnesses and so on, and none of this time was the case and even the indictment itself and the prosecutor himself, the suspect, or the accused Obradovic, all agree that he acted individually. So, no groups, no conspiracy was there. In that light, therefore, there is also a question for the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, as regards the circumstances of his arrest, detention and detention. My second question, and regarding the same case, goes to the address of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it is about the ministries and bodies that were all obliged to declare the permit, or something that Mr. Obradovic mentioned, and some documents that were leaked in the meantime, about the circumstances under which it was first given, and then the denied permission to "Krusik" directly export mines, i.e. its products, in this case mines, to Armenia. After denying that authorisation, therefore, they had to obtain the permission of all these institutions that I mentioned, the Ministry of Trade, Defence, Home Affairs and, allegedly, BIA, therefore, after denying that authorisation, this same permit, for the same job, was granted to a private company involved in the export of military equipment. It is, of course, just one case, but one quite, I would say, a well-documented case, which speaks of the justification of the initiative I have put forward here in time, recently repeated in the course of the new draft amendments and additions of the law, that as far as possible, I would say completely prone to these intermediaries and this privatisation from the trade in dedicated products, because I don't see what it is for, except that in some way, a state company that is successful, or at least it was successful in its work. Therefore, an intermediary that is authorised by the state authorities is introduced, and the same permits and for the same job have been denied previously by the ‘Cruise’ itself. So that's why Krusika's profits are down, and I don't see what the reasons are. In this sense, my question comes, which these institutions have cited – the Ministry of Trade, Defence and Home Affairs, that they in general or some of them deny that "Holding Valjevo" permission to directly export their products and make a deal with Armenia. So, it's just a small illustration of the huge problem that arises about this and why Mr. Obradovic and all the other alarmers who go public with this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62316	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62317	Thank you. I would ask a few questions from the area where I live, which is southeastern Serbia, where Nis is the centre and surrounding municipalities. I have repeated the specific question several times, and I will now repeat once again, related to the construction of charging ramps in the section of the highway that goes across Nis to Sofia, i.e. towards Greece, where we have both certain petitions and finally, the payment ramps are done. For me now, it is a pleasure that after a series of my initiatives, it is now possible that especially for the citizens of Nis can provide special tickets that will be financed by the city of Nis via "The Way of Serbia", where for all the citizens of Nis who travel and take a detour across the highway, it will be free transport for them. I welcome that, and that's great, because it's a big need, because the city of Nis is a city that has great opportunities, and on the other hand, there's a lot of need for some detours. But I am now interested, since it is for the citizens of Nis it has been accepted by the "The Way of Serbia", my question is "The Ways of Serbia" – is there a possibility that local self-governments in the Nisavska administrative district, such as the Srlig municipality, such as the Gajin Han municipality, Merošin municipality and other municipalities, whose citizens, from these municipalities, need to reach Nis, because a large number of people from these municipalities work in Nis and go daily jobs in Nis. Not only that, but also the needs of health care, needs and others, because Nis is the center of all events? So my question is "Serb Paths" will have the possibility, for example, of the Municipality of Srljig to allocate funds from its budget in the same way as the city of Nis did, and that for the people of Srljiga they have these cards that they can go to Nis on the highway free of charge if they want to go, to be a detour or if that is a greater need? Can this be done for the citizens of Srljig, for the citizens of Merošina and those municipalities that are in the Nisavska Management District, who are working, who have needs, with the obligation to separate local self-government from their budget from the budget in the same way as the city of Nis? The purpose as a municipality is ready to do so and to provide the means for the people of the Scroll to travel to Nis and work in Nis to be provided. That's my question. Once again I would ask about the construction of the road from Malcana loop to Književacka Street, because the road is really in very bad shape, and about the problems around that road I have talked about several times in the Assembly and asked to get into the process to do this part of the road because it is a great need for all of us who come from Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, Negotina, Bora, because as I said, the city of Nis is the center of all our events, there is a lot of need where all of our people from these municipalities come from. I would also like to ask the same "The Ways of Serbia", specifically about the detour in the part of the regional state road, whether to enter the process of reconstructing the part of the road that goes through Svrljig itself, through the village of Galibabinca, to the village of Beli stream. It's the Književci municipality. The road is in catastrophic condition. We expect that this path will be put into operation, i.e. entering into the reconstruction process in the following year. The need is great, and we are witnessing that in the coming years, 2020, 2021, there will be large investments in infrastructure, so I am asking this, because of the needs of citizens living in Svrlig, in Književec, who function between. These are all people who may have been born in Svrelig, who live in Književci or vice versa. It is also true, will it be possible to make way in the next period of 2020, which gives the possibility that from Svrljig to Soko Banja, it is part of Labukov via Radenkovec, that part of the road will end? There is a great need to connect the municipality of Svrljig and the municipality of Soko Banja. I think it's a big need, and I expect it to be done because large funds are being provided for the needs of infrastructure work. I would now take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Property Directorate and the people who run the Property Directorate for Up-to-date and Efficiency, especially Director Jovan Vorkapic, Olivera Krstic and the Head of the Directorate, Nevena Zeljkovic. These are people who are really doing their job in the interest of all of us living outside Belgrade and we need to finish what we started. Thank you to the people who work at the Property Directorate. They're really doing their job the best way. That's what I can say about "Serbia" for Mr. Puzovic's director, because these are people who do their job in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62318	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Mirjana Dragaš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62319	Dear President, honourable Members, I would use the day to ask questions to address the issue of the Minister of Agriculture, and it is about our co-operation with abroad and the increasing potential for agricultural development, i.e. the creation of new products intended for export. In particular, I am interested in what strategy and concrete measures or concrete programmes for the development of agriculture for the next period of preparation of the ministry and what budget plans are, given the growing interest of other countries in our agricultural products. I would certainly point out in this great effort by the government to strengthen Serbia in economic terms, to stabilise it and to position it as a desirable and prominent partner and a country to invest and develop in businesses. The government has achieved significant successes in this, and we have witnessed this every day. In this regard, we have recently adopted budget rebalancing, credit rating has been improved, and the World and European Bank estimates of Serbia's reform successes are clear. One of the important places to heal Serbia is certainly agriculture, given the potential Serbia has. Agreements have recently been signed to export our agricultural products to China, Russia, Turkey, Lebanon, the countries of the Eurasian Union. The Prime Minister is now in Japan, and where we get news of the interest of this highly developed industrial country in our agricultural products. It's all very important, because it's a huge space with a large number of people looking for high quality products, healthy food, regular and precise delivery. These opportunities must be exploited and complex measures and deep reforms must be taken as soon as possible in agricultural production and in relation to the village. The Serbian village today, after everything it has survived in previous years, economically and in any other respect, is still more dependent on the state, not vice versa, as it used to be and in the meantime it has also been socially devastated. The modern village, as we need it today, needs legal-technical land, educated labour, larger livestock stock, cheaper capital, better roads, orientation in general to healthy food and regularity of delivery. In this context, I believe that the necessary synchronised and fundamental systematic reforms are necessary at all levels, from the top of the country to the village and vice versa, which is not possible, of course, to be achieved in a short period of time and segmented. That is why this is also the issue of the Ministry of Agriculture, it can be said to the entire government, in what sense should it position and make plans for where and how it should be the place of agricultural production in Serbia, both for domestic needs and for the foreign market that is open to us? Surely Serbia's natural potentials are great. There are ecologically clean areas in us, and this must be preserved, but also used, in which organic food can be produced for increasingly demanding needs. Today, the underdeveloped infrastructure of Serbia, roads, not restored or not restored, a village without internet, without young people and without funds, is not a village that can respond to such demands as we are expected to. So I think we need to be just aware of where we are right now, make no fear of a new decision, position the village in the centre of attention, connect science and profession, village and peasants and it must be a real, modern, agricultural producer, manager and businessman in agriculture. Is the Ministry of Agriculture planning to take exactly this kind of action over the next period, in this way to approach all segments of agricultural production and to ensure that in the near time period, with the help of the state, banks and foreign funds, this kind of development of the village is ensured? In that case, surely we do not have to worry then about the development of these parts, about their growing departure from them, and at the same time there will be a renewal of the demographic structure in them of the property, the creation of cooperatives, the pooling of capital and knowledge. I believe that this is exactly the kind of approach that can contribute to Serbia's development and modern integration on the world and European markets on new development grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62320	Thank you. The word now has Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62321	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move on to the parliamentary issue, I would like to inform you that today is 295 days that MPs of the opposition do not come to their jobs for which they receive their salary neatly. So, the tenth month that they're not doing the job that the citizens have chosen them for. I have several parliamentary issues, and first it is addressed to the prosecution for the threat of security and various threats that have become everyday in our political life these days and come from certain opposition leaders. Namely, Article 131. The criminal code says - who threatens the safety of a person by threatening to attack the life or body of that person or a close person will be punished by fine or prison for up to one year. The person acting under Article 1 shall act according to the President of the Republic, the People's MP, the Prime Minister, the members of the Government, the Constitutional Court, the judge, the judge, the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, the lawyer, the police officer and the person performing matters of public importance in the field of information relating to the affairs he performs will be sentenced to prison from six months to five years. Why is this important? Because in recent days, we have had the opportunity to witness a bizarre trend of representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, which is a threat to Alexander Vukic and members of the SNS leadership, so let's see what it looks like. Here it is, Bosko Obradovic, who wrote, quote, that KIM is not all of us, says the president who swore on the Constitution and the Gospel that he would keep KIM in the composition of Serbia, for this you are mine and you have a slap the first time we see each other, quote, a traitorous bastard, plus you get a multi-year sentence when you do. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad. Let's move on. Marco Bastache. It's the one that's been wild for months already in Belgrade, and lately it's become famous for smuggling tens of thousands of euros from abroad, and he says -- I promise Vesic Goran he'll get one slap from me, so let him think about what he's going to do, because I think it's a proper educational measure, Bastic said. Imagine that smile that Bastac slaps someone. Better explain who he was getting the money from in Dubai. We have this fake unionist, Zeljko Veselinović, who immediately joined this unfortunate group, how does it go without him anyway, so he says - since my buddy Bastic promised him a slap on Goran Vesic, then it's time for the rest of us to find our adversaries, I say the slap I promise Vladimir Orlic, he's my first stop on the draft. We were so scared of our colleague Orlic and I. We've all been so scared, so we're trembling because of his threats. My question was referred to Zagorka Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor - is he ever intended to publish and take appropriate measures in accordance with the law to prevent such phenomena? I really feel like one must stand in the way of this madness. Far from being afraid of these, I say, tragic characters, but a message must be sent that Serbia is a decent and orderly country where threats of physical violence cannot be tolerated. It has long been clear to all that the Alliance for Serbia's policy is only a threat, violence, calls for lynch, persecution, etc., but so much more we have to do something to get in the way and get this out of the public discussion. Why am I pointing this out? Because what's happening in the last few days is the culmination of what we've talked about and warned about for months, and that's the growing aggression of the hysterical minority in a society that out of impotence tries violence and threats to achieve its political goals, because how do you explain that a group of lunatics led by Marko Bastic literally pursues Goran Vesic on the streets with the intention of lynching him? I will remind in this sense of the front page of "Today," it says – it is true that we will chase them in the streets. That's where they remind me of that unfortunate statement by Jovo Bakic. How do you explain that little, little, so they come in front of the building where Goran Vesic lives? How do you explain the burning of his books? That's all the Nazis did. To what extent hate can. How do I explain the most monstrous insults sent to the journalist RTS, Oliveri Jovicevic, whatever I think of the editorial policy RTS, and I mean nothing good, but how do I explain such monstrous insults? Be careful what this Sergey Trifunovic says – the show led by Olivera Jovicevic exists exclusively that Olivera Jovicevic would not work 150 euros an hour at the invitation. Imagine this. What this looks like, he's not ashamed. How dare you talk to any woman like this? The shame for the entire male race is Sergei Trifunovic. He better explain what he's doing in Bali and where he gets the money to fly to Bali and still mock the Serbian people. The chairman, I end it, mocks the Serbian people and says -- Bali is quite cheap and available, a couple of euros for two weeks, which is a little thing. He's not ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62322	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National Ambassador of the Director Dejan Radenkovic. In the context of this session, which has been delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Articles 92 and 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2016. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for three full years now, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I propose that the agenda be complemented by a decision to form a survey committee that would once and for all establish facts concerning the murder of Zoran Djindjic. You know that it is quite clear that there is a certain political background for this murder and it is quite clear that behind that murder, regardless of who were the direct perpetrators, which is also not resolved until the end, as it was not resolved whether there were two bullets or there were three bullets, it is quite clear that there is a foreign factor involved in all of this and that without the consent of foreign governments, which in any way today are trying to influence the situation in Serbia, there would never be a murder of Zoran Djindjic. You also know very well that since his death the most politically profited those who today represent themselves for his friends, and who then progressed, took over certain functions, some of the post of Deputy Prime Minister, some of their previous functions have been replaced better, and those today use Zoran Djindjic as a certain impediment, but absolutely, like your ruling majority, refuse to determine the facts about how it happened. My view is that every affair, especially those serious criminal affairs in Serbia, should see their end, or citizens should see their end, and sometimes it should finally be determined what is true. The biggest problem of Serbian society is that our courts do not serve for what they should serve and that you never know with certainty what the truth is about an event. When you need it politically, you refer to Zoran Djindjic. When it's necessary to go and lay garters where he was killed and dive crocodile tears, it's supposed to be difficult for you now, even though you from the ruling majority of the worst possible things said about him, said that the mob prime minister, said he was the most responsible for numerous robbery privatisations in Serbia, and now you're talking a whole other song. Once again, I call for this issue to be resolved within the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because it is the only way that this country finally begins to function in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62324	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—16, against—one, the abstentioned—there is none of the 151 people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Žika Gojkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2019. Here you go, Mr. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62325	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I invite you to put in today's agenda amendments to the law on enforcement and security, in the people as the law has been baptized, on the perpetrators. The quality and applicability of the laws we adopt in this Parliament can only be assessed when some law is applied and if there are shortcomings it is normal to amend the law because it is a living thing that adapts to time, but also some of the other circumstances in which we live. The law on perpetrators, despite being able to resolve the issue of the collection of individuals who have abused state institutions, has proved to have a whole series of shortcomings that need to be changed. There is little time to talk about everything, so I will only take out the key changes proposed by the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, and given that we have raised over 50,000 signatures for this support, and everything from Barajev started when priest Vid Milic and six children were supposed to stay on the street. So we're proposing the following -- a ban on confiscation of property to those who are the only housing unit and that the perpetrators can't take away their property and leave people on the street. Two, a ban on charging over housing units to those families that have a single 50,000, and a total of 100,000 dinars, especially if they have more children. Under three, social cases that owe to the utility cannot be charged through the executioner. Under four, bids that are very often suspicious must be checked for participation in them because we have various evidence that those associated with the perpetrators are involved. No one can stay on the street for any law, especially if they charge debts to those people who can't repay it financially. Please consider. This is very good because this is beyond politics and the laws of course must be respected, but humanity and humanity must be above every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62326	Thank you, Mr. Gojkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the committee of inquiry, in order to determine the facts and circumstances concerning the pressures on the state authorities and violations of the law during the elections for MPs in the National Assembly held in 2016, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another proposal I'm going to make who knows which way, at every new session. I once again put up with it, hoping that finally the ruling majority will have the wisdom and courage to accept this proposal. You yourself know that there are certain problems in the electoral process in Serbia, that these elections have never been conducted exactly the way it was supposed to be, in accordance with the law. You know, that there was never equality in the media, and you know that the ruling majority, led by the SNS, under the orders of US Ambassador Scott, introduced two electoral lists into the National Assembly that were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, crossed the 5% censorship that was prescribed for someone to sit in the National Assembly and represent the citizens of Serbia. I warned you it was better to resolve this problem through the institutions of the system. You didn't accept it, you said it wasn't a subject to talk about. You said the highest House of Representatives, which is the National Assembly, shouldn't talk about it. However, you are clearly under pressure from the West to change your attitudes very quickly. About seven or ten days ago, we experienced an unprecedented disgrace. You have humiliated the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all its citizens, brought us back decades ago and agreed to negotiate with the part of the pro-Western opposition on electoral conditions, completely past the constitution, completely past the law, and what is worst with the intervention of EU representatives, or some of the former EU parliamentarians. You have thus shown that you are unable to exercise power in Serbia, that you are unable to organise elections in accordance with the Constitution and the law and that you are subject to any type of pressure. Are we, as MPs and as citizens of Serbia, incompetent, are we foolish, are we completely unprofessional? You obviously are as soon as you accept that kind of dialogue, so you need someone from the EU to come in and line you up, say you're sitting there, and these other poles sit there, and now you're going to talk like your EU educator tells you to. It is a shame for Serbia, the process must be returned under the auspices of the Constitution, the law and the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the only way to do so is to accept such initiatives as I am today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62328	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there are no abstentions for – 13, from a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Bill on the Rights of Fighters and Families of the Dead and Missing Fighters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 November 2017. Here you go, General Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62329	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the 19th or 20th time I've talked about this law. If the National Assembly had understood the problems of the fighters, it could have, for three years now, passed this law. The government could have taken it as its proposal and could have installed it in a draft that the government otherwise prepared and which was scheduled to come to the Assembly in November. You know that here in the Assembly this proposal has always been voted by 20 to 30 MPs. Here, now we have a situation where across the hall in the park we have fighters who have been sleeping in tents for 18 days, trying to awaken their conscience in these two facilities. In this here, where you are as the MPs and representatives of the people present and in that building on the other side. Certain contacts have also been made and as the first result of this bill, which is the worst possible to be put before the Assembly, which is scheduled for November, will not enter the Assembly procedure. Probably our Assembly won't discuss the draft law on fighters anymore. It's probably going to do some other convulsion. But one other fact. I pass and every day I stop by as much as I can in that park. Before me there were certain MPs from the National Assembly who passed by by and stopped by to see what the demands of the fighters were. They were from the ruling coalition, independent MPs. After Saturday's session, the SRS deputies were all to visit the fighters. What the fighters ask me – how is it that individual MPs, who by the fighters recognize gentlemen, because you are all public figures, how they turn their heads when they pass that park, and the individuals who are going to pass and they should go right through that camp, turn and go the other way. At least that's ugly, 'cause you gentlemen wouldn't have anything happened there. You can stop by, see what their demands are, you can even drink coffee, water, juice, and they'll certainly know how to respect it. Their task force, with a second working group formed by the President's Office and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is working on a new bill, but it is important, not as representatives of a party, as politicians, but as people, to come and visit fighters, disabled and veterans.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62330	Thank you, Mr. Delic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, has a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62331	Thank you. On October 15th, it was exactly one year since we first submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law with an emphasis on changing members who allow children from Serbia to be adopted by some people abroad. Of course, we gave that argument in the written proposal itself, and here, every time we talk about it, we emphasize it. Today I would like to talk about this proposal as well as all the suggestions. You from the congregation majority, in fact, generally from the government, are not in the mood to do some general important things for, let's say, the largest number of people living in Serbia. You are dealing with something that the government delivers to you and it is the only topic you want to talk about and then actually a small number of people are talking about, the rest of them are just reading something and, unfortunately, citizens need to know that the government MPs are not trying and are not trying to get into the essence of the problem that the people in Serbia have. The stories and problems that have existed for decades, so you haven't produced them, but you who said seven years ago that you would change everything in Serbia better and that you would resign to all functions if everyone in Serbia did not live better within six months. You know, we haven't forgotten that, we'll remind the public when it's even more up-to-date. The problem we've been talking about for decades, which is strange, at the very least, to say the least, the disappearance of children under strange circumstances, where it happens to turn out to be about selling children, about white slavery, that there are still many missing children in the maternity ward, who may never be resolved, and we're not saying that any such demand is what should result in a positive result, but nothing is done to resolve these important things in this society and this country. You're talking about Natalie, you're talking about the number of children, and you're talking about it, of course, only in the media, the minister in charge, etc. when you need to be photographed on television, and when you need to discuss these important things here, then you dear fellow ladies and gentlemen are not interested in what the problem is in the state of Serbia, and the problem is children who unfortunately, 300,000 children in Serbia do not have a third meal, many families with more children living in cardboard boxes without any conditions, many children walking to school do not know how many kilometers. You don't want to get involved that, we end up with this sentence, we discuss here, and we try together to find a solution to the problem, not to find out from the papers when some problem is escalating somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62332	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has, from 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP, Ms. Radet, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62333	Long before McAllister lined you up and ordered you to behave and what decisions to make at the level of the state, we from the Serbian Radical Party asked that this member of the Law on the selection of MPs, who would, in fact, return the constitutional provision to the law by which every MP is free to make the mandate available to the party whose lists he was elected. You're just denying that right and that freedom to the MP. You're doing worse, actually, government. I started at the beginning of this session, and here, I will now use it to remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has illegally intervened in the electoral process instead of having any problems and any changes to the laws and regulations of others relating to the elections to be discussed here, you have completely removed the election process from the National Assembly, and where there is greater democracy than in the National Assembly, where the representatives of all the political parties that the people have chosen in this or that percentage. You won't do it, you've allowed McCallister to line you up and Milan Antonijevic and the rest of the people in Serbia. You are now trying, in fact, the Government, when I say you, I mean, of course, the full power, you're trying to do something that will come back to you, and unfortunately to all of Serbia. Instead of talking here about this proposal and the formation of a supervisory board, so as to take care of how much media there will be, above all, on public service paid by all Serbian citizens. You don't care about any of that. You still think it's gonna happen that way, it's gonna get rid of itself. We are telling you, you will have serious problems regarding these spring elections because you are trying to do something that is absolutely contrary to the law and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They say what the government has ordered the commission to vote, they will immediately upload the results of the election, or the minutes, but when they previously correct logical mistakes. It can't do that. It is good that a decision will be made to appear on the Republic Election Commission's website the minutes when it reaches RIK, but the record must be as it came from the field. You know what a logical mistake can be? If, I don't know, someone gets it, says -- the election board got 100 tickets, 50 people voted, we miscounted that 31 was not used and 20 invalids, and then your half-written board presidents add that it's 100, but it's 101. These mistakes can be corrected logically, but can't correct the record to go public. The record must go to the public exactly as it would say, raw material as it came from the polling station. I call on you once again, and I am finishing this sentence truly, agree, consult your bosses, let us in the National Assembly, until it is too late, discuss everything that is related to the future elections, which is in any way controversial, and first of all accept that we are talking about our proposal to amend the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62334	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstention – has, from 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Putting Off the Force of the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. She's not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – no one with abstention – has, of 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62335	National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic proposed that the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62336	For more than 20 years, it has been the torture of Serbs in Montenegro under the mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic, and despite the adoption by the Assembly of more than 200 votes in 2007, which allows Serbs in the displaced to receive a request and accept Serbia as their queen, citizenship. The mafia regime of Milo Djukanovic makes it impossible for Serbs in Montenegro. It escalated even more the moment it was discovered that one of the politicians there who pleads as a Serb, Predrag Popovic has Serbian citizenship along with Montenegro's. When the passport was taken away, the driver's license was prevented from voting, as was the mayor of Kotor, as well as many other Serbs under the torture of such a regime forced to seek Serbian citizenship urgently, because many of them Serbs, who live there, who are threatened with layoffs, who work in the state administration, do not know what the day brings, and what night under such a regime. That is why we propose that this member of the law be changed and that this procedure be speeded up. There is no need for Serbs who apply for citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, who experience Serbia as their country of origin, and over 50,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska have until now applied for Serbian citizenship, waiting for more than a year, a year and a half and even two years. In six months, it's enough to administratively frame a complete process, as far as getting citizenship is concerned. Whoever brings the orderly documentation, therefore, a copy of the birth certificate, signs a statement, submits a statement to the competent unit of the MUP in Serbia or consulate in Banja Luka or wherever there is a chance, also refers to Serbs who live and around the world. It is necessary to process these cases more quickly, except in cases where it is clear that, due to other illegal activities or security checks carried out by the competent state authorities, they cannot gain citizenship of the Republic of Serbia so quickly. That is why I call on you today to accept this proposal and that within six months, if the documentation is well submitted, we give the opportunity for all of them to get citizenship.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62337	Before we continue our work, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, his Excellency, Mr. Justin Muturi, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Kenya and members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Kenya, who are following a part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. Thank you. I'm putting in a proposal for a Member of the Parliament of Natasha Sp. Jovanovic to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62338	National MP Ruzica Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the transplantation of human organs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Rose Nikolic is not present. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for five, against none who are abstentioned, there is none of the 148 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62339	National MP Filip Stojanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Border Control, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Filip Stojanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62340	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on amendments to the Law on Border Control and I demand that it be included in today's session agenda. All know that the most important characteristics of each country are its internationally recognised borders that separate it from other countries or its neighbours. The state of Serbia has defined internationally recognised borders towards its neighbours. The Serbian state's borders towards its southern neighbour, i.e. Albania, have been defined by UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Unfortunately, Serbia is one of the few countries that has violently kidnapped part of the territory by 19 NATO pact states, as well as some other states that want to legalise the state of occupation and to declare AP KiM's borders according to the rest of Serbia as international borders. We in the SRS are aware of the circumstances under which this occurred. We don't blame the current regime for the situation in which KIM was found, but we blame it for something else. Namely, the leading authorities of the Republic of Serbia must constantly insist on Resolution 1244, which guarantees the integrity of the state territory of the Republic of Serbia. But so far, we have not seen this regime insist on Resolution 1244 and we find that inadmissible. I remind you that, under this Resolution, Serbia has the right to border towards Albania, to deploy 1,000 members of its security forces. As a man who was born on KIM, who spent his entire life down there from violent exodus, I will always ask my regimes to insist on respecting Resolution 1244. This resolution guarantees the integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and has no talk of any division and demarcation, that is the position of all Serbs with KIM. This, a team before the international circumstances slowly change for our benefit, I am convinced that we will not wait long for the day when KIM will be re-integrated with the rest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there should be no compromise on state territory while all other topics need to be discussed with Albanians. As you can see, the Republic of Croatia shows hidden aspirations towards the part of our territory located on the left bank of the Danube. On this point, the regime must be uncompromising, not agreeing to any negotiations or arrangements on this subject. That is why I believe that by adopting such a law as I have proposed, it will create clear assumptions and necessity as soon as possible to put the occupied part of our territory under our full control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62341	Thank you, colleague Stojanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 132, total – 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Tomislav Ljubenovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62342	Thank you, Chairman. I submitted a bill of law and amendments to the Financial Support Act with children. The Republic of Serbia has faced major demographic problems in recent decades, and one of the biggest demographic problems is an insufficient number of newborn children, the number of newborns is much lower than the number of deaths, leading to a negative economic growth, a large number of young people leaving the country are reported, and an extremely increased share of the old population in the total population. The economic situation in the Republic of Serbia is getting worse and many families are facing a lack of funding, which directly reflects the birth and raising of children. In view of this fact, it is necessary for the state to urgently take all measures to create conditions for improving the financial situation of families with children and to provide security in terms of giving state to future parents. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Financial Support Act with children would significantly affect the resolution of one of the biggest demographic problems, which is an insufficient number of newborn children. As regards the financial resources needed to implement this law, the SRS's view is to make a permanent redistribution of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus finally stop funding various NGOs and define that money for the payment of child and parental allowances, as the SRS proposes these amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to the family with children. The adoption of these changes and additions would create a basis for encouraging the birth of more children and for financial empowerment of families with children, which would motivate parents to stay in Serbia and stop the trend of mass departure from Serbia. We are witnessing the daily departure of entire families from southern Serbia from Jablanic, Pcinjska district, young people leaving, young married couples with small children and those who leave will certainly not return. But all efforts need to be made to keep those who are there, and to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62343	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 138 of the total of 149 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dubravko Bojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Dubravko Bojic want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my bill on psychoactive substances refers to the destruction of those psychoactive substances that are not for further use, which reads: "If there is a period between the seizure, i.e. The seizure of psychoactive controlled substances and their destruction for more than six months is required to re-supply the entire quantity, and then a qualitative chemical analysis," for a simple reason, to avoid all possible abuses. The second article reads: "The destruction of the sample must take place during a period not longer than six months". Both production, transport, use, storage, storage, confiscation or confiscation, and the destruction of these psychoactive substances must have their strictly controlled procedure and protocol. Dear colleagues, it is alarming that the age limit for drug consumption is getting lower. I'll bring you some information here from a doctoral dissertation on the subject of "Drug in Schools." Whether or not a sample of 1,200 subjects was found to have tried 17.7% of the students, i.e. through sniffing, spraying, tablets, crystal, powder, etc. consumed drugs, that 6.6% was taken or sold and that 2% were already records, so that the schoolyards became sort of polygons for consumption and sales of narcotics. This is easier to find in the immediate vicinity of schools and cafes and casinos and bookshops, meaning everything that promotes and accelerates addiction. Here's an idea and an idea that in some future change in the Law, the objects of this guy can't be near the school, say, about 300 meters, and I think today that border is about 100 meters away. Dealers do everything to get their kids into this vice, so they produce drugs whose visual impression is that. Intrusive, in the form of candy of different colors and designs. The researcher divided them into three groups -- curious, recreational and addicts. Curious people are the ones who, in order to satisfy their curiosity, try drugs, recreationals take drugs over the weekend for a better mood, and addicts are the ones who have already resorted to this evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62345	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15 MPs, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Despotovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Despotovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development of the SRS demand to improve the standard of our agricultural producers, especially in rural areas with difficult working conditions, where agricultural producers would expand the production and better placement of their products. By doing so, they would somewhat stop younger people from leaving such environments, where they would provide themselves with a decent and normal life to feed their families. Strategicly, if the government doesn't do something about it, rural Serbia will be nothing. And everything that happens later, I'm afraid, will be too late. Because labourable younger generations are moving from the villages to the city, and especially mass abroad. It is visible in the middle from which I come, the southwest part of Serbia, the municipality of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varosh. If the tendency to go after a better life outside this country continues, I fear that these environments, which the rest of Serbia certainly have, will be Serbia's elders, if not already. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural and Rural Development Encouragement Act, we want to improve the working conditions and that those smaller agricultural producers get the incentive to boost production and increase their capacities. So we suggested that instead of 1,500 liters per quarter, 1,000 liters are handed over, because conditions for achieving a larger quantity of milk are difficult, expensive food, mechanization and the like. Thus, an agricultural producer with a proposal of 1,000 liters would have a better chance of a premium and a boost. Our proposal is to increase the milk per litre from seven dinars to 10 dinars per litre. Then we suggested increasing the incentive for plant production, which so far is paid up to six thousand per hectare, increasing to nine thousand per hectare. I believe that this SRS proposal is very correct, and it would certainly improve the standard of a Serbian farmer living off his work, not blocking the streets, not harassing his citizens and not asking the government and the president more than what he belongs to and what is a real price. I would also take the opportunity to remind myself of the short- and long-term loans from 2004 and 2005, which agricultural producers took in the range of 40 to 240 thousand dinars, because it was the only form of subsidies of that time. The annual interest rate was 5%, and loans were granted in banks under conditions prescribed by the ministry, with a mandatory mortgage on real estate. Such non-refundable loans and the value of the debt taken at a tight interest rate exceeds 2.5 times the nominal value. Today in Serbia, such responsible agricultural producers have a lot, because this time period, aged 15, has brought them passive land status, and subsidies and incentives from the state and from the municipalities in which they can only dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62347	Thank you, colleague Despotovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 136 of the total presence of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sreto Peric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Exploitation and Security Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Sreto Peric want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our attempts to put aside the law of execution and security have already entered the second year. Maybe we were a little bit and naive at first, and we figured that MPs of the ruling majority would vote for this law, because it is in the best interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, in explaining this bill, we've always used some examples, some have been more serious, some less serious, but still, every single case has its own history, has its own story. Today, I am going to support my argument about putting aside the power of this law by one case against Dragoljub Stefanovic, who was, by the decision of Prime Minister Lavrenty of the Sabbath in 2007, appointed by law, he was, by his own time, an elder of the church in Šapec, appointed to the service in Ljubovije, therefore, in 2007. He recently received a request for execution, i.e. to reduce his pension for the 2013 debt that was created in that church house or the parish house, which the Sabbath church sold to a builder, if I am not mistaken. So, since 2007, a man hasn't lived in that house. His pension will be reduced by one-third until this debt settles, and it says he is sometimes two or three months from 2013. This may not mean much to you, but I have to remind you, there's no small and big money, it all depends on who it is. For some, you know the ones you're talking about selling seconds, it's not big, and I don't know a few million euros, and for some, it's a few thousand. Therefore, this problem should be taken very seriously. I thought we would have your support for this, but then it was clear to me that one occasion the minister of justice in this Government of the Republic of Serbia said that the courts were incompetent, that a large number of cases awaiting execution and that they were incompetent and that the state had to intervene. It is called for 2011, when Boris Tadic's regime, the DS regime first passed such a law on enforcement and security. You had a chance in 2016, or in 2015 to completely correct that law, but you didn't want to. Recently, in a television show, MP of the ruling majority, Vladimir Djukanovic told Nenadu Canko that they had passed the law, so I expected you to have a little situation or, let me say, consciousness has changed and we expect you to support this bill before the SRS as a state-of-the-art and serious party has prepared a new law on enforcement and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62349	Thank you, colleague Perich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked that the agenda of this Assembly be complemented by a point - amend and supplement the Law on textbooks. In fact, the SRS parliamentary group believes that the textbooks our children are learning by are not adequate and are not suitable for the age of ours, above all, at least children. Today, we have a situation to write textbooks each, betray each and every one of them. We need to distinguish between two categories of textbooks here. They are particularly sensitive to national history textbooks, national culture. That's why I asked for the amendment of this law to be made, because these are two things that are most sensitive to every country and every society. We are witnessing today that Serbian cultural heritage is being kidnapped, that our national history is changing, and if something is not done in this regard, we will have great problems in the times ahead. We saw that, for example, in a church in New Hill, an Albanian flag was prominent. It's an ancient Serbian church. Of course, I don't condemn anyone for that, because the state of Serbia doesn't have the instruments to stop these things, but a million other things are taking a step at a step in this regard and slowly taking over our cultural and historical heritage, which is inadmissible. It should be for all those who write textbooks and who are concerned with national history, national cultures, and we have seen that these textbooks are full of counterfeits, unspeakable or wrong facts, all of them should be taken away from the license to write these textbooks and to form a committee that will strictly take care of this. We're not about to be ruled by a monopoly, that one publishing house has a monopoly in this area, but simply, there has to be some order here. They must not own publishing houses from Croatia, Slovenia, which are under the patronage of Germany or some other countries, a monopoly in this area, because textbooks are a serious matter. Our children, the first serious thing they meet in life is a textbook, booklet or textbook from another area, and it remains permanently written in their memory. And if it is allowed to improvise in that area, it will certainly leave lasting consequences for our young generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62351	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nikola Savic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 March 2019. Does MP Nikola Savic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, colleague Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62352	This is another law that I asked to be included in the agenda of this session in order to make its changes and additions. In contrast to the previous law that I have explained and which is more serious in nature, this is about something else, technical matters, indeterminates in the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. Namely, it is about regulating traffic at intersections, who has the championship at intersections, and some members of that law are unarranged, so a large number of traffic accidents were caused precisely by the indetermination of this law, and experts were unable to establish for which reason and who is the culprit and the winemaker of the accident. That's why I think this law needs to be amended. This is one technical thing. There's no ideology here. It doesn't take much wisdom here. It's simple to look at the law, look at the regulations, change things, and this needs to be changed urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62353	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 138 of the total 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuričić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Biomedical Aided Fertilisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 March 2019. Does National MP Miroslav Stankovic Đuricic want a word? Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62354	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SRS, I submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act. We are witnessing extremely poor demographic images of the Republic of Serbia. Each year, the Republic of Serbia loses 35 to 38 000 inhabitants and, if it continues, in 50 years, we will have three million inhabitants less than today. If we add everything to the fact that more than 300,000 couples have infertility problems, we come to the conclusion that the Biomedical Aided Insemination Act is extremely important and that the birth problem is one of the burning problems of the Republic of Serbia. Those who are going through this battle know how difficult it is to collect all the necessary medical documentation to get a commission to enter the process. As someone who went through this process alone, I can say that couples are often misunderstood, that they feel lonely and helpless. It should achieve that diagnostics are simple, fast and accessible, which is absolutely not the case right now. It is necessary to abolish the age line and leave it to the commission to assess the individual reproductive potential. It should be possible for every woman who meets medical conditions to try to be realized as a mother. Also, the law should regulate the issue of male infertility, i.e. to ensure that men are treated for the cost of RFO. Then increase the number of funded attempts of biomedically assisted fertilisation by RFZO, as well as enable the process of biomedically assisted fertilisation with frozen material couples who have a problem with male infertility, as well as couples who have frozen healthy material before entering the treatment process of malignancies. Also, make it possible to finance the costs of freezing and freezing materials. Enable biomedically assisted fertilisation and those couples that have already been made available as parents naturally through or through biomedically assisted fertilisation. Why would these couples be sentenced to one child if a problem arises, or if the only way to get them back as parents is to become biomedically assisted insemination, and such couples are few? This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia under Article 63. This problem is very complex and sensitive and should be thoroughly approached and solved. I suggest you support this bill's amendment due to an alarming demographic picture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62355	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 134 of the total 148 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Seselj, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on executive procedure and security, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 22 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group on 17 September 2019. Does MP Alexander Seselj want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only 22 MPs of the SRS, but also a petition signed by more than 100,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, since 2011, when this institution was introduced into our legal system – public perpetrators, it takes brutal robbery, exploitation and the creation of a mob clan around these public executioners who, we have seen, have, in the past few years, fully supported the state in what they are doing. So, the institution was born into a hunting cartel, and the property of the Serbian citizens in charge, the state is helping, and the debtors, apart from being deceived, are being kicked out of their houses, apartments and other properties. This bill, which the SRS has submitted, prevents such a possibility, eliminates public enforcement officers, and we appeal to launch an investigation into how these 200 and some people have been enriched by 2019. I will remind the National Assembly that while the SNS was in opposition, it was against, voted against and criticised the public executioners, and we saw that today it supports them. Public contractors are a new category in Serbia that extracts extra profits, kidnaps over-indebted citizens of real estate and then sells them at imaginary auctions for petty money, has no morals, no morals, no respect for human rights of Serbian citizens, no respect for human dignity, no power, no single parents, and pensioners in a brutal way, with police support, to throw them out on the street. In all this, the government in Serbia is helping them. This is the biggest problem of every Serbian citizen. This petition was signed in less than two and a half months by more than 100,000 Serbian citizens. Not by putting this on the agenda, the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament does not respect the citizens who signed the petition, and if the SNS and the ruling majority refuses to discuss these things, that this situation is corrected, that public perpetrators swear, they take full responsibility for the disastrous consequences of their work they feel, unfortunately, all Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62357	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 138 of the total of 145 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does the People's MP, Professor Miladin Ševarlic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members of Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for who knows which time I remind you that about 7,000 council members unanimously in the 136-municipal assembly adopted the Declaration against genetically modified organisms. Last time I was transferred to the Declaration was a formal act and there was a law. I did my best, in the meantime, to see what it looks like in practice, and I'm asking the cameraman to zoom in on this. So, from 2013 to 2017, from the total number of import shipments to Serbia, 4.3% to 7.2% were controlled. This means that about 95% of the shipments entering Serbia are not subject to control of samples taken under the GMO law. The number of solutions to ban imports under the GMO law was between one and six a year, everything. Furthermore, we have phytosanitary inspectors who find 20, 30 parcels under genetically modified organisms a year, and the results are much more catastrophic because people who know the opportunities on the ground say that, let's say, there are about one-fifth of the areas under the strain that are genetically modified. At the same time, I want to tell you that the first book of our authors, colleague Tatjana Brankov and colleagues of Koviljka Lovret from the Faculty of Economics in Subotica, published in London, has been verified by their resensants on the generically modified food system and their economic impact. That is enough reason to understand that, at the same time, we were also accepted at the European Conference of Regions without GMOs and our presentation of colleague Tatjana Brankov and mine was put into plenary session at the beginning of the meeting. That is a sufficient reason and thus Serbia has entered 64 territories on which the cultivation of genetically modified organisms is banned. At the same time, I remind you only of the following data - that 33% of milk is indicated in Germany as non-GMO, 27% of meat and processing, 21% of eggs, 9% of pasta, etc. In Austria, this is far more because Austria has long before accepted the "Dunav Soya Group" and Serbia has only enough raw materials to ensure animal feeding based on livestock food that has not been genetically modified. I don't see why Serbia doesn't use that chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62359	Thank you, Professor Chevarlic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 141 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the business of cable operators, the broadcasting of cross-border channels, the broadcasting of domestic advertisements in the content of cross-border channels and other irregularities related to electronic media and cable operators controlled by Dragan Gilas, Dragan Šolak and David Petreus, who submitted to the National Assembly on 12 April 2019. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what I got on delivery. This is the N1 passport. I believe it's imitation, but that state exists. The passports probably don't exist, but the state of N1 television exists. It's a state in the state, in the state. So that's what the state created in Luxembourg, and it's left alone in New Belgrade. This is the head of state. What was it, what was the name of the state there between Serbia and Croatia? It's some kind of joke, but this isn't a joke. This is the head of state, Jugoslav Cosic. They probably think this is a diplomatic passport. He was delivered to me. Yugoslavia Ćosic, the state of N1 which has visas for Luxembourg. These countries have begun to reproduce. Today you also have "New S", an unregistered Luxembourg TV that is not registered in Serbia. I ask you and myself – does this country, or TV N1, have a registration in Serbia? Is it registered in the APR? Is it registered as an electronic medium, as a media service provider in REM? It's not. Does he have a birth number? There isn't. The most important thing is that citizens understand whether N1 has a tax number, so-called. P.I.B.? There isn't. If any legal person, who is wildly founded in Serbia, who has no founders in Serbia, who has some registration in Luxembourg, who allegedly re-emissions the Luxembourg programme here, which is not being broadcast in Luxembourg, so there is no re-emission without broadcasting, someone who doesn't pay any obligations to REM or RATL or any supplier, when you don't have a PIB you can't pay... The fact that they have some company that covers salaries that the head of state, Jugoslav Cosic, has four thousand euros in salary, is the question – who pays if the N1 television has no home number, PIB, if it is not registered, if there is no solution in the APR? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask that these Schools of False States, false cross-border televisions that are used to pump a 500m-euro subscription from Serbia to fake cross-border channels in Luxembourg and Malta, to deal with this, and for God's sake, I also recommend to the tax authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62361	I thank my colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 MPs out of a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 October 2018. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to visits to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of certain extremist organisations and individuals, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Yeah. ) Here is my colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62362	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, extremist organizations, this is a scheme to fund extremist organizations. This is a scheme in which states, which is not her intention, through political organisations, which receive funds from the budget, are indirectly funded by and extremist organisations. It is about Bosko Obradovic and the organization of Dvora, the successor of Dimitri Ljotic and his politics. Dimitrij Ljotic said, his slogan was "We don't need voters, we need fighters". It's just his footsteps that Bosko Ljotic is going to the bile. He was visited here by Ivan Pernar, the grandson of the man who asked in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia - since it was Serbian blood? He hosted the Bulgarian ATAKA organisation here, which wants certain Serbian territories to join Bulgaria, a very extreme organisation. Of them he has learned the trade today, along with Gilas, Jeremic and other members of the alliances of thieves, frauds and frauds, he has himself an extremist organisation. These are bandit extremist organizations, in the Goran Vesic case, you could also see terrorists. So, I warned you earlier, and now I warn you again that it is high time to start a survey committee and help the prosecution process Bosko Obradović and all similar to him, who swings the gallows, bring stones, rip up microphones, turn on the president of the Assembly, wear hangers, threaten to shoot, threaten to rape, etc. If they're not extremist organizations, then I don't know what they are. Here is the way the extremist organisation Dveri is financed, i.e. what remains extremely of it, Mrs Manic, the woman of this Manic, who Bosko Obradovic is charged with abuse of bonds. He didn't mind when he pumped up 30 million dinars, from which Bosko Obradovic, bought an apartment on Dedinj, led him to his friend, and then made a contract and the Assembly paid him, whether he bought it to Mr Martinovic, 35,000 dinars a month, for an apartment that literally stole from the budget, buying it to his friend. There's a whole scheme here about how to finance and launder money, this extremist organization, whose name is Dweri, whose boss, these days, has announced, no less, no more, but the slapping of the president of the Republic. What Zagorka Dolovac and the Prosecutor's Office do is on them, and it's up to us to form a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62363	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 131 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Joint Undertaking for Insurance "Tavo", Kragujevac, who submitted to the National Assembly on 13 July 2017. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the declaration of the fake state of Kosovo, the influence that the International Court of Justice had on this, in connection with the responsibility of former Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 27 March 2018. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 140, of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tatjan Macura, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the legality of SNS donations for the 2017 presidential election campaign, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2017. Does the MP Tatjana Macura want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the Bill on the Completion of the Criminal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Aleksandar Stevanović and Sasa Radulovic, on 8 November 2017. Does MP Aleksandar Stevanovic want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Stevanović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62364	In the last two days, we've had opportunities in the media to hear the story of the brave grandmother of Stevka, who defended her potential robbers by taking the axe and going out to the door of her house in the village around Merdar. If Grandma Stevka had used this same ax in very objective circumstances when the state of Serbia could in no way help her defend her property, today Grandma Stevka would not be the hero of the newspaper, she would not have been the bravest woman to defend her house, but would have been the woman who would have been under criminal investigation for defending her house from a more powerful, more numerous people who wanted to take her property and probably hurt her. Anyone who defends his house from the bandits is a hero, the same hero as someone who with a weapon defends our country in the event of an attack on the outside, the same hero as a cop who defends any property from any bandit. If Serbia is a legal state, if Serbia is a state of freedom and the state in which human life is sacred, heroes should not be tortured, heroes should not be abused. Heroes need to get the Order, possibly support psychologists to get through a terrible thing, like, for example. The murder or injury of a bandit in his own house. The proposal of the Modern Serbian Party is that, when it comes to the limits of the necessary self-defense, it is believed that any deprivement of life and inflicting physical injuries on a robber who has been armed with your house is necessary to self-defense and not enter into the assessment of whether the force applied was equal to the force applied by the bandit. Anyone who thinks he's capable of being in his house, to adequately assess the degree of force used by the robber who showed up at your house, can freely throw the stone at such a proposal. Our bill of law, so I say once again, affirms the integrity of private property, the incomparability of home, the integrity of the protection of life. Also, we've figured out just for example in Grandma Stevka, that maybe we haven't submitted a completely adequate proposal and in the next bill we'll also have another item when the necessary self-defense isn't proven, and that's when you get a group of unarmed people into your house without your call, and every self-defense will be considered necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62365	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vladimir Djuric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Vladimir Djuric, Tatjana Macura, Aleksandar Stevanović, Ljupka Mihajlovska and Nemanja Radojević on 23 September 2019. Does MP Vladimir Djuric want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62366	Thank you, Chairman. The next year, the election year in Serbia and these days in public, are the ongoing talks between the authorities and the opposition with the intervention of the NGO sector to agree on electoral conditions, which would help these elections run into a more democratic and inclusive atmosphere and the Modern Serbia Party actively participates in all these attempts to achieve the best conditions for holding fair elections. Bransa, who we all belong to here, is in public with quite a bad voice, and many citizens have doubts about the honesty and correctness of the conditions under which the elections are held. Two-thirds of citizens doubt the regularity of the electoral process. That is why it is of paramount importance to raise citizens' confidence in the political system, and we think that the system of funding political parties is one of the topics on which politicians must gain the elected trust. Unlike perhaps some others, we do not think that the primary topic is the issue of media laws, but that just financing political activities is the number one issue, because the influence on the media is just being done with financial channels and financial pressure methods, which is why the Anti-Corruption Council, even at the time of the late Verica Barac, was written when it analyzed the financial pressures of the political system on the key media's editorial policy in Serbia. We therefore proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities. First, that the public would be aware of the fact that our political system and parties in it are dominantly funding from public sources with budget money and that this is quite fine, given that this situation is also in more than 80% of the OSCE countries, so the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, which also belongs to Serbia. In order to achieve more fair electoral conditions, we have proposed several measures. The right measure is the redistribution of budget money in favour of local levels of elections and local self-government, because the money that local political organisations receive is insufficient even for the elemental survival, while political organisations at national level receive extremely large money for the won-on mandates, thus centralising political power and moving away from citizens at the local level of government. The second proposal is to reduce total budget cuts and our bill approximately predicts budget allocations for the elections to be about 2m euros less. The third key proposal is to equalise the amount of money that participants in the election game can put into the campaign. First, to ban the use of money intended for regular work in the election campaign, because it is the money that was won for the previous result in the previous election game and it is not fair to enter that money into the ongoing election campaign. So these are some basic suggestions. This would be accompanied by a proposal to limit the total cost of the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62367	Thanks, buddy. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 142 MPs out of the total 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 10 May 2019. Does MP Bojan Bagica want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Comrade Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On March 20th, 1999, without the UN Security Council's consent and contrary to international law, the aggression of the largest and strongest military alliances in the history of human civilization began on a small, proud and sovereign country. Those who defended their hearths were killed, those who defended their families and their freedom. Our military and police forces from March 24th to June 10th, 1999, had 753 dead, 589 soldiers and 172 police officers. Over 2,500 died and about 12,500 civilians were wounded. The aggressor killed 97 children, the youngest of whom had been less than 11 months old. There are no cities and settlements that NATO bombs are not principles. There are families left under the ruins. So in Aleksinac, the Milic family died at one point, Father Dragomir, Mother Dragica and their daughter Snow White. Under the bombs, life and the youngest victim of NATO aggression was extinguished by 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic and her father Bozin from Merdar near Kursumlia. In Novi Pazar, two-year-old Marko Simic and his dad, Vladan, died together. Three-year-old Milica Rakic was killed in Batajnica. In Vladica's Han, the bomb hit the embraced high school graduates, Milan Ignatovic and Gordan Nikolic. Under the ruins of the family house in Ralja near Sopota, the life of small Pavlovic, eight-year-old Stefan and five-year-old Diana ended. Under a bomb attack at the same time, their father Vladimir was killed. I could list the names of the innocent victims of NATO criminals for a long time. The majority of the data we have are determined during the first year after NATO aggression, as there is a change in government in Serbia in October 2000 and a new puppet power does not pay much attention to the consequences of NATO aggression, but the first time in prison is freed of more than 200 KLA terrorists responsible for some of the worst crimes against the civilian population and members of the military and police. We have witnessed the fact that due to negligence and certain political delusions, we have missed the opportunity to record all crimes against the Serb people after the end of World War I and World War II, which opens up space for various political auditors to manipulate the number of innocent victims of the Serb people, especially as regards victims of the Jasenovac death camp system, as well as the Gospic death camp system, "Poslovno" and "Pago". Because of our relationship to past times, we have failed to record precisely all the innocent sacrifices this people have placed on the altar of freedom. In order to avoid this when it comes to the death and wounded citizens of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression, regardless of whether they were members of the military, police or civilians, we propose the formation of a commission, whose task would be to record any wounded or dead Serbian citizen with a precise description of the tragic event to form a single database and prevent anyone from relating and abuseing the number of victims suffered by the Serb people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62369	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—there was no one who voted 138, a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Maja Gojkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 192 paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; a proposal for a decision to elect judges who were first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of Justice; a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, which was submitted by the Committee for Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government. Does MP Maja Gojkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one with abstention – there was, there was no vote - 17 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – one, with abstention – there was no, there was no vote - 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, who submitted the High Council of the Judiciary; 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary; 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Great Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. Notice of invitation to the sitting pursuant to Article 90(1) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Branislav Goravica, Ivan Jovičić, election members of the High Council of the Judges and Deputy President of the High Council of the Judiciary, Aleksandar Pantic, election member of the High Council of the Judges and Natasa Djelic, head of the Department of Status Affairs of Judges of the High Council of the Judiciary. I ask the MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to Articles 192, paragraph 3. Article 201 and 202 and Article 157(2) respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court, a motion for a decision to elect a judge who is first elected as judge and a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the High Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Branislav Gorica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62370	A good day is the Presidency, the honourable MPs, as representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I want to present to you the proposal of a candidate for the election of the President of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad: for the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, we propose to Dark Tadic, Judge of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad; we propose to Mr. Krstić Milosavljevic, Judge of the Great Court in Zaječar; we propose to the President of the Higher Court in Valjević, the President of the Great Court in Zaječ; we propose to Mr. Drago Janijevic, Judge in Zrenjanjan Martinović, Judge of the Higher Court of Justice of the Mostar, Mr. Kražović, the President of the President of the President of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. For the President of the Business Court in Novi Sad, we propose Gordan Ristic, Judge of the Business Court in Novi Sad. For the President of the Business Court in Pozarevec, we propose Siniš Nedeljkovic, the judge of the Business Court in Pozarevec. For the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Sremska Mitrovica, we propose Ljiljana Komsic, judge of the Chamber of Commerce in Sremska Mitrovica. For the President of the Court of Commerce in Subotica, we propose Vera Mijanovic, judge of the Economic Court in Subotica. For the President of the Business Court in Uzic, we propose Micovic Miljak, judge of the Business Court in Uzic. For the president of the Belgrade Criminal Court, we propose Oliver Ristanovic, the court judge in Belgrade. For the president of the Kragujevac Criminal Court, we propose Vladimir Tomovic, judge of the Kragujevac Criminal Court. For the President of the Criminal Court in Novi Sad, we propose Kozarski Kamenko, Judge of the Criminal Court in Novi Sad. You have received all the information in the materials, honourable MPs, about candidates who include their personal and professional biography. What I can add is that the High Council of the Judiciary, before defining these proposals, has implemented the procedure provided for in the Regulation through authorised committees, by evaluating written work programmes of candidates, and then having a conversation with candidates, which has also been evaluated. The previous lists of candidates were then established. The results of their work have also been evaluated by the Commission directly senior courts and all these results have been made publicly available on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and delivered to the High Council of the Court, in order to decide which candidate will propose to the Honorable National Assembly to elect as President of the Court. If there is any further information that needs to be given, I will be present, and we have suggestions for judges who are first elected. A colleague will make that proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62371	Thank you. The word is Alexander Pantic, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62372	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you a motion for the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office for the basic courts and for the Criminal Court. On the basis of Article 13(3), Law on the High Council of the judiciary, as regards Article 51(1). The Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary, established a motion for a decision to elect judges at a session held on 10 September 2019 and proposed a selection of 22 candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by Biljana Milutinovic, a judge in the basic court in Despotovac, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Despotovac. Mirjana Veljkovic, judge's assistant at the Tristenik Basic Court, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Trstenik. Petar Damjanovic, judge's assistant at the Higher Court in Krusevec, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Trstenik. Dragana Aleksic, judge's assistant at the Loznica General Court, proposes to elect judges for the General Court in Loznica. Miodrag Atanakovic, judge's assistant at the Loznica Basic Court, proposes to elect judges for the main court in Loznica. Ivana Dobanovski, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Loznica. Nenad Lazarevic, judge's assistant at the Loznica primary court, proposes to elect a judge for the Loznica General Court. Ljiljana Djordjevic, judge of the Petrovac Basic Court in Mlava, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Petrovac on Mlava. Slobodanka Trajkovic, judge's assistant at the Petrovac General Court in Mlava, proposes to elect judges for the basic court in Petrovac on Mlava. Marko Ralovic, judge of the appeals court in Kragujevac, proposes to elect a judge for the General Court in Gornji Milanovac. Oliver Billa, the beneficiary of initial training at the Judiciary Academy, proposes to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Ana Buric, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Ivana Karapandzic, judge's assistant at the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, is proposed to elect a judge at the New Sad Basic Court. Dragana Mitric Savic, judge's assistant at the Novi Sad Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge at the New Sad Basic Court. Tamara Mojseiev, deputy city attorney for the city of Novi Sad, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Sad. Mirna Popov Ruzic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, proposes to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Jelena Toroman, judge's assistant at the New Sad Basic Court, proposes to elect a judge for the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. Fuad Zukorlic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Pazar. Aladin Lekpek, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Pazar. Bojan Nikolic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Novi Pazar, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Pazar. Zuhra Ramovic, judge's assistant at the Main Court in Novi Pazar, proposes to elect a judge for the basic court in Novi Pazar. Andrija Boskovic, judge's assistant at the Arangelovac Basic Court, is proposed to elect a judge at the Criminal Court in Arangelovac. Before setting out a proposal for a candidate to elect judges who were first elected to a judicial office, the VSS conducted an examination assessing the professionality and competence of the candidates for the performance of the judicial post. The exam consists of a written test and a written assignment. Assessments from the exams were taken into account only those candidates who received the highest grades on the exam and on the written assignment and on the written test. On this basis, as well as on the basis of talks with candidates, a list of candidates, a previous list of candidates, which was submitted to the VSS, was drawn up. In addition to the written examination, it has also been taken into account as complementary criteria, it is a report on the work of candidates who come from the order of judicial assistants, and on the opinion of the working organisation from which other candidates, who are not judicial assistants, come from. An opinion has also been obtained for judicial assistants from a court in which they work and directly from the Supreme Court. So, when proposing candidates, the VSS had in mind all these objective criteria for determining the candidate's proposal for a judge's office, i.e. to elect a judge to serve as a candidate for the first time. You all have materials on all these candidates. So you were delivered a biography of these candidates and their evaluations from the exams. If you need an additional explanation or clarification, we are available to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62373	Thank you. Col. Petrovic, you want a word as a representative of the committee or rapporteur? (Petar Petrovic: As a proposing representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62374	The Honorable Chairman, honourable representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on behalf of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, may say that this committee, held at its session ten days ago, fully accepted proposals for the functions of the president of senior courts, economic courts, criminal courts and judges who were first elected to office as judges. I propose to the National Assembly that this proposal be unanimously accepted and proposed to the National Assembly to accept all proposals submitted to the National Assembly and to elect candidates proposed by the VSS and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and elected to the functions of the president of those senior courts, economic courts, criminal courts, as well as to select candidates who were proposed for the first election of judges of the basic and criminal courts in Arangelovac. I can say that it is fully respected the procedure envisaged for proposing after a proposed contest to propose candidates for election to the seats of senior, economic, basic, misdemeanor courts and that the VSS appreciated the work of all the candidates proposed so far, not only their work, but their morality, expertise, success in the work so far. A lot of the candidates that have already been proposed here before have been on the posts of the president of senior, i.e. the basic courts, there are plenty of new candidates who have proved themselves to be fully capable of carrying the president's post, both of the senior economic, misdemeanor, fundamental court. When it comes to candidates who are proposed for judges who are first elected, you can see from the material that they are candidates and candidates who have been judicial associates for many years. There are a lot of candidates and candidates who are from the Judicial Academy, so it is fully respected all to propose the right candidates to elect to a judicial office, that is, the first so-called. the choice, i.e. the so-called Three-year-olds. The last point, it is a legal obligation to make a decision today, that is, in the day of the vote, on the termination of the position of the High Prosecutor in the Kingdom, to which the function ceases because he has fulfilled the legal requirement, or fulfilled 65 years of life, and by the force of the law, has to stop his function, to thank him for his work so far, Mr Antonijevic, and to wish him good pension days. Speaking as chairman of the Committee, I would not take the floor again, to say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all proposed candidates, both for the presidents of senior, economic, criminal, basic courts, as well as candidates who are proposed for the first election in the judicial post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62375	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party MP Vjerica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62376	Mrs. Goravica, Mr. Pantic, thank you for reading to the MPs the list of candidates that we otherwise received in the material. We expected some explanation from you, we were expecting a word about the state of justice. We're not convinced there's any problem and you don't need to talk to the National Assembly about it, but obviously, you started to distance yourself from the National Assembly in time, and that's not good for the judiciary or for this job that's done here. You haven't told us that these five months have been the work of the judiciary and all these courts and others that aren't here in the motion without the president of the courts. Do you as judges think that the decisions made in the meantime are valid, legal? Do you think the court can function without a president? If so, then what did you propose to us today to elect presidents? If he can't, then you had to do the same, it seems to me, on 24 May this year, when the presidents were resolved, you had to give us a proposal to pick new ones on the same day. This can't happen. This way he can't go to justice. This way, he can't go to court. What will the people who follow the work of this National Assembly say, where their trust in the rule of law is in the courts, when we have one, I'm free to say, you've let me, that the courts, most of the courts, work without the President of the Court for five months? When something like this happened in 2010, whether it was in 2010, then MPs who now shared the views that we always represent, we do not change and change our political attitudes and principles, when they thought that V.D. The state of the President of the Court, and now there was no V.D. a state, rather than a state of ice, as I would say, that this was used in the judiciary and used to end certain affairs, so that the judges, or those presidents of the courts, would be held under their paws, so that some disputed, strange, etc., court proceedings, court cases, which are written about in the media. You didn't say a single word about it. What they call candidates means nothing to us, doesn't mean anything to us when they're born, they're born, they're born, etc. When we talk about judges who choose for the first time, we're to you, this is, I think, the fourth time we've made an observation that you have to write in your biography an average score when you finish your studies. This is a message from the judge. This is a message from the judges who informed us that this is how you drag some people through law school with an average of six, 6.5 etc. Judges can't be people if they weren't good students and didn't finish college in time. You must allow a really judicial function to be something that is of paramount importance to every country, including the state of Serbia. Before I go any further, I'll only quote two sentences from the SRS programme, where point 22 is about the judiciary. I'm not going to talk today about how we see the judiciary organization, but I'm going to read these two sentences. First, only countries in which a completely autonomous justice system is established can fully protect all civil rights and human freedoms and ensure a democratic process and relations, i.e. the political system and the state order in general. Is that how it is in Serbia today? It's not. I believe you know that, too, and I believe you've been under pressure personally. When I say under pressure, I don't think it was that I don't know what kind of brutal pressure, but what to call the phone, to get away from something, not to do something, etc. Unfortunately, it is still present. Next sentence I'm going to read to you so we can continue to participate in the debate. Therefore, the SRS programme, paragraph 22, speaks of the judiciary, including the organisation of the judiciary, the judiciary, the public prosecutor's office and the lawyerry for the application of the model of negative selection, influence and interference of the regime in constitutional and legal jurisdiction, and most of all because of the abuse of all judicial institutes and the usurpation of the act of authority by the holders of certain functions of the authorities, sums up the judge to the mere executioner of the regime's duties and officials of the ruling party. Now, we're gonna change that, and we want to help you change that. It was here, you may have listened and fellow MPs from the government spoke specifically about some judges who appeared on political shows and gave political speeches, going to the political stands, etc. From you, the high council of the judiciary as if it didn't live in Serbia, as if you didn't know what was going on. It can't do that. You gentlemen aren't here just to formally read this thing that you've already finished in advance, which you've already agreed in advance with one or two or three people here or somewhere outside of this, so it's been transferred here, and we and the public have nothing concrete, no concrete sentence about these people you're proposing, and especially about the problems that appear in the judiciary. Is it possible that you are not members of the State Council of Prosecutors, but still, is it possible that you did not talk to your colleagues, say, about this prosecutor Stanislav Dukic? We'll talk about him when the prosecutors are on the agenda. But is it possible that this is so normal for you that he celebrates his birthday, of course, everyone can celebrate his birthday if it's up to him, but that he celebrates his birthday with some suspicious people, not to tell the criminals, that there is also a disciplinary prosecutor of the State Council and a deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, who is also increasingly present in the media as a politician, etc? It's a big problem. In previous discussions, we have shown you problems in the organisation itself, to say in a technical sense, because you have not returned judicial units or courts to all local self-government, and we still claim that it must, that there can be no municipality that has no judicial unit. That's how you let the law be broken. It was brought here, for example, the Law on Public Libraries. Under the law, all certificates must end with a public notary. We have small municipalities that don't have a public register, but worse still, they don't have a judicial unit and then they have to break the law, that in local self-government, the municipality confirms some signatures and then the law breaks, not only the one who did it, but the law violates the one who accepts such a signature as valid, because the law says that such signatures can no longer be valid. These are all our common topics, they should be our common themes. What you are proposing today and these problems that we are talking about and we are going to talk about is the best proof of how bad this is that you plan to change the Constitution, we hope that this will not happen, and that you move the People's Assembly out in the election of judges. What's done now is not good, and more than that would be disastrous. You can't have 10, 15, 20, as far as the SRS is concerned, that credibility that you can decide who will be the judge, who will be the judge, etc. These aren't personal insults to either one of you, but just in principle. We're not a society, we're not a state in which the system institutions function so that it can really be said that there are 20 judges members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and we can trust them. We can't, and I'll tell you what the source of the High Council of Justice says, someone who believes the SRS, who sits with you, but it's over his head what's done. Of course, we won't say the name, because we never do it. It reminds us of what we would otherwise have noticed. You're here today and there's no Mr. Milojevic again. This is the third time he hasn't come here to talk about suggestions, because he's afraid we're going to mention him. Mr. Milojevic has been president of the Supreme Cassation Court for five years and has now extended his term to six months on two occasions. Your Honor, do you know what it says in the second position of Article 144? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It says the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected for a five-year period and cannot be re-elected. It means he can't do it for another six months and you can do it 17 times six months. So he can't. So we don't have a legally elected president of the Supreme Cassation Court. Do you think it's a normal situation? It's not. Not that she's not normal, she's dangerous. How does the High Council of Justice work? You know that, and you may be uninformed, but first of all, the public of Serbia needs to know that. First, to return in one sentence to the election of that President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is also the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and he is the one who, along with you, extends his mandate, because it was not discussed in the National Assembly. That's not good. That's not how it works. It's against the constitution, at the very least, and it's also one of the evidence that we're right that you can't be on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary who's going to burn and burn, who's going to determine who in Serbia can be the judge and who can't. We had that in 2010, when it was re-election, when the judges were elected here, and the proposals were coming, 90% of the proposal came from the office, the cabinet of Dusan Petrovic, the then official of DS and the minister of justice, and we all knew that, we talked about it, mentioned names, but nothing changed. One number of these judges remained, as we named them, the yellow ones still put their feet on those who are now in power, and they show it through certain objects. One number bowed to the advances, and then they do as they're told, but that's not how the judiciary can work. This has nothing to do with you, but it is the result of a political hypocrisy that has been present in Serbia for twenty years, when it is said that the judge must not be a member of any political party. It's completely wrong from the SRS aspect. You're not second-class people. If so, you should be banned from the election. Why don't you have a political commitment? You can't use it at work, you can't be a functioner, so talk on public myths, on televisions, etc. On behalf of some party, political parties, but to have a political commitment, why not. If we had such a clean relationship, then we wouldn't have yellow judges and these judges present, etc. It's a system problem. It's not on your mind, but think about it when you propose along with other colleagues to amend the Constitution, amend the law. What do they tell us inside the High Court Council? We've got say feeds. In what way? One member of the High Council of the judiciary is, for example, from Kragujevac. What will happen in the Shumadian County, who will be the President of the Court, who will be elected for the first time, etc.? Nobody interferes. That one's bright and he's dressin'. He determines whether his brother-in-law, his party friend, I don't know if I, his daughter-in-law, son-in-law, etc., and you're just voting and you've brought down the High Council of the Judiciary. In the National Assembly, it is not possible to do so, at least in public, that the majority of the congregation will vote today. You know, 126 votes, 126 of these green buttons can vote Earth is a flat plate. The only thing that can't happen is it becomes a flat panel. We have no illusion that what we're telling you is going to change something in the final vote. The assembly majority vote as agreed, but at least here you can hear, can hear, can hear, can hear, can hear... You haven't told us either of us, who the candidates have appeared for these functions that we choose to do today. Why, of the four candidates who applied for Novi Sad, does it seem to me, for the basic court, this particular one, whom you suggested, has been elected? How much better is he than these others? Why don't we have a candidate for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Zrenjanin? Two judges, both employees there, both applied. On these some of your tests, one of them got four, one of them got an A. Why aren't they here? Because you're planning on what we told you last time that it's not good to be a judge, you're planning it now for the President of the Court, so you're waiting for a little more time to pass, so she's not just elected, so President immediately. We don't talk about order when we say something. We're talking because we have reliable information and information that we're telling the truth. They also say, a reliable source, that what you're delivering to us and saying that there's a candidate on that committee of yours, although, believe me, that's so general, those criteria mean nothing to you, you're assessing whether anyone's worthy. You say he's worthy there, and I say he's not. You ask what, and I say, first you say what is. You don't have any particular reason why you are, and what you're not always able to find. They say, in fact, when I say, that the public wouldn't understand it yourself if we were talking about something like that, the women at the market say, no, when I say, I'm talking about a source from the High Council of Justice who delivered the data to the SRS. You're changing grades. When based on these general criteria there, the candidate gets a four, based on everything that you estimate, because that's where someone's real, I guess, that commission, so it says four, and then you say, e, it goes in front of the Parliament, it has to be five. Because, like, what they're going to say in the National Assembly and then you change it and there's an "A." That's just not possible. We've been reading, say, about the President of the Court of Commerce in Nis, you know that the media talked about him being involved in some counterfeiting, some criminal act, changing the plates on the car, a pretty serious counterfeit, and you're proposing him to us again as the President of the Court of Commerce. How will he be the head of the Court of Commerce who deals with such matters? How? Who can he tell there, which judge, which citizen, which representative of the company that comes there? What he's going to say - I'm sharing justice, and it's like the President of the Court. Well, you can't do that. It really can't do that. You have proposed for the President of the Supreme Court in Smeder's former wife, who has been President of the court so far. And do you know what she's famous for? You can't possibly not know, the whole of Serbia knows. That lady judge tried the Index affair. This woman, the judge, was hiding the items and keeping the items in the drawer until old age. And such a person is credible to you, and someone like that you say will be the President of the Court and that the majority of the congregation will accept it. Gentlemen, this, and I am speaking first of all to fellow Members of Parliament who, here you see for yourself, as last year's snow is interested in the problem of the judiciary. They're not there, and they're either on the phones or they're talking. The assembly majority aren't in the O.R. when the presidents of the court are elected. Now, that's the problem, gentlemen, which leads to the situation that our media and front pages are filled with affairs from courts and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62377	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62378	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the debate on the choice of judges and the election of the President of the Courts is always linked to the organisation of the third, the judicial branch of the authorities, is linked to the efficiency of the courts, the degree of independence and the expertise of the employees in the judicial authorities. It is obvious that there is a will and commitment to bring the rules into line to ensure the stabilisation of the system, to work towards strengthening the independence of judges, and to provide conditions for their continued improvement. On the other hand, our request should be to treat judges with integrity and security, in line with Serbia's legal order. I do not have to point out the importance of the EU accession process in chapters 23 and 24, and the independence of the judiciary is one of the key areas in this process. Independence implies a guarantee that the course of court proceedings will not, under any influence, stray from the professional and professional pathway. Thus, the independence of the judiciary is not by itself a goal, nor is it the purpose of creating a protected layer of justice-holders. Our Constitution contains a guarantee of judicial independence and predicts that the judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that the courts are independent and independent in their work. The UN Charter states that all members have stated that necessary conditions should be created for maintaining justice and achieving international co-operation in the area. Also, the Council of Europe's recommendation stresses that independence of the judiciary provides every person with the right to a fair trial, and therefore it is not the privilege of judges, but a guarantee of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms that enables each person to trust in the judicial system. Both principles are directed by Member States to provide and improve judicial independence, and therefore they must be accepted by both judges and lawyers and public opinion, but also by representatives of the legislative and executive authorities. The duty of all institutions is to respect the independence of the judiciary. On the other hand, the judiciary is expected to handle cases impartially, based on facts and within the framework of the law, without any restrictions, incentives or pressure. Requests are often made to judges to end proceedings as soon as possible. Such demands must not affect the creation of a public image that the most important criterion is the speed of judgment. It is therefore necessary to establish a balance between citizens' right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the right to a reasoned court ruling. The fact is, in recent years, more has been done to ensure that the old items are resolved as soon as possible and that the decision-making deadlines have been put into the desired frameworks. In any case, the aim should be to be a quality trial and a quality judicial decision, with reasonable efficiency in the course of action. It is very important that we all work to improve working conditions. Among other things, the improvement of technical conditions for the functioning of courts, judges, their assistants and advisors. It is also necessary to ensure that judges are trained and perfected for all areas of law and for all areas of importance for the application of rights. The judge must be expert and improve his skills. It is important for the judge to receive detailed, thorough, diverse training, primarily with regard to the necessary skills to perform his duties as judge. This is exactly the kind of training that is important for the independent and efficient doing of work. These characteristics of the work of the judge are recognised as such in all international documents containing standards in the field of the judiciary organisation and constitute a cornerstone of quality justice. I am sure that with good decisions we will constantly improve the environment in this area and that the efficiency of the judiciary will be the result of the quality system, the expertise of the judges and their responsible attitude towards work. I suppose these days we will choose candidates for the presidents of the courts and judges in cities and municipalities in Serbia. They, above all, need to believe in themselves, to perfect their knowledge and not lose their sense of others and to cultivate a sense of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62379	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is held by the deputy president of the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasant Party, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62380	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, our duties and duties are special. The Assembly is the highest authority in the country, and a special authority. It is made by special people chosen directly from citizens, whether on election lists, proportional or majority systems. Anyway, we're known to citizens as elected representatives. Our responsibility is great. The first problem is that there are no public privileges to be discussed with that responsibility. I don't think there's a parliament in Europe and a world where MPs have less income than those who choose them or name them. It's only in Serbia. Today we probably choose those who have three times the income, and I'll dare say, three times the privilege and whose function is constant, so with three times the salary. That doesn't make sense. With our work comes responsibility. Then the ones we choose, first elected to office, the presidents of the courts, break the law. For me, it's illegal for a judge to break the law, unforgivable, but to break the law and the Constitution and remain a judge, it's unacceptable for me. It is unacceptable for me that those who control their work and who are obliged to resolve them, I find it unacceptable for them to remain in office. Whoever missed sanctioning the judge who broke the law can no longer sit where that judge is being monitored, supervised and controlled. What does the Constitution of Serbia say? Article 102(2) - The MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility. He can't be called to criminal or other responsibility. Invited to criminal or other responsibility for the opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of its parliamentary functions. In the performance of his parliamentary functions. We don't just do it in the O.R. But, look at the wonders. This provision of the Constitution does not apply to all. We have the Law on the National Assembly, Article 38(2) says – for oral or written opinion or voting in the performance of its parliamentary function, the MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility. Now, when the judge breaks the law and the Constitution, and he applies to all the citizens and MPs, except me, and when I complain to those who need to evaluate the work of that judge, nothing happens, it doesn't matter. The constitution and the law apply to me whose responsibility is far greater. The judge broke the law, nothing to anyone. Break the Constitution, no one. You have an entrance, when you pass, from your right, the creator of Serbia's modern state. You have Emperor Dushan on your left. Take a look at him. Take a look at him, all of you who pass by and enter the congregation. He's holding something here. He's got a book, he's got the Law. What's he got in his left hand? Hold the cannon, hold the force, hold the power that the Lawman will enforce. He says, "If you do not obey the law and the law, I will apply the power and the power to obey the law, that the Constitution and the laws may be observed." The power without justice is tyrantic, that's a saying. Justice without power is nothing. We in a few situations have exactly that, justice without power. Why would someone let that happen? Probably because some of our judges are members of the D.S. Prosperity Department. Like -- it's too mild a term, Mr. Martinovic, like. What they did in 2009 and 2010, we can't do. I am one of those who is not in favour of constitutional amendments, to allow such a judiciary to be completely independent of us. They're too independent anyway. I'll give examples, Judge Majic. The high council of the judiciary condemned me for my performance, possibly also by my colleague Martinovic. Because I've been commenting on a verdict that's a few years old. He says I shouldn't have commented on the verdict. Judge Majic is going to a politically engaged show at Olje Beckovic's. The moment he entered a politically engaged show, he stopped being a judge. He, the people's expression, was disturbed by the judge's office. That's what you ask every peasant, he'll tell you. He didn't do anything to me, he did to your profession. When he attacked the assembly, there was no problem. No one from the VSS has stepped in defense of parliament. They say -- people, we can't, we can grade laws, proposals, etc. at the seminar. At court professional seminars, it is not controversial, but we cannot comment on the bill's proposals in politically engaged shows, which Majic did. Now, as far as this judge is concerned, he's established an NGO that's funded by who knows where. There are stories of funding someone from Kosovo's fund, with some backup. It would be fine if that justice research center of his showed what's going on. Imagine now, if we started an NGO and now, like that, the tycoons order laws, we adopt and say -- the money comes to NGOs, we have these projects and we take some money and we say -- you know what, no, we're not, it's an NGO, it's for projects, it wasn't for us. That's how Judge Majic received the money. His centre, whose head or whatever he is, is in which lawyers and prosecutors and judges are involved, so there was a conflict of interest in the Novakovic case. I guess there was a judge who also tried Mr. Novakovic's lawyer, who defended him. Very nice. You can do anything when you agree. Now, Judge Majic has freed 11 terrorists, I do not forget, who have killed 80 Serbs, non-Albanians, by the method of taking the soul lightly. Those 80 men and 250 tortured, 80 executed, obliges me to take it out. I'm not just a representative of the living, I'm a representative of those dead who can't defend themselves. Not only can Serbs be criminals, but everyone else can be flowers. I guess the Serbian victims also have the right to tears and justice. And that's what I'm looking for. The fact that Judge Majic is not looking for her, and Hadziomerovic, that's the problem of the judge, the judiciary, that's the problem with your esnaf. It's not mine. It's mine to defend the victims from both Albanians and your decisions. They had the right to have their criminals sanctioned, they were freed by an appeal decision. So, they were sentenced twice to 100 years and more in prison and then released by Judges Majic and Hadziomerovic. They said that there, it was done after the Kumanovo Agreement, so like them, they can't be convicted. Now they can't be convicted anywhere, and then I say it's illegal and the VSS has marked me that way. Me and Martinovic, but look at the wonders, I didn't say it was an illegal decision. I respected the VCC decision, which found it illegal in the matter of the verdict, that there was a violation of the law by the judges, adopted the protection of legality, but the Albanians could no longer be tried. Because the regulation says, when legal protection is adopted, when it is at the expense of the state, there is no new trial. That's how the combination between the D.A. and the courts was made. Judges Majic and Hadziomerovic got rid of this one, and the prosecution has boxed the decision of the VKS, whose judges are also sitting in the VSS, which, behold, condemned me even though they, in their conclusion, stated that Judge Majic and Hadziomerovic broke the law, to the harm of the damaged, in favour of the KLA terrorists. I brought it up. Judge Majic went from study to study some TV. No one called me. So, we who have the greatest responsibility, which the people most spit out, which so far confirms some choices, only we can crucify whoever we want. The judge who broke the law, as other laws say, must be resolved. It's a defining condition for a judge to be dismissed. No, he's not cleared. He teaches moral lessons. He organizes through his NGO some paradusic authority. What's his second verdict? The ignorance does not set free, nor does the judge who judges me, nor does he who is now preparing to judge me. It's a video footage from the Assembly and I in court. Em, I can't be called to criminal responsibility, he attached the video. Watch out, rich. Why did I claim someone got the money? They didn't sue me because they got the money, but apparently, that dirty cop and the bad doctor who took out a foreigner's organ. The stranger wasn't an Albanian, he was a movie, he was a Ukrainian or something. As I hear it, I got a lawsuit. Video's coming up. Let's see what's, well, ignorance doesn't release. What did Majic do? Freed the paedophile, right, Mr. Martinovic. So, after all that exposure, the apparitions, he releases paedophiles. He said he didn't know that he was a pedophile, that it was forbidden to promise children, he didn't know, so the judge freed him with his own decision. Wait, do the victims have any rights? He freed him, as it seems to me, they said, the defendant was a Roma. So, every pedophile has the right to plead as Roma, as in college when they go, whoever goes to college, declares to be Roma, there's no reception, yes, or Vlah, I don't know if that's true of the Vlach, but for the Roma. So, ignorance releases. The question is whether there was ignorance, he did it. Did he break the law? It's funny to you, it's not funny to me, just laugh, this country has the strength, and you're laughing. Very soon the state will come to that position that it will have to be as the Emperor Dushan to show. He'll show. If you don't enforce the law, the state has the power to do it, the way it's prescribed by the Constitution and the law, and we can change both the Constitution and the laws. It's not funny at all. The judge broke the law. Is he cleared? No, he's under America's protection. You all think America is a sacred cow, what America says can. Well, he won't. He can go to American programs with Jesic's Vejvod, he can return services to Americans that their pets are innocent and let them go. He can do it, but you're bound to sanction it. When he's broken the law, not once, twice, there's no procedure to resolve. What is he? Holy cow. I ask you, where are you here on the list of Obradovic, where is Bosko Obradovic on your list? He's judging. He's threatening to judge. Why don't you put him on the list then? You have as many politicians as you want. Majic is a slightly smaller politician than Bosko Obradovic. Is he threatening to slap the president? Is there a procedure for that? What else is threatening to slap Wesic? He can't make it, he's got a hard-on for that backpack with the money. He won't be able to catch up with him, and if he's in metal, he's gonna roll like this. It has to be in large deposits to get the euro to the outside, to pay for riots in Serbia. Was anyone responsible for pulling out traffic signs? Well, this Bastac criminal has blocked your street in Belgrade. Who tried him? Well, my peasants are surprised you let him. We can't start a trial, we can sue, we can make accusations and we can judge. And when we comment, they say right away – well, you want to judge us. No, we don't want to judge, we want to make you judge those who committed a crime or a crime. Are the signs torn? Did the RTS have any saws? Were they wearing masks? Was it stoned? Did anyone at RTS paint all that? Do you have nice traffic signs stickers? What are those riots? Are they threatening to rape the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister? They're threatening to rape, they're threatening to rape. Did they wear hangers? No, it's like... Well, George Vlah comes and says, "Well, don't hang on the terraces. That's where they hanged Rodoljub." He's like the softest. So he should hang himself somewhere else. Did they threaten to shoot like Ceausescu? Did they say we were going to swim with Sava and Danube? No, in the Sava and the Danube, we'll swim to the Sava and the Danube. This was what the Ustashas did, and the Serbs let Sam and the Danube go. Has anyone been sanctioned? Is Sergei Trifunovic sanctioned for his insults, the famous insults he has made here before the National Assembly? Of course not. They are subject to special laws, they are protected. If we were to press for trial, there is no Bosko Obradovic, there is no Borko Stefanovic. They threaten for days what they will do to us when they come to power. They're threatening cops not to do their job. What does that mean? That they'd have their own party police force that, I guess, those people who ran after Vesic. Was anyone responsible for that? It's a bandit's family. It's an extremist bandit family. They resort to terrorist models. Bosko Ljotic yellow told you, quote, Dimitri Ljotic – we do not need voters, we need fighters. It's being created. What are we waiting for? If the judiciary fails, who else is going to do it? What are we waiting for? What are we waiting for to kill someone, like that Minister Draskovic, etc. What do they need to get rid of someone? What happens when a man calls me to come out and kill me three times? The prosecution says there's no sign of a crime. What happens when Djukanovic is told he's going to be burned? That Dasko, as the journalist, West Todorovic, on his profile, said he would be embezzled. They make a decision, they say – it was his freedom of expression. Look, if I'd gone to Zagorka Dolovac's building and said, "Come on out and I'll kill you, I'll wait for you next to the red car, come on, come on, don't be a p, come on out." Would that be a crime, then? And that's how it would be, and I agree, but when they call me to kill, it's not a crime. When this West Todorovic, Dasko, the journalist, writes that he will be embezzled, no, it is not a crime. Watch out for the rich. You know what he wrote now? Now he wrote that he called for civil war and conflict. Will someone sanction him? Of course not, it's a free... etc. Then why don't I just interpret it if it's DS exposure and opposition parties? What does this look like? In the country there must be order, work, order and discipline. Therefore I say, I call upon the Emperor Dushan: power without justice is tyrantic, but justice without power is nothing. This country will have the power to execute justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62381	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62382	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Judges and colleagues, Mrs. Gorevica, Mr. Pantic, with an associate, the SPS parliamentary group will undoubtedly support your proposal, and in my discussion I will try to remove certain prejudices that exist when it comes to your work and proposing candidates for the holders of judicial functions on the one hand, and on the other hand, what I find very important is that each of the candidates is finally being commented on by name and last name. I'm not going to do it today, I'm going to point to just a few of them from the perspective of my personal, professional experiences, as well as what is known to the professional public. When it comes to the criteria you are handling, unlike the media exploitation of something that is absolutely unfounded, which is a criticism of your work because of the alleged non-translucency, I must point to something that is implicitly prescribed by law. So it's about an imperative standard, where it's in article 69. The Law on Judges states: “The President of the Court may be elected by a judge who is in permanent judicial office, in a court of the same or higher degree and who has an express ability to manage and organise work. “ Let’s deal with this other criterion, which is the ability to handle and organise court affairs. Given that I come from a profession that is closely related to the judiciary, I must say that then this criterion could only be attached to those who have such matters within the courts. Organisations of business and management, which are presidents of civil departments, are presidents of the trial department within a reasonable period of time, and so are the presidents of the case law, etc. However, this part or norm, part of the norm, however you wish, must be interpreted a little bit wider, we can not only bind ourselves to them, but to all the judges of that court, where we wish or wherever you suggest, to elect a candidate as president of the court. Therefore, it can also be a judge in which, based on the opinion, the college, the judge, the opinion is proposed, and that opinion is valid because it has a majority of votes. Let's also deal with these criteria, which is the opinion of the court's college. It would have been very bad if you had suggested someone who has a much smaller number of votes by the colleges than some other candidates, because then you would have doubted your work, proposing candidates, and us MPs, have put us in a position to perhaps vote in a completely wrong way, by choosing a candidate who in no way corresponds to the criteria that should be respected when the choice of candidates is being made for the holder of judicial functions. Finally, those two criteria that relate to the submitted written work programme and problem-solving in courts are also something worth talking to, as well as worth talking to the candidate, in terms of an adequate assessment and when all of this is sublimed, because of Serbian citizens, an appropriate assessment is given. You've given the grade and we in the SPS parliamentary group agree absolutely with those assessments. What's most important? The most important thing is that this process is completely transparent, that anyone who wishes to gain insight into any part, any stage of this process, the process of assessing and proposing candidates for the selection of legal holders. Therefore, everything that is media-exploited, which even stands out as your burden cannot be accepted, given the facts that I have pointed out, which cannot be doubted. Before I say anything about the candidates themselves, what is it that awaits them when they are elected presidents of the courts, since I am talking about them now, what is it that they will have to do, how will they face certain problems and solve them and what do we expect them to do? Let's be honest, I always have, on behalf of my fellow MPs, never had one single problem to point out, even critically to what I think is based critically to point out, and to praise what is, in any case, commendable. First of all, the dissatisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with the situation in the judiciary has its basis and no one can be happy about the situation in the judiciary if some facts are observed that cannot also be challenged cannot be disputed. On the other hand, must courts in this regard improve the quality of their work in order for this dissatisfaction not only to be tempered but also to be eliminated? Of course I do. There's absolutely nothing out there that's going to be declared a big brain because there's a problem. There have been since 2009 and 2010, when we had one solar system, when the judiciary was suffering from cancer that it metastasized, and today we feel exactly the consequences of this disease. We haven't cured him yet, we've cured him that, in the healing process, he is, but he's not cured. What's very important when we talk about candidates for the presidents of the courts? I think all those who are proposed today must be aware of their challenges. I don't know if they wrote that in the programs they delivered to you when it comes to their future activities in courts they want to be elected as presidents of these courts, but it is doubtless a serious work and a huge number of problems ahead of them. First, solving old cases and eliminating old cases from courts. Dear colleagues, Goravica, Pantic, I would ask you to accept very well-intentionedly something that I am about to point out now, and I am sure that it will come to your understanding because we cannot be inconclusive about it, and this is that what we are doing right now is by who knows which choice of the president of the courts in a row, and that the issue of solving the old cases remains and that we have not solved it. How do we solve it, unfortunately? Well, unfortunately, we solve it in a very bad way, through false solidarity, through the intolerance of work, through the tolerance of inefficient treatment by the judge. Were we, as judge presidents, metaphorically speaking, in a position to know that our colleague is not working, but we're not going to tolerate it? We are in a million cases. Why, I ask a question, who knows which way we come into a situation to finally root out the judiciary from those who don't deserve to be the bearers of judicial functions, and affirm those who deserve it more than they deserve? What are we doing? I say metaphorical peace again, that's what the presidents of the court do. If one judge is burdened with his dissatisfaction with over 500 cases and can't achieve urgency, he can't solve the inflow, it's a mental noun, then the president of the court does something that's the worst, instead of filing a report against that judge, he saves 200, 300 cases, so he says, "Here, I'll leave you 200 to work, I guess you'll be able to deal with that 200, 300 of his, and I'll give the judge an effective judge those, 300 of his, so you trick him into not being pessy, trivial, bizarre, bizarre, so you'll work even though you're extremely efficient and up-to-date. What's the consequence? The one who is not up-to-date will be able to get the new 500 items again, and they will have 1,000 unsettled, or in the work, and in the meantime someone who is valuable, efficient, who wants to work and who contributes to the work of the court will be burdened with a large number of cases. Is that fair? Is that okay with what's going on in the courts? Of course it's not and it's not going to get in the way, it's just a question of how long will false solidarity in courts appear as something that burdens the courts? How long are they gonna be tolerated, and there's got to be zero tolerance, unloving judges? Well, it's not idyllic, and we're aware it's not idyllic, but we have to protect the good judges from the bad judges. As far as the President of the Courts is concerned, their first obligation is to well organise the work of the court, to put together a bigger one in an adequate way, and by making it more practical in practical terms, in its work, to give the best result, that if there is a problem in the work greater to intervene immediately, but what our parliamentary group has repeatedly pointed out, and this time I will repeat it, dear colleagues, is the fact that the Presidents of the Courts bear the highest degree of responsibility for their courts in terms of their overall efficiency or unhappiness. Well, citizens feel it best, and they know if from the same court, on the same fact and legal issue, two different decisions come out of two major decisions that determine unequal court practice, the citizens cost a lot, the citizens feel it well, and who are they going to call first? Well, it's not the judge or the judge who contributed to unequal court practice, it's the president of the court. The President of the Court, in that sense, is not guilty. He cannot influence the independence of the judge in his case, because the judge is independent, but he is both media and public in front of the citizens. Why when there's no guilt? Why am I saying this? I am talking precisely because we need to pay particular attention to not only today's proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts, but also to all those we choose as holders of judicial functions, because it can't be the President of the Court's fault for our bad decision. If we voted badly on your bad proposal to be someone who doesn't deserve it, then it's a mortgage and a president of the court, because he's got to deploy that bad judge somewhere, and that's a big problem. You do this as a long-standing and extremely experienced judge, which I greatly respect and appreciate, and how well you know. We've asked the same question a million times. The case-law as the top of the pyramid, as something which is a filter, which is a filter, for all judicial decisions coming out of the courts, has its own president. Should the President of the Judiciary be the President of the Court? I'm confident, yes. Why? Well, because function is the most organized, most professional and these criteria that we declare here, which you applied when you suggested these candidates, he is the one who has to control all the judges. Why, then, is he not the President of the Court of Justice or at least if we have an exceptional professional judge who is the President of the Judicial Practice, then he must be subject to the control of the work by the President of the Court and still the decision that came out of the case, in no case should he come out without special verification, or consent from the President of the Court? That's my personal opinion, maybe you won't agree with that opinion, I don't mind and disagree. What is also very important is the fact that we have a situation where, and this is the responsibility of the president of the courts, that we have a leak of information from the courts, so the party gets the information that the decision is made and knows what the decision is, whether it's positive for it or negative, and before it's exported from the court. Who is responsible and should such an approach be tolerated in the work that the party finds out about the decision in which it has been legislated, regardless of which, the defendant, the Prosecutor, the opponent, it is irrelevant, but it is important that that information comes to him significantly before the delivery of the judgment from that court is carried out? Such cases, such phenomena are not rare, they are extremely common and unfortunately we tolerate them again. And since I will also take part in this discussion for a short while, I must also point to your suggestions, and these suggestions are contained in the material that we have received. I must point out that these are proposals that are for respect, which are for respect, both from the point of view of the biographies that are mentioned here and from the point of view of what these candidates are for the presidents of the courts for which they proposed in their work. Personally, I have no right to comment on everything, and I can say that on behalf of Members of the SPS, we support all these proposals because we are convinced that you had their quality in mind when you proposed, which is most important to us. Everything else I've been saying is less important than this general norm, which is that you had in mind their quality. We respect and appreciate it because we are convinced that you had that quality in focus in the first place. I will mention a few names because I am obliged to mention them because from the point of view of what I am doing, and my profession is about the judiciary, I am familiar with the individual qualities of the individual candidates in this proposal. The judge, so far acting as President of the Business Court in Uzic, Miljko Micovic, is a candidate who has undeniable qualities to be elected president of the court for whom he was proposed, which is the Business Court in Uzic. Judge Duško Ilic, judge of the Court of Commerce, proposed for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in the Kingdom, is undisputed to have the quality to be elected as President of the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom. I'll be here for a while. Both candidates from the point of view of the profession respect great respect. Judge Micovic, who started his education, I mean professional education, in courts of general jurisdiction, ended up in the Court of Commerce as a respectable Court of Commerce at Užic in the first degree and proved himself to be someone who knows how to do his job. Judge Duška Ilic, a judge who is not only through education, but also through education, showed himself in the right light. It's not knowledge to know, it's knowledge to give, it's knowledge to give, and it's done in its work. And what the distinguished colleagues, and above all, refer to the distinguished and respected colleague Goravica, and how well you know, is the fact that this quality has significantly contributed to the system of professional training and training of judges, who has promoted the Industrial Court of Appeal, as a court of the republican rank with the unquestionably highest degree of authority in the judiciary and counselling of the Economic Court of Appeal, which is traditionally held on Zlatibor, gives us the right for all those who pass this counsel are good legal professionals, are good lawyers, judges and all others who participate in the work of counselling. Judge Duška Ilic is also someone who has been identified as an interrogator for all those who are in charge of calling bankruptcy managers. Judge Radenko Zecevic, a candidate proposed for the President of the Great Court in Uzic, no doubt with the qualities I just pointed out earlier, which deserve to be elected president of the court. At the very end, I'm sorry that I can't mention all the other candidates because it would be incorrect, since I don't have professional experience like with these candidates that I've highlighted, but I'm sure they're proposed in the right way and I'm sure they'll be able to respond to the task that awaits them in the future period of work. I'm going to say something later that is very important to both you and the citizens, and now I'm going to conclude by once again confirming that the SPS parliamentary group will vote in the day of voting, and that is tomorrow, to support your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62383	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62384	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62385	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are on the agenda today for decisions relating to judicial and prosecutorial functions and the election of the president of the courts. Once again, we have a chance to talk about the situation in the judiciary, perhaps to remember what it was like until 2012, when a catastrophicly bad reform was carried out. We have an opportunity to talk about what has been done since 2012, in which direction our judicial system has been developing, but also about things that should be fixed and what awaits us in the future in this area. What is very important is that we are now trying to eliminate any, or political influence on the judiciary. By 2012, we remember that it was a rule, actually the DS was setting up its party personnel, so that they could influence the decision-making process. How much we can try to eliminate the consequences of the worst judicial reform that took place in 2009, when 700 judges were fired, because they were found inadequate because they were not members of the DS, which later damaged Serbia's budget by more than 30m euros. It is true that even today, these DS personnel who came to the judges' posts after the 2009 reform are under way. I only hope that their relationship with the state and with the citizens is different now, that they are objective and that they are impartial and independent in their work and that they judge by law and justice. The Serbian Progressive Party has not resolved and left no one without a job, nor has it elected judges and prosecutors at closed party sessions at its party bodies, as DS has done. There's another difference between us and them. Unfortunately, there are those who remain the same when we're at those DS personnel, who are still passing through. We have one who has progressed in this reform of the judiciary since 2009, Miodrag Majic, the current judge of the Court of Appeal, a man without a day's internship in the District Court, would now be more, someone who has not made any decisions in the appeal procedure. He witnessed his colleagues losing their jobs until he got directly to the Court of Appeal. His career was marked by a shameful verdict that freed 11 members of the KLA's criminal group from Gjilan. People who committed war crimes against Serb civilians were freed when 80 men were killed masculinely and 260 were captured. There's a question for both us and the representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary-- what do they think about the fact that the judge of the Court of Appeal is the chairman of the Management Board of an NGO, more specifically the Centre for Judicial Research? Is the judge's office compatible with membership in the NGO? Does this call into question the independence and impartiality of judgments? What happens if there's a lawyer in a case where he's a judge who's with him in an NGO, and he's got lawyers like that? Will Majic then overcome membership in the NGO from which he takes the money or will he judge by conscience? Does he have a conscience at all that was against the decision to put in a life sentence for rapists and child murderers? Then we come up with another shameful decision that Majic let go of a twenty-four-year-old man who made a promise over a 13-year-old girl, who remained in her second condition, which is the result of the crime, and even more embarrassing is the explanation - the accused is a member of the Roma national minority, so he did not know that such a law was forbidden, but even had the right to think that such a thing was allowed. I will quote Judge Majic - he was not obliged and could not know of a regulation that sets out a ban on sexual relations with persons under the age of 14, but had reason to believe that his behaviour was allowed and even socially desirable. What kind of message does the Court of Appeals judge send us if he says that within the Roma community, the promise of a minor girl is a normal phenomenon? What value does the Court of Appeals propagate? There's another question, and that's -- how do you think people react when they read the headline in the paper -- prosecutors sit with people from a criminal mileage? The citizens are interested in why they're hanging out, and I'm asking if it's a good picture to send? Is that clear evidence that there's a wire between the prosecution and, at the very least, suspicious persons? Does this affect decision-making in the state bodies in which they work and which they represent? All of these, ladies and gentlemen, are questions for us, but also for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. There are also those who are self-involved in politics, although they are not invited to do so, nor do I think it is normal or healthy for society to turn one court case into political only because the Alliance for Serbia leaders have no other way to fight for power, except by inventing affairs and turning people into political convicts to try to discredit power in Serbia, which they accuse. So we have a situation one these days that deserves an explanation. It is current that employees of the dedicated industry "Krusik" in Valjevo, who calls himself an alarmer, who is suspected in fact that in the last five years he has been illegally collecting and exporting from the factory documentation relating to the business of the factory, which bears the designation "confidential", "supervisory" or "military secret". His computers found documents concerning our military industry and, according to media writing, are now investigating who it all came to. In his statement, the previous lawyer of the false alarmer stated that he admitted to doing it, but then the defender replaces the new one, Vladimir Gajic, a suitable man who will turn it all into a political process, which will turn the false alarmer into a false victim, and the Deputy Prime Minister as the main culprit and target. So, the opposition gathered around the Alliance for Serbia saw the chance to continue by inventing another affair with the destruction of Nebojsa Stefanovic's reputation to strike Alexander Vukic through it, because it is the only way for the political struggle they know. If they hadn't decided to boycott the election, they'd have better things to do. This is how they stick to mixing and politics. They're looking to influence this people whose support they don't actually have. They want to lie to him, thinking he's going to hurt Alexander Vukic and the SNS as well. That Vladimir Gajic is now also politically stepping up in public on shows and on social networks. Here we have a tweet where he says that what he's doing, he's thinking of Alexander Vukic, it's called helping a doer after a felony has been committed. Why are they accusing Alexander Wolfie? Because he said Obradovic wasn't really an alarmer. That's why I call him a false alarmer all the time. And why not? It wasn't because he didn't contact his employer, he didn't, because he didn't contact his authority. If he wanted to alert the public, he didn't actually do it. You have the Code on the Protection of Alertors, where it is well said in Article 20(6). - if the information contains classified information, the alarm can't alert the public. So he's actually in his defense now using the alarming institute, considering everything his defender says on television. The second thing, Gajic insists that the police minister arrests, not only arrests, but arrests whoever he wants, whenever he wants. Such a claim, of course, does not have any foothold in the relevant laws that regulate the police's conduct and the minister's jurisdiction. You have a law on police that leaves no dilemma in this matter, you have a Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is said that the acts that are being prosecuted by official duty, here is the case, the public prosecutor is competent to conduct an investigation, decide not to commit or delay criminal proceedings, conduct investigations etc. Also, the same Code of Criminal Procedure says police and other state authorities in charge of detecting criminal offences are required to act on every request from the competent public prosecutor. Therefore, none of their claims have any basis in the laws or in the facts. The same Vladimir Gajic, you know, was arrested in 2007, as former CEO of the International CG company, along with several other people he was in business with. They suspected it because in 2004, they illegally alienated a plot of construction land of 1.2 hectares in Block 20 on New Belgrade and sold it without an open tender. On that land, buildings of 25,000 squares were built. In this way, the police found, an anti-legal asset benefit of more than 22m euros was obtained for which the amount was just damaged by the Republic of Serbia's budget. So someone who was suspected of abuse of position is now in the role of lawyer of a false alarmer, whom he represents prisoner of the regime. And Rodoljub Sabic came forward on this issue and said Obradovic was not a formally-legal alarmer, but for him he was, I guess, more of a subjective feeling than the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, this brings unnecessary attention to judicial proceedings and media. Instead of letting the police, the prosecution and the court do their job, now the media favoring the Alliance for Serbia speak about details of the investigation, and even invite employees in Krusik to support a false alarmer by standing up against the institutions, standing up against the state and participating in this fabrication of lies and spins. It's a fake picture that the state wants to scare off alarms so they don't report corruption. In fact, the Alliance for Serbia and the association "One of the Five Million", to which Gajic himself belongs, are trying in every way to win over people to instruct them to attack Alexander Vukic and members of the government and members of the SNS. What I left behind for the end, and it concerns these candidates that are ahead of us today, are the two candidates that I want to challenge. So, I challenge Mirjana Veljkovic, a judicial assistant at the Court of First Instance in Tristenik, who is a candidate for the Court of Justice in Tristenik, and I suggest that the Assembly be particularly declared as a challenged candidate. Also, I challenge Bozidar Stankovic, the Court of Commerce judge in Nis and acting as President of the Chamber of Commerce in Nis, a candidate for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Nis, and also, I suggest that the Assembly be particularly clear on the disputed candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62386	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62387	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is it transparent that today we are discussing the appointment and selection of the new presidents of the courts and judges, on the day they gathered together in one place of pain and shame. The pain of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Balkans, Europe and the world, because on this day 27 years ago, 16 citizens were then abducted and killed in the North, the Municipality of Priboj, just because they were members of another religion and another people. It is a shame that the judiciary did not end this case, which the judiciary of this state, our country did not meet all the demands of the family and that at the end of this family did not get what they were suffering as victims as citizens of this country, a tragedy and the right to reparate after what their loved ones had experienced. Today, hours ago, in the North, all the surviving members of the wider families of the victims gathered together, both Serbs and Bosniaks, to testify that crime and criminals had neither faith nor nation, and to condemn all those who, in the worst possible way, took their fellow citizens to death at the time of 22.10. 27 years ago. We believe that they will have the strength with all these changes and the judiciary to face and this case, that the families of the victims in the North end up being satisfied, to recognize the status of the victims of civil war and to get what they are going to get, because they were ordinary workers who were taken from the bus when they went to their work obligations, because they were residents of this country and these cities, people who were trying to feed their children, who were going to earn or receive earned wages, to make the most difficult time, the darkest period of our modern history, somehow survive. Unfortunately, the judiciary did not see this case until the end of 27 years, nor did the victims, whose remains, by the way, were yet to be found, most of them, but not the families of those victims. In the second part, allow me to address and express the satisfaction of choosing today several judges of the basic court in Novi Pazar. For the first time, the judges are chosen by children who have declined in the New Market judiciary and thus in some way break the practice of bringing judges from other cities to Novi Pazar. These are children who were mostly judicial assistants or graduates of the New Market Judicial Academy and we believe that this way will begin to improve the quality of the judiciary in relation to all those sensibilities that this space has. Of course, let me ask, why still, although it is defined by law, is not the unit of the Court of Commerce in Novi Pazar, therefore, the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom, given that we now have enough spatial capacity, because this court has been upgraded and that it is extremely short of the needs of citizens, especially those of the economy, or business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62388	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62389	Thank you. I'd like to use this time to ask for a few answers from the proposing representatives. The first question is: are there those who have not completed court proceedings in their previous work among the proposed candidates, but who have reached the ageing stage? The second question – is there any such candidate among the proposed candidates for the presidents of the courts who were in the previous period at the place of the President of the Court, and that in their court, whose presidents, there were any such cases, as well as what they did against the judges who allowed their actions to become obsolete? The third question concerns... The occasion is, in fact, yesterday's cartoon in the National paper in Nis, which is a kind of message for the Republic of Serbia about the EU's relationship with those who are candidates for membership or should get that status. As you can see, the cartoonist here drew a Serb-Serbian, or Serbian citizens in a folk costume, citizens and citizens, and between tables where everything is reserved for EU membership. I ask you a team of questions – what are all the problems judges face when to judge under the laws that we are quick to pass, as a rule without proper public debate, or does it only come down to Corridor 10, so Novi Sad, Belgrade and Nis, and without any opinions and views of national scientific and professional associations that are nationally measuring for the area from which the laws in question are being passed? Also, how is it possible for judges to comply with such laws as we set out in the EU legislation often not by prescribing the law of a country which could then be in general compatible, as it is said, but by taking from the same laws in different countries of a particular provision and making a legal galatia in which any judge can hardly manage? Fourthly, in most laws, among the final provisions, there is a clause that, under the law, sublaws will be passed under the rule of law within two years or possibly a minimum year. Then how can the law, which is in line with EU legislation, be applied on the basis of the new text of the law and the old sublegal acts that cannot come at all from the provisions of individual members of such laws? I expect your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62390	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62391	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to have this item on the agenda today, because V.D. It's not a natural condition. I think that this was to be discussed even a year ago, but within some appropriate time, the VSS has implemented a procedure for running, calling for competitions, collecting, holding talks and delivering a proposal for possible candidates for senior and appeals courts, and I welcome it. Why do I say that V.D. The condition isn't a natural state? Collaterals in the status of V.D. The president, regardless of having formal powers exactly the same as the Presidents of the Courts, does not fully apply them, with full capacity, which should be applied. What Serbian citizens expect from the work of the president of the courts is for the Serbian judiciary to reach a truly appropriate level that the Republic of Serbia deserves. Of course, you should know, when we comment on the work of the judges in general, that cases can legally become obsolete independent of the will of the judge for a variety of reasons, that in many situations neither the president of the courts has the opportunity to do anything more serious to prevent the legal limitation, but, of course, the populist story is to talk about how there is a huge number of outdated cases. In order to prevent this, procedural laws need to be amended and, of course, it requires a certain insight into which process, or in which direction this process should go. What's very important is that one part of the VSS, in my opinion, put a little aside. Probably also burdened with these many choices and first choices and jobs about all this. It seems to me that the VSS should pay more attention to the way the judges behave, the job, and out of the job. You know, if he's an MP, he's a 24-hour MP and the judge is a judge for 24 hours, the DA is a public prosecutor for 24 hours. We can't forget that we're in the middle, in any environment, of the people that, I say, we're under some kind of pasture, and they kind of set an example for others of how they should do it. Why do I mention this? I note for one simple reason, reminding both the VSS and the distinguished fellow judges that we still haven't been able to skip, hopefully we'll never skip, that stairway to move from continental law to Anglo-Saxon law. As long as the continental right is something that should remain and what exists in the country of Serbia, then all of us, including judges, are obliged to abide by the law or other rules that regulate our behavior, whether on the street, whether in court, whether in front of a court or past court time. So it would be good to move very quickly into the regulation of status and other functions. Of course, a proposal has arrived for the presidents of the basic courts, but when I talk about this, I also think about the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because I said v.d. The condition, unless it's well justified, is simply not a natural condition. I ask the VSS to make sure that as long as the rule applies that any judge for public action must seek the consent of the President of the Court, whatever anyone thinks of whether it is an outdated provision or not an outdated provision, as long as it applies, must apply. If the judges give us an example of allowing themselves to break some basic rules and to still get an excuse from those who should prevent or initiate such behavior, in the end of the day, the initiative to change such things, then we simply have to react to it as we do. The high advice of the judiciary can, I mean, be much more agile to do some more of the things, which is to engage in matters, how can I say, and also pressure to regulate the question of the height of the salary of judges who judge in criminal cases. It's one of the things that's left, which, in my opinion, is one painful point and a wound, when it comes to the equality of all those who bear the name of the judge and have a judicial function. Since time is running out and I want my colleagues to leave a little time, on all of this, of course, about these proposals that I think are very high-quality, we'll make a statement in the voting day, and in this way we'll have one appropriate assessment of how high VSS is in relation to the Assembly and Serbian citizens, and we'll do our job with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62392	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62393	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues, for the second time I appear, of course, with the desire to contribute in the most well-intentioned way not only to the session of this Assembly, when it comes to a very serious topic, which is the choice of holders of judicial functions, in particular the president of courts who undoubtedly bear the highest degree of responsibility. Given that in this afternoon's debate on this agenda, we have heard some comments concerning the election of the President of the Courts, I must draw attention to one fact that Serbian citizens would be able to distinguish between the responsibility of the President of the Courts from the responsibility of the judges. A question of limitations has been asked. Are there cases in the courts where we choose presidents that have been brought to antiquity by the judges' mistakes, that is, where is the limitation of criminal prosecution for the perpetrators of criminal acts? At least that's how I understood the question. Responsibilities for old age cannot be borne by the President of the Court. Responsibilities for obsolescence can be borne by a judge if he has subjectively contributed to obsolescence by violating the principle of a reasonable trial within a reasonable period of time, unnecessarily presupposing investigations that he has put off and so on. If there are circumstances that the judge could not objectively influence, in this situation his responsibility cannot be found, but if there is, then the responsibility of the President of the Court is so much greater that, according to that judge, who has become obsolete in the sense of criminal prosecution or other kind of obsolescence, it is not only criminally necessary that the President of the Court be adequately treated with an appropriate measure. Whether that measure will be the launch of a disciplinary procedure, or an initiative for a disciplinary procedure or something else, prescribed by a regulation or by law, that is exclusively the obligation of the President of the Court. I would only ask that in these discussions, respecting my respected colleagues, he takes care to protect the dignity of the judiciary, and therefore the dignity of this assembly. counterpart Fehratovic certainly did not purposely, without any unwitting initiatives, pointed out that several candidates who are holders were proposed in the new market judiciary, since the holders of judicial functions as judges who were first elected to the judicial office. All I'm asking is that we make sure it's not a new market, pleasure or Belgrade judiciary. It is the justice system of the Republic of Serbia and the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia whose court is in Novi Pazar. I ask that both for the dignity of this house and for the dignity of the courts, and because of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, we take care of it. I am very glad that as candidates for the holders of judicial functions in Novi Pazar, people who are young, who have been affirmed, who have shown by their work and the quality of their work in the places where they have done so far, which are the affairs of the judicial assistants and judicial associates, that they have affirmed and earned the attention of those who have appreciated their work, and the assessment of their work has been, as far as I know, "mostly prominent". My esteemed colleague Komlenski touched on a subject which I will further affirm, and that is the position of the judges, although he focused on misdemeanor courts, I will talk about the courts in general. In any way to curb any influence and prevent the collapse of judicial independence, we must bear in mind the fact that the judges are in a material position. I would disagree in general with some discussions that the material situation is disproportionately better compared to the position of the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just consider one fact that's undeniable. If the average salary in the economy of the Republic of Serbia is 50,000 dinars, and the salary of the judge of the basic court is less than 90,000 dinars, then in no case can we talk about the judge's material position as something that is impressive or which paralyzes the eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, it is precisely these holders of judicial functions who need to raise wages, and why? Because in this way we have multiple effects on all negative influences on the judicial system and on the possibility of corruption and on the possibility of certain lobbys keeping under their patronage anything that binds to the judiciary, and that in any way the reputation of the judicial function bearer is undermined. What is very important is that it should be pointed out that, as I started this comment today, when it comes to the presidents of the courts taking care of the respect of court decisions. I will remind you that today I have commented on a fact that is very ugly, and it is present with us when it comes to courts, respected colleagues know it very well, that we have an outflow of information from courts, that the parties know before their verdicts are delivered, what decisions they are, even knowing how large these courts, which is frantic and devastating, are devastating for courts and judges. If I didn't repeat it and it wasn't a parrot story, it wasn't the only thing that was going on. Something much worse is happening, that information from certain stages of the proceedings is being placed, and then information is being provided to the media from the investigation process, the public prosecutor's investigation process until the main investigation is completed. Is this how an independent judge or greater is destroyed? Of course I do. Is that how you question the independence of a judge acting in the case? Of course I do. Does this judge then become under pressure to make the right decision? Of course I do. Why? Because the media is exploiting everything that relates to the work of the court and the process itself. Unfortunately, we Socialists have often been exposed to various media campaigns, in various ways chicanated, in various ways through the media was conducted literally professional lynch. Why? Because the presumption of innocence was cruelly hurt and because someone was convicted and without conviction, without a judicial decision. We have recently witnessed just such an attempt by a professional link of personal integrity and integrity when it comes to the top of the SPS itself. Why am I saying this? Because only a court ruling can question the court and no one else. She can't be questioned by any press or television or even by an ordinary citizen who has a democratic right to comment, but she can't be abused, and today we're witnessing harsh abuses both of court proceedings and court decisions. I think it's about time you got in the way. In this regard, one appeal and for all public office holders, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Administrative Committee of the Republic of Serbia have made very clear and decidently prescribed boundaries in which a judicial decision can be commented. My esteemed colleague and friend, Aleksandar Martinovic, knows very well where we have set about measures, boundaries, parameters on which to comment. Today, on the street, my fellow lawyers, who are at the same time engaged in politics, but not here, but on the street, comment on court decisions in a very ugly way, prejudicing any verdict, anything related to a court case, including those found in custody to determine the facts and evidence considered innocent, unwarranted freedoms, etc. Is that the pressure on the judiciary? Of course it is. How can he stand up to it? Just keeping the reputation of the court and respecting court decisions, while respecting that only the court can reconsider such a decision and no one else. To be perfectly honest, the media will easily get to any of us, and if we are in any way free of judgment, it will easily be used in the most vulgar sense of the word, and now if we are in any process no liberating judgment will heal the wounds that are thus created, because the trauma remains, the pain remains, the traces of the soul remain. Who's gonna make it up to you? Immaterial damages. Make sure he doesn't. The pain of the soul is far more permanent than any compensation, with far more severe consequences of any media today is the simplest thing to say, so we'll pay for that kind of damage, we don't care if we go any further, we'll use the characteristics of that person in terms of his personality, by showing it as we show it in the media. Will the family suffer, will the one covered by this media campaign suffer? That's not what you're thinking. All of what I've said is going one way, to prevent justice and justice from contributing to a very bad social phenomenon like this. Unfortunately, it's happening with us, and we didn't get in her way, and I think we have a duty to do that. At the end of this presentation, I have to point out something else that relates to the work of the president, because the President of the Court, although I will remind you, in one system solution, we have provided for the institution of the court manager, who has never lived. I don't think it's necessary to exist. I am deeply convinced that this is an absolutely excessive function, as the President of the Court is both both the judge and the organizer of the work and is responsible for the work of his court and the manager of the court. So he sublimes in his function everything that binds to the court in full capacity. If so, and so, then all other functions that represent nothing but one kind of burden, a systemic burden, should not be kept in law, we should intervene in that sense, or amend the law. But that is why the Presidents of the Court must also take care of their employees, start with officials, i.e. state deputies, and judicial assistants and professional associates, where each must, under one - carry out their work in a professional way, responsibly and in a safe manner, of course and in a two-by-two way, for such work must be adequately rewarded. Of course, this is not referred to the High Council of the Judiciary, because I have no jurisdiction in this sense of the word, but one comment that is not excessive, because we are witnesses that the salaries of civil servants and substitutes are very small, and that there is no stimulant in an adequate way so that they would truly appreciate their work and carry out their safety and responsibility, although I am sure that most of them do so. The presidents of the courts can only contribute to the part in which their jurisdiction is, however small. It is that you put them on the job evenly and make sure that the work they do is safe, responsible and disciplined. They repeat only what I have already pointed out, which is, these candidates who have been proposed, since I have not commented on candidates who are proposed for judges who are first elected to serve as judges. We expect them to be able to train professionally during this three-year period, that after three years of their work they will succeed in that so-called. The trial test, in order to continue its function, i.e. the status of the holder of the judicial function, to continue to work successfully, and not to come into a situation where one of the people we invested in, in whom the state invested, who was expected to be a worthy holder of the judicial function, is nothing. So it is their responsibility that this trust that will be given to them tomorrow by our votes, because at least we in the SPS parliamentary group will vote for these candidates that you have proposed, to justify that trust. They will justify it by safeguarding the reputation of the legal holder by carrying out their work responsibly, securely and professionally. As far as the President of the Court is concerned, just one more. All that awaits them is temptation, a challenge. All of what I said with one sincere apology that I couldn't name everything, because it's 35 or 36 proposals, no one will resent me because everyone enjoys support. We've heard disputes here. They probably have a reason to argue. In that sense, I would not like to make any comment, but generally what I think is very important for the presidents of the courts, very responsible, is that in the future, they will try to correct huge problems in the judiciary. When I say try, it means that they contribute, that at least this little shift that has been made so far in the healing of the judiciary is even greater. In that sense, I remain with what I said today, which is that we will support all of your proposals, both for the presidents and for the judges who are first elected to the judge's office. We support your work, we support your efforts when you choose the ones you propose to us, because, once again, your quality suggestions depend on our quality decision, because if you make a mistake in the proposal, then you've put us in a position to make an even bigger mistake. That's why we support you and believe that such mistakes, first we believe that they don't exist, and secondly, we believe even more that they won't be in the future. Don't mind me, since there have been a lot of comments today about whether or not this Assembly should retain jurisdiction when it comes to the choice of holders of judicial functions, on behalf of my friends and comrades, I must point out my position. I may not have personally been identical to that attitude, or in the same way he thought, but it is not necessary to allow the congregation to be someone who is going to be outside of the choice of judicial officials. We should not allow ourselves to get into a situation where judges themselves, because they have huge problems, until all these problems are solved, choose between themselves the holders of judicial functions. We will enter a dangerous trap where there will be much more nepotism, where there will be much more abuse, where there will be many more dangers for the judicial system, when it comes to selecting the holders of judicial functions, because I fear that the quality will then be present or not. As long as we're here where we are and we're doing this job we're doing, I think we're the last filter when it comes to the quality of choice of judicial function holders. Once again, our support stands for you, your proposals and the voting day, we will vote for your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62394	Thank you. Right on line, MP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62395	Thank you. I thank my colleague Negai for this intervention. It wasn't really an emergency for me to draw attention in any way, not to make a separation between one or another of the prosecutions. However, the intervention was because before that, several times we had a choice of judges for basics and more courts in Novi Pazar that came from other cities. We kept saying that there are enough quality personnel in the town of Novi Pazar, in our judiciary that can perform these functions. We saw this proposal today as a confirmation of exactly what we were saying, and it is indeed a matter of quality and brilliant young people who have enough competence and in their work so far have shown an extremely high level of professionalism and moral credibility to perform this function to the extent that the laws require it and to simply gain citizens' confidence. Unfortunately, we did not have a situation for citizens to trust in the judiciary every time, especially because of a certain provision between certain parts of the judiciary, the prosecution and criminal organisations. We felt it on our skin, especially when it comes to some sensitive environments like the middle of New Market. That's why I pointed out that it's very important that these are precisely human beings who know all these sensibilities, all these shades and young people, above all, who are not burdened with either political or any other burden. A good choice and, in any case, he received support from the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62396	Right to the replica, to the exposure of colleagues of Nedja. The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62397	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to explain one more part of the story my colleague Jovanovic mentioned, but, so to speak, it remains in doubt what was my reason for mentioning the problem. I agree, however, that it is necessary to work to improve the material status of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, under number one, and thus also the holders of judicial functions. We all share the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proportionate responsibilities and obligations we have. But what has not been done for several years, for no reason whatsoever, is that judges who judge criminal matter are not equal to the status of material receipts with other judges. So, we created their obligation to act, they stopped being the authority of the administration, they became judges, and there is no single reason, as far as I understand it, and I realized it from the answer last year when we discussed the budget, when we had the opportunity to have the Republic government here, from, I must say, just, in fact, an informative conversation with certain members of the High Council of the Judiciary, that they were all agreed that these judges should equalise material status with other judges. But it just doesn't happen. Why isn't it happening, I don't know. I will now, and this is what I have decided, how much today, tomorrow, to prepare a legislative proposal, I do not think there should be more than two or three members that this Assembly should adopt, and that this is an exceptional contribution that this Assembly should make when it comes to respect and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not been changed. I hope that it will not be changed as was said when it comes to the separation of the judiciary from parliament and the prosecution from parliament, but also in future times. Because, simply, I am still on the stand that only Parliament has the opportunity and the right to transfer, on behalf of citizens as the most directly elected body, a part of the government of the citizens and the right to judge on behalf of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62398	Thank you. The word is Mrs Branislav Goravica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62399	Dear Members, I thank you for the attention and time you have devoted to this important subject for all of us. I'll try to answer some things and some questions, so we don't have to stay if we haven't answered what's possible. First of all, this important issue raised by Mr. Komlenski, although lastly, I have the need to say that the task force formed by the High Council of the Judiciary almost a year ago was delivered to the competent applicant, I assume that this should be the Ministry of Justice, its proposal to amend the Law on Judges which would allow judges of the first-degree criminal courts to equalise themselves with the position of judges of the basic courts, as well as the position of judges of the Infringing Court of Appeals with judges of the Court of Appeals. I don't have any information on what happened to that proposal, but the High Council of the Judiciary has done its part of the job. There is a proposal in writing, and I hope that this issue will be resolved. As regards the objection that the High Council of the Judiciary, apart from the question of the choice of judges and the proposal of candidates for the Presidents of the Court and of judges elected for the first time, is not sufficiently concerned with other areas of the work of judges who include their responsibility, efficiency in work, as well as dignity in behaviour. I suppose dealing with this topic is never enough and I accept the criticisms that are justified, but I must say that the High Council of the Judiciary is also very serious about this subject in several ways. One aspect is the work of the Disciplinary Authorities of the High Council of the Judiciary, which averages against countries in the region to initiate a number of disciplinary proceedings, I say, rather than in other countries and disciplinary sanctioning judges, where there is indeed a violation of those provisions that are legally and provided for as disciplinary offenses, and we also had cases of a judge's resolution half a year ago and a judge, due to behaviour that is not in line with the judicial function. As for efficiency, accountability, last year, the High Judicial Council for the first time carried out a regular evaluation of the work of all judges for the last three years, applying the regulations that governed it and in this sense we will continue to do so. All the candidates for the presidents of the courts have passed the evaluation procedure of their work and all the proposed candidates have an evaluation of the work -- an extremely successful judgeship. This assessment is not determined by the High Council of the Judiciary but by the competent committee of the directly senior courts. Also, all candidates for the presidents of the courts were obliged to identify in their work programmes problems in the functioning of the judiciary in the area for which they are responsible and to put some proposals on how these problems will be addressed. The question was also asked in an oral conversation and was an element of the evaluation of their work. As for judges who were elected for the first time and the questions that the president of the SRS parliamentary group has asked about the percentage of the study, I would personally like it to be one of the criteria for choice, but according to the current regulations, the average rating from the study is not a criterion for selecting and proposing candidates. It's an exclusive grade from the exam, which your colleague Pantic told you about, what it contains, so I don't want to repeat it now and burden you with it. As for the establishment of judicial units and a judicial unit of the Court of Commerce in Novi Pazar, the High Council of the Judiciary has no jurisdiction in this domain, it is at the Ministry of Justice to create preconditions for the work of this judicial unit. Most of the things I said, with the commitment I have to the SNS parliamentary group that has challenged the candidate for the President of the Court of Commerce in Nis, with, of course, great respect and respect for the rights of MPs to challenge any candidate and not to vote for it, I am obliged to give an explanation. Namely, the proposed candidate has been the judge of the court since 1998, and since 23 May 2014 until May 2019 he was the President of the Court of Commerce in Nis. He is now in the position of acting president of the court. The economic court in Nis won the Supreme Cassation Court award this year based on the results of the court's work and this award in two categories -- in the category of the number of solved old cases and in the category of total cases solved compared to the previous year. The High Council of the judiciary, given that this candidate has received an evaluation of the work programme – 5, for the discussion – 5 by the Commission, directly, the Higher Court of Labour – is extremely successful in carrying out the function and results of the court which were reached during the term of office of the candidate as president, on the basis of, therefore, these criteria were proposed by the candidate. I say, I don't, of course, want to derail the right of the MPs to choose who they think they should choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62400	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62401	Thank you, Chairman. I also thank the MPs for their constructive discussion. I'd just like to say a few words about the state of the court's performer, several MPs were talking about it. I can say that the High Council of the Judiciary is extremely concerned that no court will be chaired by the court until the end of the term of office. We have such a situation that at the same time almost in all courts the term of office of the Presidents of the Court has expired. So, before this end of the term of office, the presidents of the court had no position in any court, except in a few courts where criminal proceedings were brought in the situation against the President of the Court, and for this reason, and their term of office had not expired, there was no ad for the election of the President of the Court, and only in those courts and in that situation were the officers of the office of the President of the Court, otherwise in no court was the performer of office, there were court presidents everywhere. We have now come to the situation that, at the same time, almost in a month, almost in all courts in the Republic of Serbia, the term of office of the presidents of the courts has expired. That was one serious and big deal. The colleague explained what was needed and what was needed to be implemented in order to make the choice of the president of the courts. We, let me say, did it quite efficiently and quickly. I can say that the National Assembly has already been sent and has already been proposed in the Assembly to elect 77 other presidents of the basic and criminal courts. It is likely that at one of the next sessions our proposal will be discussed by the MPs. So, let me say that we will round up such a picture very quickly so that indeed in all courts in the Republic of Serbia there will be no state of function of the President of the Court, but all courts have their own Presidents of the Courts. I hope we finish it very quickly and efficiently. As far as the court's responsibility is concerned, I would only add one more thing, that is currently under the support project of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Supreme Cassation Court, which is being implemented by the Council of Europe, but a complete programme is being organised by our Judicial Academy. So now it's under training, a workshop that should cover two-thirds of all judges in the Republic of Serbia. So it's some figure of about 1,500 judges, where judges absolutely need to be aware and raise the awareness and knowledge of all judges from the aspect of disciplinary and ethical responsibility in performing judicial functions. The aim is to raise both the awareness and knowledge of the judges about disciplinary responsibility and the violation of the ethical code. These workshops have already started, workshops have already been held in all four centres, let's say, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. The plan is that by the spring of two-thirds of the judges absolutely complete this training, to say, a kind of training and to be familiar with all aspects and disciplinary responsibility and the ethical code, simply to become aware, to recognize the behavior that represents disciplinary responsibility and to refrain from such behaviour that can in any way expose them to disciplinary responsibility. And for disciplinary responsibility is every unconscious exercise of the judge's office, every irresponsible exercise of the judge's office, any serious violation of the code of ethics that implies and conduct not only in the courtroom and at the time of the court's working time, but also after working time, means, and in their private life, they must behave in accordance with the provisions of the ethical code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62402	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62403	I thank you, Chairman. Obviously, we didn't get along very well. Criticism is not referred to the High Council of the Judiciary, because I am very well aware of the fact that the number, at least indicatively, of what number of disciplinary proceedings against judicial holders is being conducted before the High Council of the Judiciary, which is the number of judges resolved because of the injuries committed and how many judges are in progress, let's say, the process of determining the facts of which the conduct of the disciplinary proceedings depends. But I think there's at least one thing we can accept both of us and be completely agreeable. It's a negligiblely small number compared to what exists. Because you can't know, you don't have the opportunity to access the data unless you're told that someone has been unscheduled, that someone has not solved the inflow of the case, that they have out-of-date cases, that they are dealing with politics in court, that they have political views as a judge, that they are politically acting as a judge, that in any way endangering the dignity of the legal holder. I was just talking about, that such situations are too much compared to the number of procedures initiated. For such a thing, the presidents of courts must continue to make sure that in their courts they recognize those who do not do their job properly, who threaten the dignity of the court and the dignity of the holder of the judicial office. That was the purpose of my discussion, and I think we're completely in agreement and we don't have any cohesion at all. You, of course, continue as you do and so far, we will have no problem with your work or our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62404	Thank you. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62405	Mrs. Goravica, there is no legal obstacle to writing in these arguments what is the average study for each candidate. You have no obligation to write when someone is born and what year is completed by the university, you have under certain pressure by some of the authorities of the Council of Europe laid down a rule on the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of the work of judges and presidents, but you could have entered all of this in that rule, here you are saying that you agree that it would be good to have an average in your studies, the law does not say - it cannot be entered. So, don't, you're a judge, you take care when you comment on what the law allows and what it doesn't allow. Again, you have praised these candidates very much now in this subsequent address of yours, the candidates for the presidents of the courts, but it is not exactly that condition. There is no court in Serbia where if we were to push the max to the end, we could say -- in this court, it's all so brilliant that one of these judges can be the judge. Right? That's right. How much is it in courts, now that we've done an analysis, if you'd just give us that analysis, how much, say, money from the budget goes through every court to pay off to the parties by the Constitutional Court's decision of a trial beyond a reasonable period of time? How long does it go here, do you know? There is no court in Serbia where work dispute, mobing, alimony ended in less than five years. It's all emergency procedures. So it's not even near ideal. You have no reason to argue with us, and we want to help with our suggestions. We also appreciate what you're doing, but it just has to be done more and more seriously, don't you act like this society of judges and these daisies who, I don't know what they're doing, I don't even know what the judge's company is going to do, how the judges can have some special esnafian association, it's just not normal. You have to be realistic and objective and say -- here, we propose this and this to the president of that and that court, not because his situation in his court is ideal, not because all the jobs are done, in the context of what we have, this is the best solution, so he's going to run out of mandate and we're going to see what we're going to do next. Just make sure you're realistic and don't brag without a foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62406	Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all errors of the judicial authority are seen by the people as errors by the Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. Let's not lie to each other, we're the first to get hit. So, usually they say – why doesn't the government punish it? In doing so, we respect the independent judiciary, but they themselves do not respect their independence. I set the example of two of Majic's judgments. In one paedophile, he didn't know he was a pedophile, so it wasn't punished, or Judge Majic imagined that he didn't know he was a pedophile, so he didn't punish him as a pedophile, because he didn't think he was aware that he was a pedophile. That's amazing. It's a violation of the law by the judge, one. Secondly, the 11 KLA terrorists were released, who brutally tortured 250 people, in the most cruel way, tired, by taking the soul, 80 people. The Supreme Casualty Court ruled the verdict illegal at the prosecutor's request to protect legality. I also know why - that the system would not be lifted, because in that case there was a danger that the court in Pristina, which formed itself, would not be formed, would be in vain, because the Serbian court decided not to punish, the Court of Appeal should not punish KLA terrorists because it was done after June I don't know what year, and the KLA terrorists committed the most crimes by entering Albania after June 1999. There was a danger that the court would put out of force, the Special Court for KLA terrorists. That's why they came up with a dance that the D.A.'s office is seeking legal protection, the Supreme Court says - it's an illegal decision, it's a violation of the laws at the expense of the accused, they can no longer respond, it's all right, it's illegal, and Majic doesn't answer. So, twice a man breaks the law and doesn't answer. I must remind you that whoever does not punish evil, and this time twice evil is not punished, this new evil is done. I did not commit evil because I comment on it, but the judge who ruled against the law, or broke the law to the damages of the damaged. One more thing, the court needs to protect the innocent and punish the guilty. It happens often with us, and Majic is the best example that it is the other way around, to protect the guilty and punish the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62408	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62409	I thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. In the assembly, I was elected from the Serbian Progressive Party list - Aleksandar Vukic. Otherwise, I'm the president of the United Peasants' Party at the Socialist Movement Club, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party. We have always supported all positive things regarding our citizens of Serbia. I'm talking about citizens' problems in southeastern Serbia, where Nis Center is. I will support all these motions on the choice of judges, as the president of the courts of senior, basic, economic and criminal courts, because I am sure, because I watched the people who were elected, proposed in Nis. Mr. Alexander Pantic is a man who really has great experience. He's highly respected in these courts and in Nis and the environment, and back maybe more than seven, eight years he's a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, so we really trust you. We have confidence in these people that you have proposed for the Presidents of the High Court in Nis, for the President of the General Court in Nis, and as far as the others are concerned, and here I believe you've proposed the best people. Courts headed by these presidents will work, I'm sure, in the interest of the citizens. So, not at the expense of the citizens, but for the benefit of the citizens. Judge those who are guilty. I would be more pleased if we had the opportunity to have judicial units in such small municipalities as the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Meroshin. We used to have basic courts, now we only have the days ahead. I hope we have that in the next period, because these are old municipalities, where they're the moss of old people, who have the need for certain rights, the rights they want to exercise in court. That's why I'm going to once again as president of the United Peasants' Party to support all of these people's proposals, which are proposed for the presidents of the courts, for the new judges, because I think you're doing it the best. I once again say that I am sure that the man sitting next to you, Mr. Aleksandar Pantic, is a man who is highly respected and respected in southeastern Serbia and throughout Serbia, because, by chance, I have people who are judges or lawyers, who respect all of you. One more time, thank you. I'm going to support all these suggestions because I think they're quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62410	Thank you. The word is by MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62411	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear gentlemen from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, Mrs. Goravica and Mr. Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group without dilemma, will support the proposals of the High Council of Justice on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, as well as the election of the President of the Court, and for the citizens of Serbia who have now been involved in the debate, I will only say that today is a joint single investigation into the selection of judges and the election of the President of the Court, as well as a proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the Public Prosecutor in the High Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Dear colleagues from the High Council of the Judiciary, in practice, we usually say – a man is a very good lawyer for his mistakes, but also a very good judge for other people's mistakes. The high council of the judiciary and you who are members of the High Council of the Judiciary, as we choose these judges today, and someone has chosen you, suggested, so I see that you react very emotionally to each candidate. We believe, indeed, in your expertise and in the expertise of these candidates. As a member of the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government, I looked at the biographies of all these candidates you suggested here. Indeed, I can only say that it is about biographies that talk about expertise, about persons or lawyers who are elected to judicial office, but who have been working on these functions for many years. According to counterpart Komlenski, when we talk about the election of the President of the Courts, they have all performed this function, but in the role of V.D. The President of the Courts, so that it is legal to be legal, and the judges elected for the first time to serve as judges were mostly doing jobs in these courts or in another court and their colleagues from those courts, as well as the Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary gave them a high grade, so that we can see their biographies very precisely, then years of study, training, seminars that have been completed, as well as professional practices, possibly certain studies that they have done or programmes on which they were involved. I trust you're not mistaken in choosing these judges. Surely there have been other good and good candidates, but there will be new competitions and other opportunities. It is important that all the cities and municipalities in Serbia really get judges, get the presidents of the courts, because by 2012, we had a very bad situation. For example, I come from the municipality where the court of the first was formed, where we lost the court, we settled under the judicial unit. A large number of judges were then out of work. A large number of judges have been assigned to go to different places for days at trial. This will all endure the judges who work, but the citizens who live there, there are a lot of old people who are reduced to travel to another municipality and 30, 50, and 60 kilometers to exercise their right, and even the right to notary, which we don't have. I believe that in this way, the functioning of the judiciary, the proper choice of judges and the correct path to justice and such dilemmas will be resolved, that certain courts will regain their rights or otherwise regulate themselves. As far as the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, we have the termination of office by official duty, years of age, and we from Unity Serbia want him to enjoy his well-deserved pension. In the material that you delivered to the National Assembly and to all MPs, which you delivered to the Justice Committee, absolutely all the material is complete and we can see from it the reasons why you propose them. Therefore, I'll conclude. We had a very constructive discussion here today. Proposer from Unity Serbia Petar Petrovic, who is the chairman of the Committee on Justice, said the reasons and why and that the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia will support all your proposals. We will not challenge any of your candidates. We believe in the expertise of the High Council of the Judiciary. We want you to continue with your work. We are here from the National Assembly to support you and to give you, possibly, some advice or criticism, because we bear great responsibility, beside you, for the election of both judges and the president of the courts. I believe we will choose all these judges who will swear an oath and who will perform their duties with honor and integrity. Once again, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, will support proposals from the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62412	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62413	I thank the chairman. Only in a few sentences would I say something about controversial candidate Mirjana Veljkovic. She's been a judge's assistant since 2006. So he's got a long-standing court internship as a judge's assistant, 13 years old. In view of her age and her long-standing training as a judicial assistant, she is indeed an excellent, outstanding candidate for judge. All the other parameters we appreciate when proposing candidates to the National Assembly, speak in favor of it. He's a participant in numerous specialist trainings. According to a session of all the judges of the Court of Justice in Tristenik and all the judges of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, she received a positive opinion. She received an evaluation of five, so that all the objective indicators that we had in mind, and given her years of life and her long-term work as an expert associate who is about 13 years old, means the High Council of the judiciary is indeed with one belief that it is the best candidate with the second proposed candidate, Petar Damjanović, suggested that Mirjan Veljkovic be the first choice, i.e. for the judge of the Court of Justice in Tristenik. I thank you for letting me complete my presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62414	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62415	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished guests, whenever we discuss judicial laws, we MPs of the SDP Rasim Ljajic, stress and demonstrate the exceptional will and commitment to preserve and strengthen the independence of the courts on the one hand and on the other hand, we stress the extraordinary place in education and the constant improvement of people who perform judicial, or judicial functions in our country. Our Constitution contains a guarantee of judicial independence on the one hand, and on the other hand it stresses that our judiciary is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and therefore we think that this is an important postulate and that this is an extremely important thing. The duty of all other institutions is to respect the independence of the judiciary and that is something that we in the SDP insist on. On the other hand, the judiciary is expected to solve all cases impartially, based on facts, in accordance with the law and without any restrictions, incentives and pressure. I also stress that we are giving extreme attention and giving an impulse, and that seems to me, in this and in the past term of this government and the past government, we are doing it the right way, which is to raise the infrastructure of judicial institutions, to build new courts, to invest a lot in modernising techniques, but it is also investing in perfecting people who participate in our judicial institutions. Today we're choosing judges who are first placed, and that's a very important thing. I think we've made quite an improvement on this process and I'm coming from the city of Novi Pazar and I'm very glad these four candidates really showed quality in the process of proposing, because they had some tests that showed exceptional knowledge. I know some of them. These are young, I said, people who come from the territory of the New Market, who are extremely honorable, family people and I think their proposal is an extremely good thing and that proposing a person of integrity like them, and I believe that most others who are proposed, is a big thing for the integrity of the judiciary and the very Republic of Serbia itself. I have repeated several times that the Republic of Serbia in the interior, and also in Belgrade are its institutions, so what is the integrity of the judges, prosecutors are such integrity and respect for the state of Serbia in all territories. By proposing the right people, we raise respect for the judicial institutions, but also for our common state, the Republic of Serbia. I therefore commend this proposal and stress that my parliamentary group will vote in favour of this proposal, especially for these people who are proposed in Novi Pazar, given that we personally know them. On the other hand, what I have repeatedly pointed to in this Assembly is also being resolved, and that is the unequal representation of minority peoples, in this case to judicial institutions. Unfortunately, Bosniaks are not represented in the institutions of justice in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, Novi Varoša, Priboj etc. in those territories as a percentage provided by the Constitution and by the law of this state. This proposal is a small step in solving this problem, but for us it is an extremely important fact that it wants to meet and minority peoples, in this case, Bosniaks, but also that the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that guarantee it will be respected. Of course, we have one illogicality in Novi Pazar, which is that Bosniak or Bosniak people's representative or representatives of the Bosniak people are neither the president of the lower court nor the president of the lower court, as well as the higher or lower prosecutor's office. This time I pray and point to this illogicality and call for this inequality to be resolved as soon as possible. Anyway, this proposal we have today is good. Most of the candidates proposed are good and we will support him as a parliamentary group. Unfortunately, October 22nd is always a sad day for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the day when there was a terrible crime in the north, the day when 16 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of our state of Serbia who were Bosniak nationalities, were brought out of transport and killed in a ferocious manner, and this is the day that shows that evil never rests and an ugly memory of everything that has happened to us in the near past. I would like to say, for the sake of truth, that some of the commanders and perpetrators of this crime have been punished and that Milan Lukic, for crimes, as the chief commander, has been punished in the Republic of Serbia for 20 years, as well as Oliver Krsmanovic, and that Dragutin Dragicevic and Djordje Šević, in the Belgrade District Court, have been punished, the first two for 20 years, the other two for 15 years. I think the state is showing momentum that some of the crimes, and this is a terrible crime, lighted up, but I think they should be given more attention in the media, because it's one of the terrible things that someone in the name of Serbian citizens has done and thus good neighbourly, brotherly relations between Serbs and Bosniaks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia tried to collapse. The interest of all citizens is that the truth is revealed, for as one great man says, the eyes of the victims will never close until justice and truth are established.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62416	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62417	I thank you, Chairman. I am almost entirely in agreement with what the esteemed colleague Bačevac said, except for one small indiscretion, which in any case is not motivated by anything that can raise doubt about what he wanted to say, and he said in a very factual way that we and all the MPs, including the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have compassion for what happened in the sense of a crime, which has absolutely no justification, but with one digression. No one did that on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Bacevic. In my name, no one can do this, because I respect literally every citizen of this country, I honor every citizen with respect not only to the Constitution, but also to the ethical code and morals, as a general morale and respect what our overwhelming mutual trust implies, in terms of some co-existence, which has been built in an exceptionally good way, with respect for all civil and other rights and be sure that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of nationality, share this opinion and this crime condemn. I hope so, and I'm sure, I won't say I hope so, and I believe that in no way did you think that in the name of the citizens anyone did, even those criminals you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62418	Right on the line, MP Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62419	I thank Mr. Ned Jovanovic, whom I very much respect. Of course we're absolutely alike. Of course I didn't think anyone in the Republic of Serbia had any guilt except those who directly participated in this crime. I just mentioned this to draw attention to the fact that individuals are hiding and that this is how we want to clear our country's faces and, in this case, innocent people, because most citizens, or I believe all of the honorable citizens of this country, did not support and do not support such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62420	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, we want to encourage you, to relax you. We'll tell you a few remarks that stand. You have no chance of what we're going to tell you to hear or won't tell you. Maybe they're looking for a favor, so they don't mind. counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic said that some will be elected tomorrow, perhaps everyone will be elected tomorrow. It would be good for some to be elected a little tomorrow, those who are candidates, whether for the presidents of the courts, whether for judges who will be elected for the first time. Today we choose 35 presidents of the courts and 22 candidates for judges who choose for the first time. It's supposed to be a day of justice, election day here in the National Assembly today. In the lobby, there might be an exhibition about the justice system. But we have a paradoxical situation. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who seems to me, has never been here once to discuss these matters. The Justice Minister, Mrs Nela Kuburovic, should also, because she is a member of the VSS and is not directly responsible for selecting these candidates for presidents and judges who are elected for the first time, but we actually want to point out the functioning of the justice system in Serbia. For a long period of time, perhaps since 2000, it has slowly begun with the disembarkation of courts. Now, when you get out of here, you have to fight it. What does that mean? Well, first that FI number to the economic operators was taken from the judiciary, handed over to the Agency for Commercial Registers, and then it was then handed over to the immobilization book, and eventually the executive part of the executive procedure was taken from the justice system and handed over, imagine, handed over to the persons whose choice of work is done or controlled by the minister of justice. You know, the French bourgeois Revolution, its biggest liquid, is that in the justice system, judge as impartial, professional, responsible, and we now have one situation where parts of the judicial cases run us by persons with no responsibility. It has been known to divide the system of power since ancient Greece. It has, of course, been modernised over time in what we say three branches of government – legislative, executive and judicial. And instead of the more it builds up, the more it develops, we have a big impact, it's sometimes indirect, so it's not seen by the executive authorities on the justice system. We Serbian radicals believe that the best system for selecting judges is right here in the National Assembly and you probably know that the choice of judges in Serbia is much higher than in some EU member states. You know that somewhere the presidents of the state choose the Supreme Judges and even the presidents of the court, or the President of the Supreme Court, there's that possibility. That certainly isn't good. We transferred part of the outside process to public notebooks or notaries. You should advocate to return it to the justice system in Serbia. That's the point. That would be the right thing to do. If we're gonna get to that, I don't know. You see, it is an interesting statement by Dragomir Milojevic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, acting in office. Now Professor Atlagic would say, which, for the second or third time, he has his friend there, Bakic, or whoever, for the third time. He says, he told the daily newspaper "Evening News" – worries that judges do not believe in the judiciary. That's what he said in 2018, when the Venice Commission was expected to have a significantly greater impact on the justice system in Serbia than it actually did. On the occasion, I took part in this one meeting in front of the SRS and a member of the Justice Committee. It happened in May, a very unfortunate circumstance, when it was the day of the establishment of the committee, but because it was based in Venice, the Venice Commission. And I congratulated them. They had no idea that day was their day, and they came here to teach our judges, our holders of judicial functions. When we criticise certain holders of judicial functions, whether they are judges, presidents of courts, public prosecutors, we never think about everything, but just some. We have exceptional, and here among these 22 candidates who are first elected judges, there are extremely good candidates, who were good students, good professional associates. I hope, almost without a dilemma, that it will be good judges. When it comes to the presidents of the courts, there are also good ones, there are those who are first elected, there are those who are re-elected for the second time. How that function will work, that's what we'll see. Now there's another dilemma about me, I don't know if we got the same material from us and colleague Jasmina Vujic. She's got, I know, I'm kidding, of course, it's the same, but she knows exactly how much they studied, what averages and everything. That would be a good thing to stand here. You don't mind if it's not in these biographies. It's not necessary. It would mean seeing, even though someone who was a successful student doesn't necessarily mean they'll be good, not even an average judge, but to see exactly what the situation is and what the situation is. This is probably one mistake for you, but we need to know this, too. Katarina Boskovic is proposed as judge, i.e. for the President of the Higher Court in Krusevec. She's a lady, not to say what year it is, she's going to retire on June 1st at 67 years of age. I said, then you don't have a problem calculating when she was born, but she's a public figure, so we can say that and you're choosing her as judge now. I don't know, we don't have any other objection to her work, but you shouldn't have done this in six months. Whether it's the best solution or not, I don't know, but here you made one failure, says the Law School ended in 1991, so I thought it was a little longer, and then the judicial exam passed in 1985. It's like I was born for a few years, but I finished primary school before I was born. That's where it stands. The candidate under the regular number 15 is Sladjana Boykovic, and she is proposed to the president of the Senior Court in Smederev. She had the best chance of becoming a very serious candidate for the Supreme Cassation Court president. For what? Because she conducted a trial that had 87, 88, different sources, the defendants, with about 150 crimes, and 15 types of crimes. She made one statement... This procedure is repeated twice. It's not her fault once. It started in 2008. In 2009, it seems to me, for the first time, to be elected Judge of the High Court in Smederev. Very quickly, it becomes the bearer of the president, so it is renewed in 2015, I guess because of some completeness or perhaps some court and she says, so bravely, a little bit – so it won't get old, they have persons who are charged with criminal acts where the sentence of 15 years, or 10 years, is threatened, so relatively old for 15, absolute for 30 years, but there are also faces, there are students who have been threatened with punishment for several years. Why did I say that she had the chance to become the most serious candidate for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, so that she successfully solved this case, and she didn't. Therefore, I don't think she will be able to perform this function with success and that she should not be elected president of the Grand Court in Smederev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62422	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62423	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable VSS gentlemen, honourable and honourable Members of the People, let me say that we have confidence in the Commission of the VSS, which has made the choice of judges, carried out a review of the applications submitted to the ad, and determined the timing and completeness as found in this report. Normally, she interviewed the candidates and gave an assessment that the candidates met all the criteria and criteria for selecting judges. What's very important to us, which is that it's common for all these candidates to meet all the criteria and criteria for evaluation, and that's expertise, training and dignity. Dear People's MPs, let me say that, while in power, the party of the former regime did not call for meeting the criteria and criteria, it had already established one single basic criterion, which is DS belonging, which negatively affected the entire judiciary. It is enough to say that, when I arrived for Justice Minister Mr Nikola Selakovic, he found an assistant minister of justice who did not have a law school. During the former regime's party, the judiciary, according to the European officials, was the worst in Europe. That's what we found, and now in the context of that, we need to look at everything possible, let's say, now the things that happen in the judiciary, and they're far better than anyone at that time. Let me say that the judiciary has moved from unremembered scandals, and you remember very well who you are, long-term MPs, in positioning, exorcising judges, 760 by my record, to the imbalance of criminal acts. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs, during the former regime's party, some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide. It's enough to get the President of the Court to Negotin. They've done something that no one in the history of the world's judiciary has done. You know what they did? They even chose a dead judge in a working relationship, Ljubiš Ristic of Požega, declared him a judge, and the man was dead for six months. So Nata Mesarovic, president of the VSS, said she had conducted and held talks with all the candidates for judges. The logical question arises – how did she talk to dead Judge Ljubisa Ristic? This is proof that they really cared about the basic criteria they invented, which is the belonging of DS. The former regime's gentlemen were not allowed to be elected in the district court by judges who were among the five best judges because her husband was a lawyer, and he was also working on the Ibar Highway, as an investigative judge, and he made a first-degree verdict in the Curuvija case and defended Mr. Goran Knezevic. The former regime's gentlemen have forced it to be elected Judge Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges, as it also served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the RIK. Believe it or not, but that's what our predecessors did, and now they're looking for changes to some election conditions. The judge's law expressly forbids it. Look at the miracles, she took 2,673,000 dinars illegally in RIK in 2008. She refused to pay that money back. Gentlemen of the Alliance for Serbia did not allow judges to be worthy of you, and without that criterion, no one can become a judge. In the European Commission's 2010 report on reform implemented by the DS, DS authorities are particularly concerned, according to the Report, i.e. the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008 to 2012" by the European Commission, on page 96. The European Commission further finds, I quote - the judges' re-election process was non-transparent, risking and the principle of independence, completed the quote. Is it a miracle they chose 760 judges, then they took them off the street? Half of them haven't even finished law school. The European Commission continues, I quote - the judges' re-election process was non-transparent, thus risking and the principle of independence, and finally the European Commission concludes, quote - the reforms implemented by the authorities, then democratic, or all the variants of the Democratic Party were as the worst possible thing, finished quote. This is the conclusion of the European Commission, published next to the book and the Belgrade Policy on July 7th, 2012 on page 1 and is not just a problem in judges. This is how everyone in the Alliance for Serbia today who leads, none better. Let me mention one of them, academician Dusan Teodorovic, who is more than God's candidate for the future president of the Republic. Because of the role that brilliant actor Nenad Jezdic played at the opening of the highway "Milos Veliki" and told the public that he would no longer buy Jezdić's otherwise excellent rakija, imagine. So we were informed by a prominent newspaper in 13.10.2009. Dear citizens, can you believe the level of an academic that he said this? Is that the level of one university professor? Is it possible that an academic isn't looking forward to opening the freeway? Well, you don't have that in any country of the world. There's a saying about me in my hometown -- what doesn't suit a donkey doesn't suit an academic. Let me go on and say it's not just him. The problem is many of the Alliance for Serbia. I will mention one more, and that is Bosko Obradovic, whom you know very well, in a people called the Bosko bully. To name just a few things what this man is doing - he raided RIK and attacked a RIK member, raided the municipality of Pećinca, committed an attack on Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic at a session of the Administrative Committee, raided the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's cabinet, raided the Police Station in Guca, committed an attack on journalist "Pinka", attempted to raid REM, sought the shooting of the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and attempted to invade Serbia's presidency. Asked the Serbian Army to carry out a coup. He made a break-in of RTS with the saws. He raided the Assembly of Gornji Milanovac, the guard otherwise chased him, threw him out. Threatened President Vukic for a slap. What's the D.A.'s office doing? What's our D.A. doing? Not to speak further, but just as I am provoked by a fellow MP, Dusan Sabac, is this Dusan Sabac, which you mention, Petrovic, otherwise called in the people of Dula Kravokiller while he was a minister of agriculture for one year ordered that 250 thousand cows be destroyed, slaughtered, and a total fund of 500 thousand. Marinika Tepic, a dove of flyers, smiles Mr. Vukadinović, on TV the other day she speaks very well, otherwise she is known to lie in one party, and wakes up in the morning in another party. Not to mention her malfeasances as a regional secretary, still not to mention. Dear citizens of Serbia, these days, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, president of the Republic, won the Order of the Holy Sava First Order for 800 years of self-certification of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Some have expressed disdain, their disdain, expressed wonders and academician Matija Bećkovic, in a people known, children call him – an academic poet. You should not be surprised, the President of the Republic should not be surprised that he expressed his disdain, because the academic at the 1993 DEPOS rally said, I quote -- that the people who voted for Slobodan Milosevic deserve nothing more than to bomb, finished the quote. Well, you see, respected citizens of the Republic, what kind of people it is, that I don't keep counting them. Coming for Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, the situation is drastically improving in the judiciary. However, its continuity continues, and Nela Kuburovic. Dear People's MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it will take much, much water to flow through the Danube while the situation in our judiciary is being brought to a drawn level, to the one that is the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that have plotted. One thing I am sure of is that we will certainly, slowly, patiently come to that end. But let me say that it's not just individual judges, it's also lawyers. We had some lawyers who were anti-stated and acted that way. I will mention only one, and it belongs to the former DS system, but it is now deceased, but let me mention it, which is lawyer Srdja Popovic. In September 1993, he, far away, as a lawyer along with writer Mirko Kovac, George Soroshe, Margaret Thatcher and others demanded the bombing of his own country. Behold, he described Serbia as an anus munda, that the people understood, as an asshole of the world, and Serbs – for him Serbs are what is in the anus, which is in the buttocks. The rest of the Alliance for Serbia are no better either. I don't have time to talk about it, and these days we'll have, one by one, to bring to see about an analytical group of people whose nothing is sacred, and the least of their country and people. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will bring this judiciary to its end. Why? Because the judiciary is part of our system as a whole, which will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is carried out by the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of honourable MPs, and the engine of accelerated modernisation of Serbia is our respected President, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62424	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62425	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have recently had the opportunity to listen to Mrs Kuburovic's plan for constitutional changes in the area of justice. So, on our way to the EU, we are obliged to meet the requirements and recommendations of an organisation of European hoistuplers, which is called the Venice Commission, and I will remind you that it cannot progress in the chapters with the EU unless the recommendations of the Venice Commission are met by the end. The Venice Commission also gave a positive opinion on the new Law on Religious Communities in Montenegro, which is an introduction to the seizure of SPC property in Montenegro. They had lay opinions against the Serb people and nominated a referendum in Montenegro on Montenegro's independence in 2006 and we are obliged to meet all their recommendations. The main objection is, and what the president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has repeatedly stressed, politicising the judiciary, the impact of the policy on judges and politicians on judicial decisions. Of course, we know the quality of our judiciary, we don't need anyone to tell us on the side, we know that judges are unfortunately just mere perpetrators when it comes to major and important subjects of political will. It's not something new that came with this power that's been such a situation since 2000. No one on that plan has changed anything for the better, but the point is that politicization of the judiciary exists by affecting judges. How? By choosing them, those judges who choose for the first time are chosen by the National Assembly. So, an abnormal nebulosis that I guess needs to convince someone that politicization and political pressure on judges exist because they are chosen by the National Assembly. If there is a pressure on the judges, of course there is, it can only be the executive authority that exerts that pressure, not the National Assembly. For example, one nebulose stands in the recommendations of the Venice Commission, as if the National Assembly were one homogeneous organ, as if there were no 250 MPs, as if there were no, I don't know exactly how many, but a few dozen political parties in this House and now they collectively all influence judges. There's something like that coming, for example, from the Venice Commission. The other thing, no one at the justice ministry, nor Mrs. Kuburovic, nor Nikola Selakovic, a former minister, nor during the DS, remembered what solutions were in parallel with the election of judges. For example, the most important and most powerful EU country, the Federal Republic of Germany, elects judges in parliament. Judges at the federal level at the federal parliament in Bundestag, and judges by provinces in regional parliaments. Can anyone imagine from the VSS or from the Justice Department or anywhere, that the Venice Commission should now come to the German Federal Justice Minister and say – you know what you choose from the judges in parliament is the influence of justice policy, you have to organize there a secret body that will meet in the cabinets and where politics will be totally removed from the choice of judges. You can't imagine that. In all the major legal systems, something like that couldn't be imagined. Since Serbia, in this regard as well as many others, serves only as an experimental polygon to test various inventions on experimental rabbits, to see what these consequences will produce, then it is something good for Serbia that does not exist in any developed, primarily European democracy, and not in any of the largest legal systems. Judges in the U.S. Supreme Court are elected by the President of America, they are named for life, of course, with the recommendation of the American Association. So, no one can come from the street, but the main thing is control and balance, the impact of one branch of government on another. It's now trying to correct itself here, trying to completely shut that interdependence out of that process, and it explains to us that it's more quality. It's gonna be better for us, and it's not better for Germany, for example. No one can believe that. So, what's allowed Jupiter, that's not allowed to be ox. It's the relationship of the Venice Commission, but everyone else from which we receive dictatorships and then implement them in our legal system. What is also a major scandal, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the transfer of some jurisdiction to certain groups of people, such as public notebooks, and what is even more drastic public enforcement. Mrs. Kuburovic, a dead cold in the Serbian Parliament, says -- public perpetrators exist in the legal system because the courts have proved unable to resolve the enforcement process. So, the minister of justice says the courts are incompetent and it's a finding, it's all right. I will remind you at the time of the introduction of public executioners, also because of recommendations from abroad, the DS introduced it, the SNS supported the perpetrators both earlier and this year, and it is said that the courts are incompetent. What kind of way is that? So the acceptance of defeat and through the line of less resistance is the existence of public executioners, because instead of the courts reforming, more people getting jobs, to raise their salaries and then to be fully in the jurisdiction of the courts, where they will not be able to create a criminal clan that is taking away above all, the poorest layers of society of houses and apartments and sell them at secret auctions, among themselves, for example, the son of the Vice President of the Chamber of Executives, who before that some perpetrators seized and everything else, the property maps of those people who are now in hundreds of thousands of euros, their wealth, would not be possible. As one of the arguments, Mrs Kuburovic says -- you know, in the first six months of 2019, public contractors paid a billion dinars in Serbia's budget for the first six months of 2019. So 20% of their profits were billions of dinars and we can only conclude that four billion dinars are what the perpetrators have earned in Serbia in six months by, above all, taking away those who are the poorest. In 2017 more than 3,000 properties, up to 50 square meters, so living space was taken away from people by public contractors, where no one was informed when it happened, no one was informed of the height of their debt and the costs of execution were much more expensive than the basic debt. This is the current situation in Serbia. The justice ministry supports it, the ruling majority in the assembly supports it, the ruling SNS supports it. The Serbian Radical Party has handed over more than 100,000 signatures from Serbian citizens gathered for two months to discuss the issue again. A new draft law on enforcement and security where this problem will finally be resolved, of course, we are appealing and investigating the work of all these judges, i.e. The executioner, to see what they did, how lawful it was, and to really break up with one such condition. As a result, those who owe the most are still in debt, still in debt, no one touches them. Those who owe the least, they are the poorest, they suffer the most and those are the facts. This is no longer hidden by the Ministry of Justice, and that is, of course, positive, because it has been commended by the EU. We should worry about the situation in our judiciary ourselves, without the dictatorship of the Venice Commission, and that it cannot happen to us that the minister of justice says such a thing – the courts are incompetent. We then acknowledge defeat in this way, and then it happens to us in Serbia that there is such brutality, haughtiness and robbery by public perpetrators, all under the watchful eye of the Justice Ministry, under the watchful eye of the ruling party and with the support of the police. No one's responding, and then we have to listen to explanations about how it's actually good for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62426	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word is Branislav Goravica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62427	I remained obliged to respond to the remarks made regarding the candidate for the President of the Higher Court in Krusevec, Judge Katarina Boskovic. First of all, I apologize to this distinguished home for the mistake of the year. In the material it's possible that this error is not the only one, it's because of the size of the material. Take our apologies. It's 1981, not 1991. Judge Katarina Boskovic will be 65 next year, not 67, as said. Under the law, he has the right to remain in office of the President of the Court until the end of the presidency, regardless of the conditions for retirement. Otherwise, that judge was the President of the Higher Court in Kruševec, between 4 June 2014 and June 2019. He is now in the position of acting president of the court. She was the only candidate for the president of that court. She met all the requirements in assessing the results of her work, the work programme and the talks with the candidate, and given the fact that the results of the court's work and its personal results justify her being president again, only from the fact that she was the only candidate, and that the court would otherwise be left without the president of the court, the VSS proposed this candidate for the president of the court, regardless of the fact that she truly met the requirements for retirement next year in June. I don't know if I have the right to do this, but I would like to express a protest over Mr. Alexander Seselj's statement that the judges are just the mere executioners of political orders. That's not true, and I'm obliged to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62428	Thank you. Right on line and comment is Mr. Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62429	First of all, you should first look at the statements made by the president of the VSS that spoke about the pressures on the judiciary. So he said that this is the main reason for constitutional amendments is the pressure that comes because the National Assembly chooses judges. And the fact that judges are independent and independent, it may exist in some story, in some paper, in some proposal, etc., but in reality it really isn't. It's nothing new, and indeed you, too, Your Honor, couldn't convince anyone in Serbia. This has already existed since 2000, and we have seen, of course, with large processes ending when it comes primarily to some former members of the DS regime. We've heard all sorts of things here about their crime and the "Hatterland" and about the robbers and the Pitiæ and the various things, so we see that someone gets a leg for six months or a year. Imagine the process of killing Zoran Djindjic. Someone will say that that is where Judge Nata Mesarovic made her own decision without pressure from the executive authority. Now, that's one of the main examples that confirms all of this to you afterwards. This is a situation, unfortunately, in Serbia's judiciary and nothing new. We can talk about how great it is that we accept the objections of the Venice Commission, but it will not absolutely improve our judicial system, we will stay where we are, it may be even worse, and all we will get is a pat on the shoulder, bravo, which is why Serbia will be a prominent European country. It is currently, unfortunately, the reality in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62430	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. Now the word has Biljana Pantić Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62431	Thank you. Dear Members of the VSS, dear colleagues, I would now have a lot to say here because I listened to my distinguished colleagues who have been discussing all day, so I will try to sublime from some experience, as well as an MP and as a lawyer who has great ties to the court, or daily attends trials and attends trials. For starters, I'm not some big fan of the High Council of Justice, like some of my colleagues thanked you. First of all, I think the president of the High Council of Justice was supposed to come here today before us to explain his decision to us. My point is he was supposed to come here. I believe he has work to do, but this is one of his jobs to come before the messengers of the people, not to send you, with all due respect to you. Secondly, of all the colleagues who discussed today, Ms. Verica Radeta is my best, about 80% can agree with her, I can't agree with 100% because she would probably be sitting there, but 80% of what my colleague Verica Radeta said, I think she's right. The People's MPs of the SRS, they're getting it. If you can be quieter, I know you're thrilled, but just a little quieter to explain what I wanted. First of all, you've read our decision. With all due respect, you're not the speaker here, we got that decision and we read it very carefully. Secondly, I think the biographies you deliver to us are getting more and more scarce each time. I know the average study and the average year of study isn't a condition, but until recently you've provided us with such data. Now, reading, I conclude that some candidates who were first elected to the judge's office have studied until 27, up to 29, which is ten years of study. I don't know what reason that information is hidden. I am also a member of the permanent delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a member of the Committee for the Election of Judges of the European Court of Human Rights. In this Committee, we get very extensive biographies of candidates, with whom we have a conversation and choose them, even question them. Until recently, I was even in favor of the fact that the choice of judges should no longer be held in the congregation. I've changed my mind just given the work of the High Court Council. Because I don't know what it is for individuals from the High Council of Jurisdiction, what these moral criteria are listed in Article 45. The law on judges, what about neptism, because every time there's a candidate out there who has something to do with someone, what about making a judge's caste. Since out of the 22 candidates we've first elected to serve as judges, only one candidate is not from the judiciary, there is not a single lawyer, there is not one candidate from the economy. No one, just the judge's assistants and the beginner's staff. I also see in the biography that some candidates completed their initial training in 2015. What were they doing after? What kind of biographies are these? How am I supposed to conclude that some candidate is worthy? I also have a question for you, is the candidate employed by the NGO a worthy candidate? Does he meet moral requirements? That's a question for the High Judiciary Council. You didn't get us into the biographies, I had to Google the candidates because you're not delivering complete biographies, and then we're talking about politicizing judges. No, the court is a closed caste no one can enter. On the side of these 22 candidates, I don't know what they are, I don't know anyone personally, I hope they'll be good judges, I'm expressing great doubt. For example, the judges you choose after the competition, here is the almost elected judge in Novi Sad, the Supreme Court. You know what she did first in June when she got her cases? She postponed the trial scheduled for November and scheduled it for February. What about the efficiency of the Serbian judiciary? I know that the dark Middle Ages is a synonym for the dark judiciary in 2009 and 2010, I was in court at the time as an intern volunteer and I know how justice reform was done, I know what was done with the judges. We also know how the judges were then elected, by cafes and by political belongings, so we got 700 lawsuits for damages. But what about these further choices now, what are you doing? Milorad Mircic, throws without a microphone. ) Please, colleague Mircic, without throwing away, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62432	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62433	What's with the, uh, rumor is that the High Council of the Judiciary has the view that, for example, a judge of the Court of Commerce cannot be elected as judge of the Court of Appeal, but only as judge of a commercial appeal. Where does that say? And that's how your voice beats you, that some judges are persistently competing and they can't be chosen, because that's what they're told. What about the first choice candidates for the judge? I know the candidates who compete, who finished colleges in three and a half years. They've had averages over nine, but they've been working as associates for nine years. You can't choose them. Isn't it someone's family? Is Nepotism ruled? How does the High Council of the Judiciary determine who is worthy? That's my question. How do you determine who's worthy? Based on what moral criteria? Why don't we have all the data, if we need to get up and vote here? We still have those powers to vote for the judges, still. On the other hand, you choose the ones in the contests. There's everything and everything. There are judges you choose in a senior court, and they're there for two or three months, so they go quickly to the appeal. Some can't get to that appeal. By what criteria do you choose judges? As far as the judge's trial is concerned. I know that jurisprudence is something to base judgments on, but what about legal certainty? What about efficiency, economics? You know we have mass lawsuits, I don't want to tell you what's the subject of the dispute, but there are. In one court, a list of judges who adopt a claim, another list in the same court of judges who refuse to press charges. What guarantee do we have of legal certainty for the citizens of Serbia when they press charges? To file, to see who the judge is, to drop the lawsuit, to re-apply to the office until they get the judge off their list. It's the legal certainty you guarantee us. There is no taking the legal views of the decadent, but of the round, and you choose, as I said to the judges, again I repeat to you the judge you select in a senior court in June of the month cancels the hearing in November and schedules for February. I guess it takes time to get ready. The judiciary is in better shape than it was. It's a fake. There are fewer old cases, but the judges are still acting the way they do, because you choose such judges and because, I'll give myself the right, the National Assembly doesn't get biographies so they can see who's really worthy, who isn't. How did you get to these candidates? How do I know he wasn't a better candidate? I can't help but mention, since it is indirectly linked to Serbia's judiciary, I can't help but mention that last night, in one opposition note, a statement came out by a columnist named Vuk Jeremic, Bora Thessaloniki of the former DS feather, where Milos Vucevic, Mayor of Novi Sad, was the most disgusting insult. Once again, it turns out that it matters who's talking, not what he's saying. Milos Vukevic has been elected mayor of Novi Sad twice, which has not happened in the history of the city. Bora Thessaloniki didn't even win the election in his village where he came from. Bora Thessaloniki voted from Thessaloniki in 2001, the Labour Act, Bora Thessaloniki has become obsolete, so much for it, since we have digressions, we have clients who can't get out of time, but Boris Thessaloniki is an out-of-date offense. The man has been convicted and brought before the Special Court a criminal case against him, so I hope this time the judges will judge by law, not by the empire, as Dusan's code would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62434	Thank you, Mrs. Pilla. The Right to Replica has the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62435	The discussion of her colleague, Pilia, is really encouraging. I didn't answer because she said she was consensual, mostly with everything I said, because the fact that I made the arguments, as she said earlier, encourages this discussion to come from the MPs of the government. It is indeed high time for officials to treat the Supreme Council of the judiciary in this way, when it is necessary for the government of the Republic of Serbia when it is necessary. We need to get used to you sitting here, this isn't about you fellow MPs, that you're not here for God's sake, that you're not china dolls, that we can't touch. We're here to discuss, to express certain views. A colleague of the Pilyas apparently brought a lot of things out as a lawyer from her court practice. You have no arguments. You said earlier that you had to, I don't know what term you were, some of you were a little harder to use to not stand up to or anything like that, Alexander Seselj, for what he said when it came to judges. You have to answer, if you think you have an argument, but it's not an argument, I have to stand up because that's not true. You know, we're saying what's right and we're talking about what we have evidence and what's wrong, and we're saying why, and the answer is that it's not true, you'll let it, it's not an answer. Imagine you judges in an explanation to write it like that. At least you know that without arguments, you can't speak. So I'm saying that it's good, I repeat it from the beginning, that it's good to have a colleague named Pilia, and I hope that the other lawyers have that experience, too, can freely express their impressions and what they have shown them is practice. My colleague, Pilia, can show up to her clients and get new clients, and so on, but the lawyer who defends you and defends the judiciary here, defends the courts, so that someone will come to his attorney's office and say, "Whom you defend, my dispute lasts 17 years, and you're defending some judges there." We need to bring in a little reality and we need to act according to what's going on in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62436	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Mr. Alexander Pantic. Here you go, Mr. Pantico.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62437	I'd like to respond to the remarks of a colleague who took the job of the High Council of the Judiciary. First, in terms of dignity. It means the dignity of the candidates is declared by the body, organisation, or court in which the candidate is working. If it is a professional associate of his dignity, the court in which he performs the work of an expert advisor, because these are the people who know him best, he works in that environment and they plead to the candidate's dignity. If it's a lawyer, the bar of attorneys declares dignity. So, dignity is being declared by the organization in which that candidate works. As far as the data we provide in the material to the MPs of the National Assembly is concerned, we provide the data prescribed by law as a criterion and a criteria for selecting candidates who are first elected for judicial office, and for the presidents of the courts the same information prescribed as a criterion and criteria for selecting the President of the Courts. As for the remarks that we do not choose from the Court of Commerce for the Court of Appeal, I can say that in the Court of Appeal in Nis three judges of the Court of Commerce in Nis, you can check that. So, appeals courts are also available to judges of economic courts. As far as the objections are concerned that we're supposed to be selecting only judges' associates, I don't think that's even standing, because we have cases that we've chosen lawyers for the first choice of judges, here we have here from the City's Attorney's Office, in Nis we've chosen from the D.A.'s Attorney General's Office as a judge, so we absolutely choose from other areas, from other categories of faces for judges. But the fact is, that judge associates work first, they're longtime judicial associates, they've kind of been schooling since the start of the judge. When we estimate that an associate is a better candidate than someone who is not an associate, it's normal to choose an associate. As far as this basic circle of faces is concerned, you should bear in mind that after constitutional changes, that only the Judicial Academy will be at the entrance of the judiciary, so we will only have to choose judges from the circle of persons who have completed the Judicial Academy if they adopt. And according to the present state of affairs, the Judicial Academy can enroll anyone. So, literally, and whoever works with a private person, in a working organization, in the state administration, as a lawyer intern, an associate, means anyone who meets the conditions can sign up to the Judicial Academy, or who sets up the appointments for the Judicial Academy. So all of these individuals, and lawyers who have passed a judicial exam and employees in other working organisations, and in the state services, are therefore available to all of them under equal conditions. Therefore, if someone really has a strong will to become a judge, he can also choose that path, to sign up for the Judicial Academy, to be a member of initial training, to complete that initial training at the Judiciary Academy, and that is his safe path to justice. By the way, past the Judicial Academy and past the professional associates, we also choose directly for judges who are first elected to the judicial office in the category of persons who do not belong to the judicial assistants, nor the students of initial training, or the final students of the initial training at the Judicial Academy. I think that would be it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62438	Thank you, Mr Pantic. Now the right to replica has Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62439	Mr. Pantic, all you've told me is if you adopt that only persons with a completed judicial academy. I was talking about a specific case today, a decision, you say -- there are other candidates. Yeah, that's what I said. Of the 22 candidates, there's only one deputy city attorney. And what you just said, well, of course, whoever's in court, closer to the court, doesn't write anywhere in the law, Mr. Pantic, that only a judge can be a judge and not someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62440	Thank you, colleague Pilja. Mr. Pantic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62441	I said that even under the current law, the Judicial Academy can, on equal terms, sign up as both a judge's assistant and a lawyer's assistant and a person employed by any state or private enterprise or body. Therefore, the Judicial Academy is also available to all under equal conditions at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62442	Thank you, Mr Pantic. Now the word has a folk MP, Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please advise the judiciary to send its representatives in the future who will not deceive the public and submit false reports. Madam in front of the High Court Council, you mentioned a little before, and this isn't the first time I've listened to you, this is the third time, when you tell hollow stories and tell lies... .
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62444	My friend Jojic, I have to ask you, don't say such hard words. We can exchange arguments. It's the guests. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62445	Mr. Chairman, when the High Council of the Judiciary comes before this assembly, his pants will shake. He must respect the Assembly and the MPs who choose them, not come with false reports and baseless statements. The lady said earlier that disciplinary proceedings are being conducted against those who commit disciplinary violations during the trial during their term of office. Ma'am, you did not say how many disciplinary applications were filed in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019? Now, I will tell you, because from the High Council of the Judiciary, signed by Milojevic, I said the following, and you bypassed it, thoughtfully, to deceive the MPs: "By seeing the record - Peter Jojic's answer to the question - the disciplinary prosecutor found that 831 disciplinary applications were submitted during 2016, in 2017 588 disciplinary applications, in 2018 582, and in the first six months of 2019 242 disciplinary applications". Of that, ma'am, which doesn't give reasons to the MPs, that all 31 were taken into work. What about those 2,200 applications? This people went crazy and sued and complained about representatives of the judicial authorities of anger? It's a pain in the ass, 'cause a lot of 'em black-headed 'em. And the High Council of the Judiciary tolerates the presidents of the courts for breaking the law by individual judges. I'll come up with two examples and two cases. You have subject number 6742/17, where the participant in the procedure was Besarić Jovo. Judge Dragana Marchetic conducted the procedure. He suffered the illegal conduct of the judge, the violation of the law and the counterfeiting of facts and the fact in the case of damages of 50,000 euros. The second is the case, Professor Veroljub Rajovic, who, in case 2143/12, also broke the law by the judge, suffered damages worth 30,000 euros. What did you do about it? What did the High Council do? And let me teach you something here. You have committed a harsh violation of the Constitution of Article 21, of Article 36, of Article 99, of Article 153. Ma'am, you're conducting disciplinary proceedings. Are you making a decision on the conduct of disciplinary proceedings and decisions, formal law? You're violating Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, how is it possible that we in Serbia today have 2,745 judges? Of which, 1,959 are women, and only 776 are men. What are you doing here? You're breaking Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, discrimination. Next, court staff, you have 10,818. You've got 1,595 court assistants, you've got 5,851 and 3,700 deputies. The courts are relieved. My esteemed colleagues here today said that a large number of cases have been decommissioned, removed from court, i.e. the introduction of public notebooks, the introduction of public executioners, the Agency for the Peace Resolution of Disputes, which is now burdened by some individuals. Gentlemen, you are to blame from the High Council of the Judiciary, and you should not be called the High Council of the Judiciary. You have to say - the advice of the judiciary. You, as a high representative from the EU, when you come to this assembly. Under the Budget Law, gentlemen, all courts in Serbia are funded with 24 billion dinars. Court spending is 1.93% of the budget. In order to prevent corruption, gentlemen of the High Council of the Judiciary, which I suggest is responsible as a lawyer and as a man with almost 50 years of legal profession and a former justice minister, I ask you to raise salaries to the holders of judicial functions to prevent corruption. If I were able to and if I were, I'd be able to raise my salary 100% to the holders of the judicial functions. That way they'd reduce corruption. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, you and the presidents of the courts you choose, I would say, from Romans to today, the worse the situation in the judiciary in this territory was not to say, especially since 2000, when the "domestics" came. The "Yellow Infantry" was now founded in courts and prosecutors that it could not even detonate atomic bombs. Therefore, gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, the SRS advocates that we return to the previous state, to the original state, to the regular state of municipal courts, district courts, the Supreme Court and also to prosecutors. Who is responsible, why so much talk – unsolved objects? Who? The presidents of the courts, they're tourists in the most part. They are the first to consult on Tara, in Zlatibor, in Palic, in Vranjska Banja, in Zlatar, where they are not there. They're the first, they're taking the secretaries with them to educate them on those counsellings. Well, have them educate them where they work, where the courts are. And you, ma'am, I remember you when you were talking two years ago when you were talking about how many discipline jobs there were. Now questions, give me answers - from 2016 to today how many cases have been resolved in the disciplinary procedure, the name and the name of the judge, and what is the outcome of the decision? Secondly, when you reject, gentlemen, your prosecutors, when they reject disciplinary charges, why don't they write solutions with an explanation? You are bound by Article 36. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So you see how much you're breaking the Constitution? No one in the state violates the Constitution, but you do. Did I tell you which members of the Constitution you're breaking? You come here to tell us a hollow story? Do you know who it's for? For one who has no idea what justice is. Therefore, when you come here, you must objectively report to the MPs, and you must know that you have come where you are and chosen by the National Assembly and what my colleague Mircic says - the truth and only the truth, because that is the only way we can help remove a number of irregularities and numerous abuses in this state where you are. You're in V.D. condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62446	Thank you, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62447	Can I just have a minute?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62448	Of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62449	I'm sorry. How is it possible for you to set up a V.D. President of the Court, and for six months you have deprived the right Parliament of control over the work of the President of the Court? Who gave you that authority? The constitution doesn't give you the right, even prevents you. Under the Constitution, the Assembly elects presidents, no V.D. states. Secondly, you went out with one number today, what about another number to set up? Is that for sure, to choose or wait for other circumstances and arrangements? Therefore, you are bound to respect the Constitution, gentlemen. My request is in future when you get here, come with accurate data. As possible, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and in fact he was in V.D. A condition? Turns out it's unconstitutional V.D. chooses other V.D. And the people's congregation has been disfellowshipped. The National Assembly has been disembarked by your appointment. Americanization and Europeanization of our judiciary will bring us to our knees. Second, will you, gentlemen, be independent judges? You will. Be independent, but you know when? You make legitimate decisions and no one comes near you and asks you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62450	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. The word is "Mrs. Radet." "The violation of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62451	I wouldn't say it was an injury, but it is a 27. I understand that you, Mr. Marinkovic, were unable to react earlier when representatives of the High Council spoke here, especially because you are not a lawyer. Otherwise, I don't have any objections to the way you conduct the session, but I have to use this member of the Rules of Procedure to say that the gentlemen tried to deceive the National Assembly by talking about the assessment of dignity in the election of the President of the Court. Dignity is evaluated only when judges are elected for the first time. Once he becomes a judge, his dignity is no longer assessed and the assessment does not exist when it comes to proposals for the election of the president of the courts. Here, I'm just, excuse me now that I, in a way, have abused this member, but I just had to tell the public. Therefore, dignity for the exercise of the judge's office only takes place during the first election, and when the president's election, no one assesses it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62452	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Now the word has Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62453	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, today we have before us a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, but also a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected as judges, as well as a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom. Of course, in the day of the vote of the gentleman who will be elected, I'm sure he'll try to do his job honorably, as it is to the judges, and I'll look back at a gentleman who, in my opinion, doesn't deserve much attention. It's about, for example, Mr. Miodrag Majic. This man, I'd like him to evaluate our citizenship, I'll read it, my source is "Embargo", exactly what he was doing, how honorable or dishonest it is, so let me evaluate what we unfortunately have in the judiciary, or in the judiciary. How did Mr. Miodrag Majic get to the judge's seat? He was building a fast career in the First Court, especially after the Petoctobar Revolution, because he quickly forgot about his earlier mentors and quickly became a Democratic Judge, committed to the influence on the outside. Shame, that's not how it's done, especially in the area of justice. This Mr. Miodrag Majic is the judge of the Court of Appeal, judge, blogger, TV star, critic of government, government, president. Imagine, please, the one who needs to be independent? A jurisprudence gladiator who cuts American N1 as a hindsight, accuses his colleagues, misbehaves the prosecution, just as if he had spoken to the Western embassies. He was elected Judge of the First Municipal Court by skipping hundreds of then-experienced trainees and sitting in a judge's chair without a single day's internship in that court. There's Mrs. Pilia right, it's a shame what they did. I'm sure you'll never do it again today. He was told that he liked to travel mostly at the expense of others. It says, the embargo, has become a very fast-moving investigative judge, the president of the council, a spokesman, until 2005 when he settled in the chair of the President of the First Court. He became President of the First Municipal Court, I don't know what he didn't become thanks to his friends, his friends. Word was he still earned the President's chair, you know how? By ratting out the then-president of the court, Vojkono Simic, to direct the cases to the judges in his own bag. You're a disgrace. It exists, it has to be said that people know who man is, simply, must be said. In 2008, the call of a doctor of legal science gained and what more marked, marked the defence of doctoral work, was the presence of his godfather Goran Ilic, a man with whom he will start CEPRIS eight years later, listen – Center for Judicial Research. An NGO, with which it will hit hard on the Serbian judiciary in an attempt. Judge, set up an NGO? Please, dear viewers, listen carefully to what I'm saying, the judge founded an NGO. Well done. And strike at judges who don't suit him, strike at the president, strike at the messengers, strike at all. All that suits him is fine, everything that's right isn't right. The same in that famous cutting of insubordination judges and those who in any way resented the Dossier leaders, despots from 2009, Dr Majic, not only did he skip the then District Court and directly elected to the Court of Appeal, and in the Department of War Crimes, beware, for war crimes, where there was twice the salary of the other judges of the same court. The unprecedented disgrace of the Serbian judiciary must be acknowledged at the time. In the Court of Appeal, someone has been elected who has never made a decision in appeals, without a day's internship in the District Court, and that was his job in appeals, please. In the District Court, there are countless judges who have truly met the conditions for the transition to the Court of Appeal. I hope this never happens again and that this kind of fela people will not sit in our justice system. Now let's see who this gentleman is. This is just part of his biography. This gentleman has strange arches, this Milorad Majic, is intruding him from life imprisonment for rapists and child murderers, and he didn't mind when he reached a verdict on the release of the worst Shiptarian slaughterers. The Belgrade Court of Appeals judge Miodrag Majic, who after the first-degree conviction for most of them, as a member of the council, released 11 members of the KLA crime group's bloodbath group from Gjilan, who beastly tortured and killed Serbs and Roma in that area, voiced against the adoption of "Tiana's Law". Majic took advantage of the "Instinct of the Week" tour to say that the introduction of a life-long prison without the right to discharge is a violation of international conventions and European standards, but also of the Serbian Constitution. Oh, my God. That's what he did on the eve of the MPs, us here in the assembly. Serbia, including the professional public, has experienced this as a direct pressure on the legislative authority, which no judge has the right to, in the same way is understood by MPs, that Majic should cover himself with ears and be silent, instead of criticising the law aimed at protecting children, pregnant women, the powerless, is being told by a lawyer, Mr Svetozar Vujic. The same gentleman, Judge Majic, is the last man to go public, especially as every appearance of him looks like he's wearing a yellow uniform. He's against everything and everything. Whatever's good for this company, he's against it, and he's the only judge who's gone straight to the Court of Appeal for the third time, because it's a nonsens, because it's insolent, whatever, it didn't happen again, and thanks to DS, which in 2009, gave him the choice of which place he wants to go. Imagine that. Speaking of the gjilan group, that group was first-degreed, and he has rightly freed them. But the Cassation Court found that the verdict was affected by significant violations of the law and that it was such an unsustainable one, but could no longer change it, but the Cassation Court only found that it was an injury, Mr Vujic concluded. Let us also remind ourselves that the Belgrade Court of Appeal released the culprits and released all 11 members of the most bloody KLA criminal group from Gjilan, who during 1999 beastly tortured and killed Serbs and Roma in the area. This denied that there were the most bloody and ruthless crimes against Serbs. So, instead of the executioners being sentenced to a total of 116 years in prison, they were granted freedom, despite statements of witness associates. Source J.J. The head of the gjilan group in 1999 was Fazli Aydari. At the trial, the witnesses gave details of what they were doing to the victims, but that was not enough for the first degree conviction to be confirmed. They say they had a boarding school where they brought victims and torture procedures. The procedure meant bringing the victim in first, taking off, and then asking them questions. Gentlemen, I find it hard to read this, but I must, for the sake of the public, let it be known what is sitting in the Serbian judiciary. No matter what they say, they've always been beaten with a square iron stick. It was a rule to take their souls slowly. We tied the victims high to the hands to hang and just threw them on the floor when they came to order. We used to cut off women's breasts and make fun of it afterwards. Maybe I shouldn't read anymore, because I'm not feeling well, so I'm just gonna wish these guys, like this monster, would never be present on this scene again, so this never happened again, just another sentence, 80 killed and 250 tortured. He has freed Mr. Majic, to serve him with honor, and he has children. In voting day, I will support the proposals of those candidates I think should do this job with honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62454	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62455	Thank you. We have also heard from our authorised representative in the debate so far, Mrs. Kovacevic Zaric pointed out in her presentation how much problems we face in the area of justice, given the situation we have encountered, taking into account everything we have inherited and especially what efforts we are making to correct the situation that has resulted, above all, from the catastrophic reforms of the judiciary carried out by yellow pests in 2009. That assessment of the catastrophic reform, it's not an assessment of someone from the SNS, it's an evaluation of the Venice Commission. So more than 700 judges were cleared for so-called. They weren't members of the yellow company, so they were cleared. And then the judges sued you, brought the proceedings, got the verdicts, and thus the state budget was damaged by over 30m euros. Therefore, judges were appointed on the party's key exclusively to party proposals, and you all remember the already famous Vlasotanc case, when the president of the municipal board, along with the president of the municipality, proposed, or sent letters of various characterising candidates for prosecutors and judges. And many more similar problems that have arisen with such a relationship to the judiciary, but also with such a relationship with the state. There's movement, there's good results. We also heard that the efficiency of the judiciary is at a much higher level today, and that today the average duration of the litigation is 253 days, unlike their time when it was twice as much, so 500 and a few days was an average, but I think we have to work on restoring citizens' trust, primarily, in our judicial system, in our judiciary, even though it's not an easy job, given what they've left behind. In doing so, I find the most ridiculous regrets that come to the expense of the situation in the judiciary, at the expense of the violation of the independence of the judiciary by the parties of the former regime. Here, for example, this Majic, whom Mrs Malusic spoke of earlier, I don't know whether he is a judge or a writer or a blogger, as he presents himself, but he participated in the release of so-called. Gjilan groups, so-called Former Kosovo Liberation Army. And he's a top critic. Or, for example, that Vladimir Gajic. The president of the National Party's legal council, Vuk Jeremic, who, except for the fact that he only tweeted something all day, except for that, is only known for being arrested in that big Genex Mafia affair or Genex Group during 2007, when they were arrested for the multimillion-dollar damage to the state budget. They were lurking with squares, scrambling with construction plots, with buildings. In any case, the budget was damaged by more than 20m euros on that occasion. They're these legal and moral clumps that are making us feel bad today, and they're the only ones who can take it from us. Or there's that case of God Prelevic. The on-call speaker at these ridiculous gatherings is "One out of five million" or the Alliance for Serbia or whatever they are called, it doesn't matter. People say there are serious indications, in that sense, that Boza Prelevic has taken people's pond in Baja's garden, a pond of great value. He used his lawyer connections to the very remains of the former regime, which today is digging in our justice system, and he kidnapped the pond people. For the second time, I also appeal to the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, having spoken to them, with an idea, therefore, to consider this play, because from the documentation they have come to me, or which they have delivered to me, I can see that it is a serious affair. Several court proceedings are currently in this case, and I would not comment on the cases myself at this time, but I have to ask – why the dissipation of the proceedings for over eight years? Eight years of this trial. Has the right to trial been violated within a reasonable period of time or has someone been deliberately trying to drag, to delay and extend this trial? He says that Prelevic was on N1 the other day, where other than N1 said the laws don't apply to members of the SNS. I ask him, and do the laws apply to him and his friends, especially his friends from the Alliance for Serbia and those from the "One of the Five Million" that can obviously go unpunished in institutions? They're breaking into RTS, breaking into the Rectorate, chasing people down the streets with the intention of lynching and no one at all. Do the laws apply to them? For all these reasons, I would like to stress the importance of all of us working together to repair all of those bad elements that have destroyed our judiciary for years, and in order to restore our citizens' trust in our judiciary and in the judicial function in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62456	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The People's Messenger Jovica Jevtic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Yevtice.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62457	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, members of the High Council of the judiciary, I would like to say, above all, that I really think that we are all aware that the situation in our judiciary is at a lower level than we would like it to be. The genealogy of this problem is likely hidden in many of the wrong decisions created by the area of justice in past times. After the country's five-octobaric changes, the judiciary took the top judges, who in the 1990s in different ways, often and publicly, to support and announce the DOS's coming to power. They had additional support from NGOs and international institutions. The actions of these judges and the implementation of the judicial reform have slowly spread to a larger front during this period, thanks to the fact that the President of the courts appointed by the new authorities could have acted openly now. Anyone who wasn't on that line was in danger of being marked and classified in a group of those judges that needed to be conducted so-called. lustration. Otherwise, at the time, lustration was a very popular term at all the gatherings, conferences and pronounced it as a mantra, already mentioned first fighters, undecided, meaning that anyone who doesn't think like them should be removed from the judiciary. Since most of the first-time judges' dosses were in later working years, they were working intensively to rejuvenate the court's staff. The judiciary is brought into justice by young forces who consistently accept and implement their mentors' policies. That's the same thing that happens to prosecutors. It is widely known that it was a period of full Tekunisation of Serbia. It all started first with robbery privatisations, and yet under expert surveillance from the outside. The plan was more than obvious, destroying everything good and making Serbia obedient. In order for all of this to be successfully done and implemented, adequate and human resources in the judiciary were necessary. These are the ones who, apart from being open to any kind of co-operation with foreign mentors, will be similar to protecting newly-roasted rich people. The Serbian judiciary thus enters a whole new stage of life and work in which the honour and dignity of the profession is replaced by the protection of its majesty – private capital, at all costs. It was known that the polling for the judge's office was mostly left to DS and their coalition partners. This also enabled tycoon power centers, as their financials, to provide their judges. Anything for God's sakes, if a thief goes wrong and someone still has to face justice. In the famous re-election of judges in 2009, everything was in play. Only the least consideration was given to the actual quality of judges, work results and other character traits. Everything culminated during the re-election of judges in December 2009. It is widely known what some media have written that DS committees have made choices for judges and prosecutors. The re-election advantage was seen by those that DS officials or secret police officers at the local level as supporters of the party or those who gave all legal aid to foreigners ten years ago. What happened then was learned only after the change of government in 2012. Some state drawers found lists of judges and prosecutors for the 2009 re-election, and despite their names, there were notes about who intervened for them or against them. That's how the names of many tycoons appear. This could be said, quite understandable and expected, given the fact that individuals, who have seized most of the state's resources through robbery privatisation, have no doubt an interest in obtaining a wealth of protection, and that protection primarily includes judicial protection as the last dam of illegality. This was particularly important with regard to the election of judges and presidents of economic courts, as well as those working with criminal cases. Of course, the judiciary isn't enough for all the tycoon maneuvers, always ready to steal from the budget. To this end, laws were needed as a framework for such machinations, and there was always a congregational majority who had designed and adopted the regulations exactly as appropriate, suits from the most expensive staffs and their proud owners. The rule was then introduced that judges were elected to a three-year term during the first election, so that from 2,400 judges, as long as there were before the re-election, 870 of them did not pass the re-election, but that is why so many new judges were elected to the three-year term. That's how the former regime got 870 of its new judges, who were then elected to the old term after one failure. Namely, after three years of being elected to a permanent term, it was necessary for their work to be evaluated, and it was reportedly forgotten to prescribe criteria for assessing their work, all at the end of 2012 were elected to a permanent term and thus became a permanent judge position. They must be very grateful to their proposings, and so they wouldn't. The debtors know they have to repay the debt at that time, i.e. judge. It is well known that almost, at that time, the resolved judges returned to the system and that the budget cost the adventure. The target of the yellow octopus has been achieved. They've put their judges in the system and they're here until today. It's an interesting fact that a number of judges went to law school and began to pursue politics intensively. The example is Vladimir Vukinic, a former judge of the Special Court who tried the famous Miskovic case and returned his passport. He goes to law school, immediately becomes a party member and becomes a member of the National Party representative Vuk Jeremic. Does this mean that he was politically prone to this side as he shared justice? It's hard to believe he didn't get his political gene working in law school. How many biases and double standards are shown and now current judges illustrate the statement of Judges of the Court of Appeal, Miodrag Majic, who in the interview at N1 recently declares, quote – I believe that judges are afraid, live in different fears, cannot live in fear if we see how many cases insubordinations have led to negative outcomes for their colleagues. In doing so, we have never heard a similar statement from the same man when the 2009 re-election took place in which he progressed. The case of Judge Dragana Boljevic, otherwise the European year in the field of communication, the recognition she received from the first European law house in 2012, is well known, as well as the fact that it was precisely thanks to the change of political actors in 2012. On the N1 on Live Day, Dragana Boljevic says, quotes – if the state first behaves according to the rule of law, and when I say, I mean, first of all, politicians, institutions they run, the situation would be much better. It is probably the same state that allowed the unreelected judges to return to the system should never forget the fact that the members and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors only in the second half of 2012, only after the change of power experienced some kind of enlightenment, so they began the process of returning judges to the system. On the basis of everything said, it is more than obvious that the successes of this famous judicial reform are the following -- the loss of the reputation of Serbia as a state, the reputation of judicial institutions and the reputation of judges as an individual, the general legal chaos, dissatisfaction and fear, the media hack against certain judges who have judged by conscience, and not by dictatorship, the departure of a vast number of honorable people from the court, the most often lawyers, the construction, the expensive adaptation of a few objects, and the devastation and destruction of a vast number of other objects used for judicial purposes, the general downturning of justice to the continuous media hacks, poor staff policies and many, many other successes that we do not remember. The basis of these successes is the current policy, a businessman from the judiciary at the time, but there remains one living issue, a living question - why have the yellow judges progressed since 2012 and why are they still the first on the progress lists today? Is there really no better or are these sharp octopuses indestructible in their tentacles? We'll get the answers in the next period. I really hope that the list of proposals for setting up certain functions in the judiciary and the prosecution, which is in front of us today and we are discussing, is a step in the direction that leads to the resolution of the accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62458	Thank you, colleague Yevtić. The word is Milanka Jevtic Vukojičić. Here you go, Mrs. Jevtic Vukojičić. I'm sorry. Vladimir Orlic is on the list. Dr. Orlic, please. Excuse me, Mrs. Vukoicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62459	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, whenever we talk about justice, it is inevitable that there are issues that attract public attention. That's what I've always said, whenever a subject related to the judiciary is found either in the National Assembly or in general in a public debate in any way, it is directly related to the widest possible public attention, and so I would say when it comes to those good things, good for all of our society, or for the judiciary in general, but logically and understandablely, even more attention is present when it comes to those other phenomena not so good. It was here today during, I would say, a lot of quality debates and congratulations to all those who took part in it and invited the state to take better care of both prosecutors and judges on its part and when there is room to take care of their standards, which means receiving. When I say good things in our society, let's just say that would be one of them. Just a few days ago, we, this National Assembly, have made a decision to approve an increase in public sector wages and among different categories of public sector employees, it seems to me, if I am not mistaken, that 9% of the planned increase is, among other things, for judges and prosecutors. This is certainly something that, with all the other increases, of course, Serbia can see as a good fact, as a good consequence of all the efforts that we have put together as a society, to strengthen our finances and create space so that we can and to significantly improve further each time for a little more standard of living for the citizens of Serbia. Among other good things that may not be directly related to judges and prosecutors personally, but are with the right of the people to adequate protection against the law, and as far as the National Assembly is concerned, it is also worth reminding of the laws that we have adopted in this meeting not so long ago. One concerns the introduction of additional protection for all Serbian citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. Remember for sure, that was the personal promise of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, to these people and that promise was fulfilled. Second thing, alterations and additions to the law on enforcement and security. We have, here, put additional protection in place for all those people who have been burdened with the executioners, so for certain categories of debt to the amount of 5,000 euros, there is now no longer any kind of pressure on the citizens and that is also one of the promises fulfilled. That's good stuff. On the other hand, there are things that we, as you noticed, criticise for a clear reason. These things stem, among other things, from certain judges themselves. The name Miodrag Majic was mentioned several times today for several reasons, of course. I'll just remind you how the story of it all started. The fact that this man has given himself the right to determine what the MPs can or cannot do, they say, how to vote and how to ask themselves certain questions, as far as legislative proposals are concerned. Then, of course, the book opened up, and the public of Serbia found out that there was not one, but a dozen different scandals, but I would like to read only a few sentences I believe have not heard before. These are the words of Miodrag Majic from September this year, September 19th. It's about "The Weekly," that's what the magazine for which he gave the interview is called. Listen to this, says Miodrag Majic – this is our society today, a society that guarantees an absolute backdrop because those who know nothing, while clearly alluding to the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, are those who do not know anything, drive trucks, buses, treat us, figure out how to look gambling in the Republic Square etc. He calls in the same interview to stand up to it, to make people stand up to it. As long as most people keep quiet and don't say there's nothing wrong with health care, journalism, regulatory bodies serve nothing, etc., he says, it won't be good for this society. This is politics. This is purely policy-making that doesn't even have anything to do with the fact that someone who's a judge might be dealing with the question of the conditions under which judges work, the situation in the judiciary, with the profession, has nothing to do with this. This is your policy in the general practice category. There is a serious question – do we expect that there is some appropriate credibility for people who are judges, and they deal with politics, and you know best whether this is something that needs to be allowed by someone who is a judge and what this has to do with his work at all. When we react to certain obviously harmful, even unacceptable phenomena in our society, we react to that. To do justice under different pressures by people who allow themselves absolutely everything and everything and that's a fact. Today, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia has pointed to that very fact. In today's statement, this association called on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors to respond urgently to the pressures that some politicians and defenders have been exerting in recent days because, in this way, the association considers it an intense threat to the independence of judges and prosecutors. They say what they specifically mean – a case that has been spoken of by MP Markovic, that the leader of the Dvera movement, imagine – leader, Bosko Obradović, otherwise it is a national MP who has not been coming to work for a year, but who is properly paid for his place in Dedinj, that you know who it is, no longer has a parliamentary group, but should be there as we talk about this, the man has had a kind of performance, as they call it, in the Court of Commerce in Belgrade and there with his scroll, first, opposed security, then they have been lurking the halls in some celebratory atmosphere, photographed and filmed without any authority all around him. What were they doing so nice they wanted to record? They glued stickers everywhere, by offices, by inventory, and as Bosko Obradovic himself says on that occasion – he did just because it was not allowed. He demonstrated man and force and haughtiness. Of course, he threatened the President of the Court, and then, with the conclusion of this fantastic ingenious activity, he said: "The judges are pathetic, the servants, the villains in the Serbian judiciary, that they will all answer, that they will not escape, he has promised to publish their names, the names of the handling holders of judicial functions and that they will all be lustrated." This is the kind of pressure judges and prosecutors face, and unfortunately today you see who they come from. Otherwise, this idea of lustrating everything and everyone isn't a newspaper. These same people in these circles, these ideas and threats like this, they come, they say, every day for months. To remind you, the lustration, the ban on doing business, they promised themselves, and I now quote to you exactly what they said, to all politicians who don't like them, all of us here, both in the Assembly and in the Government and who do any other work, but also to all the judges and prosecutors who don't like them, and that wasn't enough for them, but they told all the appointed persons, and they even went so far as to tell all the editors of the media that they didn't like. What it reminds people when they listen like this, here I am specifically aware of some of the measures that existed, it seems to me in Germany in 1933, it seems to me in July of that year, there was a law on the ban on the formation of political organisations, and you remember very well who might have adopted that law. Who was in power in 1933 in Germany. And that goes quite hand in hand with other things that these same people, this Bosko Obradovic, but also others who belong to the organisation Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others who are together with them, offer Serbian citizens and what actually makes their only political offer. And this burning of books that we've all witnessed, a few days or nights ago, so it has its foothold and its example historically if you want right back in 1933, to the soul a little earlier, in the spring of that year. They know who burned the books, they'd say the only one in history. It was done again by the German Nazis, the same ones who subsequently banned others from dealing with politics, did so on Operaen's salary in Berlin, were doing so in Munich, the brew continued in several other cities, and it never occurred to anyone in Serbia to work, never to anyone. There is no time that has been so difficult by its challenges that individuals who will burn books appear, not during the Second War or later, and here they have thought to do so these days, in this time, in the middle of Belgrade, in the middle of the Prince of Michael. These are pressures, among other things, on the judiciary, but they would say common sense in Serbia, and that is the only political offer of these people. When we talk about pressures, these people will say in every way that they are threatened, they will say that they do not have adequate protection either by the prosecution nor by the courts, and these people at the same time, not even by completing the thought, without putting a point on a sentence, in the same breath that they deliver the worst, most disgustingly to a decent man the most unacceptable accusations against other people, without any evidence and a shred of responsibility in it will never be as it is never. And they do it every day, among other things, they do it today. At the press conferences, the MPs themselves who are supposed to be sitting here, it's fair and fair, and if the salaries are already received from this Assembly, and they receive, they all receive and have no problem with it, they have defiled through this hallway here and repeated the disgusting lies at the expense of Minister Stefanovic and his family. And today, in their reasonings and their new fantasies, they came to terms with the essence of their message and their attack. They came directly to accuse, of course, the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, who, in each of their attacks, is in each of their campaigns, of course, the primary goal, that ultimate target, of course, puts their target devices on him whatever they do, it was always known. Well, it has been confirmed today that that is exactly what this case is about, and it seems to me, first of all, that the vice president of this party bought by Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, next to her and Alexic, Jeremic, Zoran Zivkovic, I don't know who else was there, they all leaned nicely on that same story. They repeated brutal lies at the expense of Minister Stefanovic, at the expense of his father, his family, and then, imagine, what kind of construction they made, wrapped up in a joint indictment of Alexander Vukic and everyone else who, according to Marinika Tepic, made a clan of war profiteers all together, and repeated all those notorious nonsenses that had already clearly killed both the Ministry of Defence and the company itself, "Krusik". That the company "Krusik" was badly damaged that, of course, Aleksandar Vukic, Nebojsa Stefanovic and others participated in it, said and so she added – besides being war profiters, the Assembly is a freak, and that they have, now watch this – new information they have received from some of their alarmers. That alarmer is now a very popular word. You've heard that there's already a man they call an alarmer without any excuse, and about the situation in Krusik. If he wasn't any alarmer, so would his defender, because if he was an alarmer, the defense attorney would have asked him for his status. Since it is not, it was clear to him that this has nothing to do with each other, but that we are not going back to a hundred times certain stories, says Vice-President Gilas' party, Marinika Tepic – their alarmers have exposed the entire international clan commanded by Aleksandar Vucic. And he says, "With him are two of them, I think she said, "The Palestinians." The last name of the men of Madalala and Dahla. Then comes the whole story of who's the foreign spy, who's the secret agent, who escaped Interpol, who escaped from Mars, who from Jupiter, an excellent plot for a good action movie, but there's one big problem with that story. The problem, of course, has its own name and that name is the Internet. Whoever has the internet in Serbia today, and thank God, we've evolved enough to have almost everyone, can check all these stories within a few minutes to see if there's anything like it. When you check that out, and it took me maybe three to three and a half minutes, what does it say? All these stories have their own source, and this source is not any alarmers that have appeared, so they sent something to Dragan Gilas or his faithful associates on the phone. The source is, you'll be surprised maybe, you won't be sure, "Tabloid" magazine. That's what they call a newspaper, a "Tabloid" magazine. If you first hear about it, although I believe that almost everyone in Serbia has heard about it, but let me tell you, it is the most disgusting thing that exists on the media scene. It's a content that can't be compared to anything. It's literally nothing. If you think that you have heard the most disgusting thing in the world from the mouth of Sergei Trifunović or from Gilas's Todorovic or from Željko Vesenovic, which called for the rape of Ana Brnabic, you know, those from this tabloid are even deeper than all of that. These are people who are the most monstrous things a human brain can think of, publish publicly, print, sell on kiosks. They accused Alexander Vukic, not once, but a million times, of the most disgusting things a human brain can come up with. So they did it openly and they're not ashamed of it. Milovan Brkic who leads them, whenever sued, draws on incompetence. So much for their reliability about the accuracy of what they have to say or say. But something so disgusting also served as a source for these things that she read here today in one breath of Marinika Tepic, and so, when you look at those three, three and a half minutes, you don't need it anymore, you see that stories about some Adali and Dahlan, those from the magazine "Tabloid" Brkic, were published in number 362, 379, 400, that all meant it was three years ago and stronger, and now they're starting to recycle, so there are numbers from today and yesterday. That's the thinking part of Serbia, that's the elite, that's all the nicest and smartest that Serbia has to offer themselves. People who accuse other people of killing their children, that's what they do. Those are the sources and that's the magazine. These people later serve you the puzzling lies that repeat here, all the important, Gilas' political representatives, convinced that they had all the minds of the world picked up. That's what others did, so we understand each other, in this Suzie. The castles did the same, accusing Alexander Vukic of being, along with the international cartel of banks and city carriers. Imagine that fantasy. We tell them nice – people, so it's from the tabloids, there's one on the Internet you know what it is. It's in the media world worse than a cop fudo. They say -- we know, but we don't care. Because they know what they care about, they don't have any more MPs, they can't find two members all over the country. But that level of logic, regardless, culture and whatever you want, is delivered today by Dragan Gilas. And that's absolutely all a decent and honest man needs to know on these charges. To get the story a little serious now, everyone wants to check if there's something or not in a particular story and when these Gilas say it, it's damaged "Cruik", I don't know what. What does a decent, yet serious man do? He'll take it and check the data. And now you go and look at the "Kruika" financial report from February this year, to see what the current situation is like. Is there really something that this company is suffering? Is someone doing him any harm? Do you know what you find in that financial report, and this report was read by these Gilas's "screams", "birnos", and I am now reading to you what they have concluded to be in that financial report, what Gilas's people have concluded is doing the "Krusik". They say, in 2018, the company ended up in plus half a billion dinars, in 2017, the company ended up in plus twice as big, a billion whole, in the last few years hiring twice as many people as it used to be. So, in their time, let's not talk about how it was devastated, and this company, and every other company, and what they looked like and how regular they were. Now, twice as many people work, the company works successfully, year after year and says – signed contracts have enough for full capacity for the next two years. Does this sound like someone's doing some damage to that company? Not to me. I don't believe anyone sounds like they're doing any damage to this company, and they can be found on the APR. So that's how you seriously check the data. Shall we keep the seriousness? They accuse the faceless, unfeelingly own state of Gilasi, Jeremici, their Dvorashi, fascists of trading arms illegally and arming terrorists. They are few to agree on themselves, but then they took to do the installation, so they made some imaginary, mounted contribution to “Rasa Tudej” television, and they put photos of the minister, members of his family, on the right side of it, to a non-existent title. What no one said in that article they wrote as if they were. All of them were perfectly few, and they say - Serbia is trading with terrorists, and it does not have anything to do with it, but look at this now, there is an international organisation dealing with the analysis of transparency in the export of arms and military equipment for each country. The organisation is called "Small Arms Trade Survey" has its own barometer of transparency. The transparency barometer ranks the state and the international document, an international research organisation, you know what it says about Serbia how transparent it is in the export of arms and military equipment to top five countries. Top five states year by year, years already. You take a look at the report for this year, last published in 2018, Serbia is after Switzerland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Italy fifth in the world for transparency, the fifth best country. Better than Germany, who, know the people who follow this from year to year, has been the top of it for years. To be better than the German one in this, that's a fantastic thing. It is an honor for every country, and this is how the one who is interested in the truth checks out and can only be satisfied with the situation in that company and the fact that his country is so ranked and that they experience it in the world and, of course, the fact that they are not worth the lies that the dog with the butter would not eat, which are the ultimate political wisdom of Dragan Gilas and his camel. But when they say someone's a war profiter, here's two questions to think about. The first question to think about is whether the status of a war profiter may be placed metaphorically on the account of these people of Gilas, Jeremic, Dveri and these chauš who send here to say anything. They want people, they say they're in power and they say, how, they want to be in power by letting the force declare them minister, that's what they're saying these days, without any choice. They say they want that power to last nine months, and because they want it so much, the elections in Serbia are delayed. When you tell them how you delay, people, choices that are scheduled within a period of time, and that is not according to the Constitution, they say, "Well, find some way there." It says in the Constitution – so it cannot unless it is a state of emergency or a state of war. They say, "What do we care?" So, they would like to maybe declare war in Serbia, why? In order for them to be in power and to have that power for at least nine months, to be at the level of the ministries, and that is little to be at the level of public enterprises, and that is little to be at the level of local self-government and to last for at least nine months. Now, if they want a war situation to be declared in Serbia by God in order for them to be power, then are they some kind of war profiteers and when there is no war, of course? Let's get this thing a little bit more serious. What kind of profiteers make themselves directly economical at a time of conflict that is also armed, reminds us of the 2011 case. The case was discussed in northern Kosovo Mitrovica several months ago by the director of KBC in the city, Milan Ivanovic, and remembered in 2011 and the blockades. You remember the situation because of what was set between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, when the then "yellow company" led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, and all others, who again today all together and these disgusting things speak and do disgusting things, were all together, set the border between Serbs and Serbs, and these same today, of course, point finger at Alexander Vukic and say, "He is a traitor, he wants to give up something of ours in Kosovo and Metohija, and they set a limit." In front of the International Court of Justice, the paper that separatists today waved and said: "This is all ours, here, Jeremic gave us black paper on white in the name of Serbia." But when they did, it was a blockade organised by Serbs living in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Listen to KBC's memory of that period, he says -- the Serbs then set up concrete barricades between the north and south of Mitrovica, and then these Albanian police officers in the north, so those who must have transported Croatian helicopters to take the border had no fuel. The man, I quote -- oil from the southern part of Kosovo and Metohija couldn't get to the north, because we set up major concrete barricades. When Albanian police officers and their border units ran out of oil, Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic handed them tanks from central Serbia, I have evidence of that, the man said. We were in wonder at the time, we knew the Albanians didn't have any fuel, and all of a sudden there they were with the jeeps, selling fuel says man. What kind of profit is this, and what kind of profit is this? While the fire is burning there, and our people are being shot at by the bare hands, it seems that someone, according to eyewitness testimony, has decided to make a profit on it. What a profit it is, it may be a good question for those who now know everything, but also for the people who are in the prosecution and the courts dealing with this issue. As for our attitude towards KIM, as far as Alexander Vukic is concerned, I will not say anything new, I will only read to you in a minute or two words from the patriarch of the Serbian Patriarch during the award of the Order of St. Save to Alexander Vukic, and this is exactly the issue. That's when the patriarch said we shouldn't mention what he's doing tirelessly and the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. He has done great deeds, not only for our times and opportunities, but for all Serbia and its future. To listen to those who accuse Alexander Vukic without shame and shame, they themselves gave everything they could give, and they cashed in on their own giving of careers, which, as soon as possible and concretely, provided themselves with the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which was disastrously defeated in Serbia, set that limit, and there is nothing they did not help those who are not on the side of our interests, but are directly opposed to them. To hear and to say that the patriarch said that the President of the Republic has paved Serbia's ways in Europe and the world and that, after his efforts today, Serbia is spoken of and thought differently. People see it, and the world knows it, with its efforts and work, by opening up to the world, all the economy in Serbia has taken a major step forward. It took a lot of sacrifice, state wisdom, a lot of sense for the Serbian people to change in the right way. Serbia got the roads it wanted a hundred years ago, with the factory opening, which should help stop our country leaving, stop leaving our country and at KIM, but also in any other part. These are results that the church recognizes among other things. They still say that some of them deliberately claim that the Wolf will betray them, and I ask them, the patriarch asks them, what is the evidence, what do you bear witness to? Do you see how much a man fights? Whatever he wanted, if he wanted to, he could have done it a long time ago, but no, he's fighting to preserve his people at KIM, to preserve the people on our land. Gratitude for the lion's struggle, for the Serb people at KIM, on that behalf we give him the highest honor to adorn his breasts for all he does and what he will do in the future for the good of the Serbian people. As the patriarch said and how he sees and feels the church, so your brother feels, feels, sees and recognizes the efforts and results of Alexander Vukic and when it comes to KIM and when it comes to Serbia as a whole, surely 60% of the people in this country are the least. Those most concerned, just Serbs at KIM, you know how, asked them ten days ago, they say -- 98% of us say these words are from first to last true, and appreciates the lion's struggle by Alexander Vukic for KIM, knows that he defends both them and their interest and their future and the future of their children. As long as Serbia sees it, understands, this man and this policy supports it, Serbia will be able to produce results for itself, to be wise enough to know as much for us as there will be happiness and justice in the white world by others, of course observed, as we ourselves are able to fight with a wise and smart policy. As far as justice is concerned within Serbia, it is certainly important and is one of our greatest obligations. We will, of course, need good judges and good people at the head of the courts, so according to that definition, we from the SNS will vote tomorrow with all the praises that we have made today, but also with all those reserves that we have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62460	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62461	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the VSS, my colleagues from the SNS today spoke extensively and in detail about this subject. We have before us a proposal to elect judges who are first elected to serve as judges, as well as a proposal by the President of the Courts, as well as a proposal on the discharge of the Public Prosecutor in the Kingdom. What I must first say is that in the day of voting, the SNS will certainly, starting, first of all, from the principles of honor, professionalism, dignity and high morals of all the proposed candidates, vote for candidates in the hope that they will honestly, honestly, and responsibly, only in accordance with the law and the Constitution, work and make judgments, first of all, on behalf of the people. Also, I would like to point out that the procedure itself has been carried out in a transparent way, that the judges who are first elected to the judge's office may notice that, apart from legal knowledge, they have other knowledge and skills, such as knowledge of foreign languages, two and more, computer skills, many certifications from seminars, training, workshops, etc. Also, in the case of judges who are elected court presidents, I will only point out the two presidents of the court, and that is the President of the Supreme Court in Uzic, Mr Zecevic and the President of the Court of Commerce, also in Uzic. It's people with years of jurisprudence. It's about judges who worked in different legal matter, which gives them an additional positive sign that they can successfully perform executive functions, but now I'm going to get back to square one. The justice system is one of the four pillars of every state. Unfortunately, in 2012, the SNS had neither inherited nor inherited the foundations, let alone pillars after the rule for more than ten years of a yellow tycoon, a thief's company. In 2009, in the most brutal way possible from the judiciary and the prosecution, 1,100 judges were fired, completely counter-constitutional. The Constitutional Court brought judges and prosecutors back to work, but fortunately for them, but unfortunately for the citizens, it cost 17m euros and this country. So, their game of reform, the yellow tycoon company, was relocated to the back of citizens, because in order for Dragan Gilas to be rich today, he was rich for 500m euros if he hadn't been rich in public office for the account and at the expense of Serbian citizens. Also, I must point out that in 2010, the yellow tycoon company made a disastrous decision to abolish the basic courts. There were 138 basic courts in Serbia. They reduced it to 34 basic courts and to a mass of judicial units that were extremely inefficient. What did they accomplish by doing that? They have achieved this in order for citizens to have access to justice far and inaccessible. That's what the yellow tycoon company was doing, all against the interest of an ordinary citizen, not in their interest. I must say that instead of nine courts in Belgrade with that new network of courts, there are only two courts left in Belgrade, and in South Bačka County where 607,000 inhabitants live, there is only one basic court and that court in Novi Sad. Fortunately, by coming to the post of Minister in 2012, Nikola Selakovic, the network of courts has been corrected and many municipalities have received their basic courts, thus improving the efficiency of the judiciary, but also making it possible for citizens to have access to justice. Also, I have to say that although justice is one huge system, this is an area where there's still a lot of work to be done. I have to say, since 2014, a lot has been done, above all, to invest in the infrastructure facilities of the judicial authorities. Why does it matter? Because by investing in judicial facilities, such as The Court of Justice in Belgrade, or such as the beginning of the construction of the Palace of Justice in Kragujevac or such as the Court of Justice in Arangelovac, or such as the Business Court in Užica, allows judges to more frequently appoint their own hearings and to give citizens, businessmen and other entities their verdicts within a reasonable time. I must stress that the Justice Reform Strategy with an action plan and a Strategy to prevent the fight against corruption was adopted immediately in 2012. For SNS, corruption tolerance is zero. Therefore, I must point out that on 1 March 2018, the departments of senior courts and senior public prosecutors for the control of crime and corruption started to work and that 500 convictions have already been made, including officials. This means that the SNS respects only the law and only in accordance with the law and the Constitution behaves, there is no unprotected, we are all equal before the law. Of course, as far as the Alliance for Serbia is concerned, it's another aggregate state of this yellow tycoon company, it's actually the haters of success. Serbia's success is decorated in the image and daily work and works of Aleksandr Vukic, the SNS government. These Serbian haters are the people who promote rape, who promote hanging, who promote slapping, who promote death threats and know nothing more than to insult, and in particular it is tempting for them to insult women. Of course, I have to mention that the Justice Union at the Gerdap Hotel, in Kladovo in 2012, really organized at the time of that yellow tycoon company, really organized one bahanalium, and I own the pictures that came out of one daily list, but it just embarrassed me to show, two naked women's bodies were served food and from these naked women's bodies, the unions of justice took food. What we stand for and what is indisputable that the prosecution should do and the prosecution is to initiate the procedure and deal with all those who bring in motor saws, which break glass on RTS, which burn books in the 21st century, so that's the fascist mark of burning books in the middle of Belgrade. Belgrade has always been a free city, always come to Belgrade those whose books have been banned and always found here the opportunity to promote their books. Today, unfortunately, this yellow tycoon company, Gilas, Tadic, Obradovic, in downtown Belgrade, burns books. So that's what we have to deal with. The prosecutor's office must take steps to process all those who carry out terror in Belgrade with violence and terror, and ultimately spread Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62462	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62463	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. It is our turn to say something at all about the judiciary, given that today we have decisions on the choice of those who will work in the justice system. One of the priorities of the Ministry of Justice is certainly the revision of the Action Plan for Chapter 23, i.e. the improvement of the normative framework that will provide security to both the state and the citizens and restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system. What is important in this sense is that today the average duration of the case is 253 days, and in 2012, we remember, it was more than 560 days. Of course, working on the efficiency of the courts must not jeopardise the quality of the work of these courts, nor the quality of justice that must be available to citizens. That's why we're working on laws, but we're working on internal regulations, and their application creates statistics that show us some progress. Also, projects have been implemented in co-operation with the EU to provide judges and prosecutors with specific training. Another priority is the fight against corruption, and there is also four major regional centres, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kralje, in addition to other institutions and other resolution ministries. Therefore, the number of convictions has been increased, which has been assessed as positive, condemning convictions for crimes with a corrupt element, most often for abuse of positions. In the first year since some new legal solutions were applied, there have been more than 400 condemnative verdicts, and what the accent particularly puts on is that they were not protected persons who were in high positions or performed high functions. I certainly believe that co-operation between the National Assembly and the Ministry of Justice is at an envious level, even more than on a satisfactory level, and only such a partnership can result in the adoption of laws whose application will be to the benefit of citizens. We'll probably have more bills from the Department of Justice's jurisdiction, and then we'll talk about the justice system a little bit more detail. So today we talked about both the judicial system and some of the current developments in the country, and we talked about some day-to-day policy issues, and also about how the judicial proceedings that came into the media are actually characterized as political persecution. I suppose the debate was interesting, especially for those who were first elected to judicial functions. Their path to this moment has not been easy, and it will not be any further, and I think it is good that we in parliament point to behaviours that can affect the reduction of independence in the work of the judge or the prosecutor or things that may put the investigation at issue if, at the wrong moment, clarity is familiar with the details of the case. We are witnessing that there are some people in Serbia who think that they are politicians and who think that the opposition, who have no support for the people and are therefore ready for anything, and even as I have already said today, are making certain judicial proceedings political. They're not ready, they're not fit to go to the election. They've decided to start a boycott campaign that, we've seen, these days consists of stickers. They are prone to vandalism and endangering public order and peace. They break glass when they break into RTS or other institutions. They're pouring mud in front of the community. They take home saws and gallows when they go for a long walk. They call democracy what they took over the recession. They're threatening slaps on social networks. We've seen each of them pick one of us out of the SNS to slap. MPs who have joined the Alliance for Serbia boycott the work of this Assembly, but do not boycott salaries, do not boycott travel expenses, do not boycott official travels. They behave as non-workers and as streetmen, and they will never have the support of citizens. I propose that we leave the streets to the street, to leave Parliament and other institutions to MPs who want to work in this House and other people who want to work, and to leave the courts to judges who have to judge by the Constitution and by the laws, safely, committed and impartially, as they have sworn. At the end of this debate on the proposals for decisions that are ahead of us, I would like to thank all my colleagues and representatives of the High Council of the judiciary for a constructive and quality debate and for the exchange of information, which will certainly help you in your work, as well as our MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-10-22-0.u62464	Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on the motions for decisions in point. The 1st and 2nd agendas. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, October 23rd, 2019, starting at 9.45pm, as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. This is what we'd end up with today's work.
