ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59873	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on special conditions for the realisation of projects for building apartments for security personnel, you have received amendments, which were submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. At the title of the bill, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59874	Mr. Djordjevic, you know that we have a positive opinion about your government representation because you, as a representative of the ruling coalition, never really hesitate, and that is the job of every minister in the government, to speak and answer the questions of MPs and participate, both in the debate in principle, when the laws are not from your portfolio and in particular. Perhaps, in the past term, you were a military minister and you are now running a resort that includes disabled homeland wars, children of fallen fighters and all those people who may one day come into a situation to get a roof over their heads, but it was definitely here to sit down and respond to the amendments of Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, whose bill is exactly the one we are discussing. It's amazing that, except that the session starts with an hour of delay, we just thought that she has some mini meeting, a conversation today, that's the end of the week, with Kyle Scott, or to see how the Bechtel representatives are going to start this 300m-euro kidnapping operation out of the budget, so I'm saying, let's wait and wait for that 11.00 hours, however -- it's not there. As far as this law is concerned, Mr. Minister, you were probably in a position to follow, I know that when you have opportunities to do so, when there are no laws in your area. This law is not good. It's not good because he only included one category of employees, and these are people who work in the Security Sector. We first, when the law was passed last year, said we were expressing our suspicion that in cities where certain locations for making these apartments would go so smoothly. I'll only talk about the Kragujevac I come from. A location has been designated for the construction of these apartments, with 1029 apartments to be built, in the first phase of 216 or 226, on the location of Denino hill. It's really a disaster. A disaster for the reason that Radomir Nikolic has still deceived you by the current mayor of Kragujevac. The government of Serbia that should invest that much money, and therefore all those interested security forces that will compete for these apartments, under these privileged conditions. That location is completely urbanally unsettled. You know what a meadow means? A meadow where it takes just that long, Mr. Djordjevic, to invest money for the collector, for the sewer system, for the plumbing and for that, and for the gas stations, for the new trafoes. Now that you add it all together, that accompanying infrastructure is probably still that much, or it goes beyond the amount of the cost of building all those squares that we're considering. The town of Kragujevac cannot finance it because the city is in debt of over 100m euros, the last loan Radomir Nikolic took from the nine and a half million euros, MPs from the ruling coalition also know. The city will be in a situation where there will be a complete collapse. You just can't just not look at all the circumstances of getting into some projects with the uncertainty of their completion.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59875	By amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59876	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move to the amendment, I want to point out something very important, which is that members of the Alliance for Serbia, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and none of the other leaders of that Alliance for Serbia have yet, although it has passed all day long, found no way to determine, fence and condemn one of the most monstrous tweets that calls for persecution, lynch and rape of the president of the Republic of Serbia, his family and his children. Chairman, give me a minute to read you what this is about. Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the Republic after a successful completion of the project related to Jelizara Smederevo, a project that will provide hundreds and hundreds of workers, jobs, a project worth hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, has been published tweets saying – this is a very important day for us, for Serbia, for Smederevo, for the workers who work here, because the Chinese have confirmed this new investment that they want to stay here, that they want to invest because they believe in the success of Jelizara. On his tweet, one of the members of the Alliance for Serbia wrote "How much more regret? As long as you're dead by the J. I'll shove you on K, you snotty militia, you dork. “ I don’t think this is recorded in Serbia’s recent history. This kind of monstrous threat, this scandalous insult of children and underage children of the President of the Republic has so far been unrecorded. I think every institution in Serbia must react by emergency procedure. I think every relevant factor in Serbia and political and every other must find a way to condemn such a monstrous insult to the president of the Republic and children of the minor. Representatives of the Alliance for Serbia, why do I mention them? Because the person who wrote this isn't mentally distracted, it's not about any lunatic, so he can be forgiven for mental detachment or madness. The person who wrote this is the activist of the Alliance for Serbia, constantly writing such and similar comments, and on social networks, the Alliance for Serbia is following them, or their orders on social networks. So this is about political hatred, this isn't about madness. This is a direct consequence of the atmosphere of lynching, fear, violence and hate speech conducted for months by the Alliance for Serbia led by Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and others. I think the D.A., the D.A., must immediately process these and similar phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59877	The word has a folk ambassador Jelena Žarić Kovacevic You want a replica? [[The Faith of Radeta: I had a replica.]] Excuse me, colleague. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59878	As a colleague said earlier, there's no big deal about what's on the agenda today, but really what happened to this tweet about the children of Alexander Vukic is something that is absolutely unacceptable, especially when it comes to his teenage daughter. When someone attacks a underage child this way, it's a pedophile. That he attacked Twitter because he was able to do it on Twitter, that someone would do it, and God forbid he met him in person. We don't have any of that, here, and we're attacking and condemning both you and every common sense that condemns it, but we're asking the authorities to find the most urgent author of this really terrible text, it's a little embarrassing, it's something really dangerous and it's the most urgent procession and that the public is informed that someone is finally for such monstrous things and seriously punished. We have legal frameworks. That's all we need to use. The fact that we're going to be talking about this whole day, the weak way. So they have to protect not only the children of Alexander Vukic, they have to protect all the children, and this is the reason, so that everyone normally condemns what someone wrote. You know, now someone's gonna say someone sick, some kind of mind, like that, sorry Twitter is a means, in a certain way, public information, all of us are more or less showing up on that social network and on other social networks and we're experiencing things, and they're writing things to us, but as long as it's within some limits where life isn't threatened, let's also be patient and put up with what we're going to do, but this message to the underage child of Alexander Vukic is something that really has to happen most quickly to experience a judicial epilogue. That someone has to be punished, here's for pedophilia, not only did he write it publicly, but because he showed obvious pedophile proclivities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59879	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59880	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, I join my colleagues. After Gilas' dirty campaign, there was a direct threat to the children of our president, Mr. Vukic. After several weeks of campaigning, the worst hatred, after NIN, in which on 92 pages only spit Mr. Vukic's President, took place the scariest, scariest, most monstrous attack on the children of President Vukic. Supporters Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic, their devastating and hate campaigns that have been campaigning against the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family for years, once again attacked the children of Aleksandr Vukic in a monstrous way. On Twitter, at the official order of Serbian President Vukic, in which he told yesterday how important it was to attract Chinese investment in Serbia, because we are working, we are responsible people, the user replied under the pseudonym "Alexandrism" and referred the disgusting threats to the children of Vukic. I ask that this man be found and processed. We women, in front of the SNS, have zero tolerance for violence. This has gone too far. Thank you for your attention, and I'll be in touch by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59881	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59882	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Minister Djordjevic, yesterday we condemn and today we condemn the most terrible insults of the family of Alexander Vukic, children of Alexander Vukic. That only tells us how they behave, it only tells us what kind of people we are dealing with, but that gives us an answer to the question – why? Because Alexander Vukic in this country did something that nobody did, because he opened up a lot of jobs, because he promoted absolutely every segment of the state and society, and I'm not going to count all his successes now because of time. Now I'm going to show you how much his victory was in the election and how everyone who talks about it is being attacked. So various associations have flooded the social networks with my assessment as a person who has abused the facts, Truthtimer, the National Coalition for decentralisation, I don't know how well this is seen, "I choose how I choose" and similar associations, various NGOs, various and so-called and just-called institutes with great experts, have, in fact, abused social networks and made false. And then it goes on. When all those rude people come forward afterwards, they honor us with a variety of insults. And here's a tweet by Slavko Tatic, which says that I told lies of nonsense, counterfeits, various insults, etc. Do you know who Slavko Daddy is? Slavko Tatic is the father of Bogdan Tatic, president of the DS Municipal Committee on Vrakar. Bogdan Tatic is known for numerous affairs, for numerous malfeasances while exercising power in the municipality. There's all the information you can find on the Internet, so that it's not now that I'm misusing facts and I'm saying something in my head or I'm telling the truth, you can go online, so check out who Bogdan Tatic is. From parking tickets to serious crime, all along with physical attacks on SNS activists who spoke to citizens. So I would tell the gentleman that when he raises his son to be cultural and to be honest, then he should judge others' statements. Until then, I am left to greet them with more than two million votes received by Aleksandar Vukic, which are those in these tweets and in these posts and have admitted that he has won, let them look at the official statistics of RIK, which is the only relevant factor in Serbia when it comes to the original process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59883	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59884	Thank you, Chairman. I want to join the convictions of my colleagues who have led to the attacks on the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic, his family, and above all, the monstrous, terrible, horrible, disgusting threats that have been made to his daughter, Milic and son Daniel and Vukan. That's creepy. But I want to ask that part of the public in Serbia who is silent, that small part of the public who is silent. Is he not ashamed, are they not ashamed to remain silent while someone's daughter, the president of the Republic, is threatened with rape while the son is threatened with murder? I call on these NGOs and various other organisations that are advertised every day in certain media, attacking the SNS, attacking investments, President Vukic, the SNS MPs, all the well-intentioned people in this country, to remember that in one second, they have been convicted of assaulting the president's family. Is it a shame, in one second that you're silent, which for months, not only yesterday, but for months and years has Alexander Vukic and his family suffered the worst threats to his family, father, mother, children? It is the responsibility not only of us who are dealing with politics to come out here and condemn it, but of every man in Serbia who deals with public affairs, who has access to any kind of media, not just Twitter, by electronic, some other, news, to come out and say it's time to stop violence in Serbia, to stop these calls, and we're going to stop this not only by sanctioning that idiot who used Twitter, not by promoting some policy, because they don't have a policy. But we have to sanction those people who are the inspirers of it, those who motivate such assholes to come to mind every day to sit down for a keyboard and write such tweets. Inspirators must be prosecuted and condemned, so that violence in Serbia does not exist, otherwise I fear that we will come into a much more dangerous situation than the threat of Twitter itself. My message to them and to Dragan Gilas and the other lunatics of the Serbian rape alliance, away from the children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I from this place, as chairman at this moment fully join the demands of MPs Aleksandr Markovic, Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Malušić, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Serbia's Filipovic, in their call to respond to the competent state authorities. Of course, one of these means of communication through the social network and threats to the children of the President of the Republic is one of the most common cowardice acts and nothing else. It cannot be justified in any way and cannot be left unpunished, and I call on the state authorities to find out, in accordance with the law, who is behind this profile, bring justice and punishment in the way provided for by the laws that we bring here in the National Assembly. Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59886	This is, let's just say the sequel to how we started today's session, and it really needs all of us, we need to focus first of all on the fact that Alexander Vukic's daughter is a minor child, that none of her and her peers, her schoolmates, can hide what appeared on Twitter. You need to think about how a underage kid is mentally experiencing this? Will he have trauma? How long will it follow her through life, because she was attacked by a pedophile. This isn't just about what someone wrote on Twitter. It's about the fact that the underage daughter of the president of the state attacked a pedophile, that because of what, it's amazing and to imagine what she's suffering as a child now when she's heard about this and when she listens to this, but the question of how her schoolmates will react is going to have consequences? You know, this is a much wider problem than what he's trying to introduce himself in some way. And that's why it's most important here, much more important than our conviction, that the minister of police hires all the forces and that the most urgent minister of police go public with information that this paedophile has been found, arrested and handed over to the authorities. And that someone can only be tried as a pedophile, not as some typewriter on Twitter, but as a paedophile dangerous, not only for Wolf's daughter, but for every underage girl near him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59887	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59888	Thank you, Vice President. I, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, condemn the same on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group. I don't have any harder words to say, because what we've experienced these days is beyond all limits of normality. I join all the MPs who insist on the state reacting. I have to point out the following. In 2016's elections, Serbian citizens gave this ruling majority nearly 70% support. We've given government support, from the government, to the departments of power, to ask them to do their job. I ask that laws be respected and that those who disturb, who do these monstrous things really have consequences. There's something else I want to say. You know, we're politicians, we're public figures, citizens of Serbia, our work, our actions judge in elections, only in elections. We're waiting for the 2020 election. Be assured that the results we've achieved that we will win them by a very large margin this time too. That is why I ask and insist that we do our job, because the citizens of Serbia expect it from us. That's why they gave us trust. Indeed, politicians should only respond to the citizens of Serbia who choose them and stop drawing targets on everyone, especially us from the ruling position. I advocate that political space be a normal space, that it is no longer polluted for the simple reason that we may have results and the state of Serbia lead and go this way, as does the ruling majority, as President Aleksandar Vukic. We must become a normal European country. That's what we stand for and fight for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59889	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59890	Thank you so much to all MPs and all the parliamentary groups who today condemned that foolish act of hatred and violence against the child of the president of the Republic of Serbia. I also speak as MPs, I speak as speaker of Parliament, but I speak as president of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. What's scary next to that morbid, monstrous language that was said yesterday and those threats that were made at the expense of the daughter of the president of the Republic of Serbia is even worse than the fact that part of our society continued to remain silent. Part of our society didn't get the strength to condemn yesterday what happened to the president's daughter. I agree that when hatred overcomes reason, then we have situations to insult children, politicians, become something common. We are in a situation where our society is slowly due to all the morbid messages that have recently been referred to the president of the state, somehow getting used to the fact that it's normal for you to criticize, hate the president of the state and politicians from the ruling majority, that it's kind of normal to threaten both their relatives or threaten their children. The UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child was adopted 30 years ago in this country. This country should be proud to be one of the first in the world to ratify this convention. What we have certainly done first in the world, it is that we have printed as a state in Serbian, at that time, in Croatian, at that time, with Cyrillic and Latin letters, this UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child. So, first in the world at that time. Since then, only 30 years have passed, to face today's hatred for children, who are guilty and who are the target of assault and the most monstrous threats to rape, murder, torture, harassment, just because their mom or dad are politicians and only because Little Militia is the father of the Republic of Serbia. It should be a shame for anyone who doesn't feel uncomfortable at least when he was in a situation yesterday to read what some monster sent to Alexander Vukic's daughter. If you can keep quiet today, then talk a lot about them, not about us and not about Alexander Wolfie and not about his children. We really have to draw the line once and say, "That's enough." This has nothing to do with politics. This has nothing to do with our political differences anymore. This is a war between normal, healthy Serbia and monsters. He's right, the head of one of the parliamentary groups, who spoke before me, when he says -- everything he has to say about the president of the state and about all of us as politicians, will be said in the elections. It was the only criterion so far, the only criterion for whether a politician is doing his job well or not. Other ways do not mean democracy, other ways mean violence, violence and the expression of the infirmities of those who cannot get the confidence of Serbian citizens to lead the state of Serbia. Of course we all need to support both the M.O.P. and all the other and security organizations, the agencies, and the judiciary, and all of us to find out who's behind that message, means to find out who's the individual behind that message he wrote, but also to analyze a little bit more deeply what's behind it. Every second, third day we condemn something and go to another day where something worse comes up. Then we go on the third day and I don't know what else to wait for. Indeed, if someone did not condemn, and not only do I mean politicians, but society as a whole, what happened yesterday to the underage child of the president of the Republic of Serbia, then we should condemn those, and organisations and those whose job it is to do, well, I'm not afraid to say, and certain politicians. Because what further do we need to talk to them about if they can't stand up to the judgment of the vomit, the morbidities we read and heard yesterday, which are directed to the underage girl? I am convinced that, the interior minister was on the trail yesterday and said they knew who the perpetrator was, so we will talk about it when we see who it is, with whom he intends to send these messages to one child, but we are ready to talk about it at some of the sessions, so what Serbia's public image in certain media today looks like. The social networks have become media and very influential, and how we as a parliament, and all the parliaments of the world fight against the negativity that social networks carry with them. It's no censorship to fight crime, to fight maniacs, to fight thugs, to fight lowlifes, no censorship. So, as Parliament, we have to find the answer to how together we stand up to what happens from day to day. I'll finish my speech. The political struggle in Serbia has never been the abuse of one's children before. We know it happened in 2000, but in 2019, the president of the Republic of Serbia and his children, on a daily basis, with worse and worse messages, threats and I don't know what's going on behind it. As a society, we must find an answer to what a part of our society today looks like. And in the elections, I have no doubt that Serbian citizens will recognize and re-vote for Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic of Serbia and for the SNS and for all our coalition partners, as well as for all normal and reasonable political options, without voting in favour of... Unfortunately, another threatening message has arrived, which means that at the right time here we are talking about that Alexander Vukic has arrived from the same tweeter that he's been searching for and that he's given him a sentence of threats and curses and curses, that he wants his seed and tribe to be destroyed. So what's happening today in our society is multiple dangers. We no longer deal with laws, we no longer deal with positive things, we no longer deal with good children who bring medals into this country from different areas, we no longer deal with artists who contribute to our culture. We're just dealing with society with false news, insults and threats at the expense of one man and, worse still, he says every day that he's ready for it because he's the president of the state, even though I don't think he should ever be ready for insults, threats, curses, just political dialogue. I'm getting chilly that someone thinks that normal communication with the president of the state and with any politician in our country is going to put pressure on him every day, because he's going to threaten his children. So, it's time for us to share, regardless of political differences, that's what happened in parliament today, your discussions, we say -- there's been a lot of violence against the children of politicians, especially the children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, because lately only his family is the target of these terrible, morbid threats and messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59891	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59892	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, above all, respected citizens of Serbia, the Alliance for Serbia's policy consists of insult and violence. There's nothing else in their politics. The scariest thing is when they insult the citizens of Serbia. And we insist that both Zivkovic and Djilas and Jeremic and Obradovic apologize to all Serbian citizens who have a different opinion than theirs for all the insults they are constantly giving them. I wonder if anywhere in Europe there is a country where the opposition, apart from running a campaign of insults and violence, insults citizens for not voting for them and not letting them rob state resources again? With this act of insulting the children of the President of the Republic, they have touched the bottom and we can no longer tolerate it. We call on the institutions to react, because these things have gone too far. These things are monstrous. To impose such a burden on a minor girl only because the daughter of the President of the Republic is the most brutal act the Alliance for Serbia has shown so far. If they run politics like this, threatening underage children, they should withdraw from political life and commit themselves to self-examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59893	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59894	I thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers, honourable MPs, the most playful, most brutal, the most monstrous way of life is to experience over children, the most innocent. This time it is the innocent who did not deserve it, and these are the children of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. It's not a political fight anymore. That came out of a political struggle. It's something that's for a public conviction and it's a good thing that condemnation comes from here from this Parliament, so that the public wakes up. All MPs of the SPS, our entire assembly of MPs, strongly condemns one such ghastly, insolent, criminal act, where the victims are those who cannot be victims. Dear colleagues, we are mostly parents, most of us have children. The lack of empathy in this situation, the lack of consciousness to protect children is very dangerous. Those who forget it for political reasons have strayed, not only on the political scene, but also in political life and in life at all. They don't deserve to be where they are. Our President, Ivica Dacic, made it clear yesterday, loud and unequivocally expressed his view of the SPS with the strongest conviction against something that doesn't even make sense, let alone the idea that such a thing could happen. We will not call the Minister of the Interior to take responsibility, measures, activities that he is, by law, carrying out, and he made it clear yesterday, loudly said. We have every right to all of us together, but literally everyone sitting here, asking the institutions of the judicial system and the prosecution and the courts, or the court to sharpen, regardless of the threatened sentence, regardless of the time to which that punishment may be imposed, is the most severe punishment that exists within the limits of legal, of course, powers. If there is no such thing, we will be in a position to open the door to anarchy and threaten the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. We will not allow those who intend to do so, and who, apparently, have tried to express it this way. Furthermore, as so far, we believe that every one of these most disgusting, most criminal acts should be combated as much as possible. This isn't for no reason. This is the moment when the Republic of Serbia achieves the best possible results, results that have not been recorded so far and these results have been verified in the best possible way by President Aleksandar Vukic. Unfortunately, his children became the target because of these results. Once again, all SPS MPs strongly condemn such a disgusting spell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59895	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59896	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without doubting that the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office will do their part of the job and determine who it is, risking these nicknames from the NGO's sector condemning what I'm about to say, but I simply can't remind everyone that this is still a country of peasants, a host country in the Balkans. Anyone who keeps to himself knows what a man who curses or insults a woman is willing to do to you, and anyone who offends a woman knows absolutely what to expect from someone whose child is offended. With all due respect to Alexander Vukic and his willingness to put up with this, I call upon the judicial authorities when this asshole comes to them, that they must have no mercy. If they show mercy to something like this, I fear that others in Serbia will have to take justice into their own hands when they find themselves in a similar situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59897	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, colleague Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59898	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, as one of the MPs who has pointed out these phenomena in time, many times in this high home, allow me to say, once again, as a man who has been following social relations, in particular attacks against the President of the Republic for the last seven, eight years, we have witnessed permanent but truly permanent, everyday, unseen, malicious, media and every other attack on the President of the Republic, his family, his brother, his mother in time, and that is very important to say, when he is making superhuman efforts to find a lasting, fair, compromise solution for our southern Serbian province, and especially these days they have been directed, beside him and his family, and to the closest associates of Dr Nebojsuš Stefanovic and, I must say, most of the People's MP Dr. Aleksandr Martinović. Dear ladies and gentlemen, imagine when that was said right at the moment when huge successes happen. The opposition will never forgive him for his success, not only his, but the success of the state and the success of all those who follow him. Imagine when one of the oppositions says these days – we will no longer force them, quote them, and he is a professor of the university, but with armed force and blood will fall, but let's see less blood fall. It's a finished quote. Imagine when one of the leaders from the Alliance for Serbia from the sea was interrupted. That's the one who said, quote, he's going to pee on the president's grave. It's a finished quote. I quote to myself, he said, I'll tell one truth, says this Sergei Trifunovic, called "pisoe", I'm a fool, he says for himself, and I'll still collect a few fools to fuck them up. It's a finished quote. You bring in, gentlemen, MPs, this statement and a statement from the university professor with yesterday's Twitterian. It's day-to-day, hour-to-hour. I called the Serbian Public Prosecutor's Office several times here. What's the D.A. waiting for? If it performs its function in accordance with Article 305, 321. Serbia's criminal code? Resign, gentlemen, if you have any morals. Talk to us, answer us more, and no one's filed any criminal charges. Here's your assignment. Here, we speak here from the National Assembly. It's enough to hear on the street, not just to speak to the MPs of the people. This came, as our people would say, from the bottom of the snake. This is a threat to their children, not to the MPs, but to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, gentlemen of the Serbian Public Prosecutor's Office, resign if you are unable to do your job. Be truly worthy of the work you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59899	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59900	I thank my colleague Arsic. My colleague Jovanovic said a lot. Only in a few sentences, because I consider it primarily my moral obligation, and through the discussion you will understand why. So, this is a continuation of the creation and production of alleged affairs and inventions that draw targets at the head of the families of the legitimately elected president of the state, who has huge trust and support of the citizens, is above all I would say the character of the most terrestrial and bizarre negative campaign, which speaks most of all about the character of those who campaign and implement. You know, the lack of political influence and power, the lack of ideas and programmes, the inability to show their strength in a democratic, argumentated debate, the causes are, above all, more and more present primitives, shameful speeches, violence and hatred. The more a man drills, our people say, the more primitive he is. Violence and hatred are not good for citizens, they are not building, they are not contributing, on the contrary - quite the opposite. It is clear that there are still slogans in Serbia, the worse for Serbia, the better for them, that is, but it will not and will not be able to cast a shadow of the positive news and results that are the interest of citizens and which have been achieved by dedicated, dedicated, serious work both the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These and such political gromats are unrecognizable in the electoral body and I personally believe that this will be confirmed by the next election cycle. However, in all of this, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a key matter of decency and we have spoken of it many times. Competence means that we throw out everything negative from the public discourse, but courtesy means both responsible and serious to carry out the work for which you have taken responsibility, but also to bear the consequences for what has been said, done or done, and there should certainly be a response by the competent authorities. The family, gentlemen, is the core of civilization and strength rests in the integrity of the family. I will now be, perhaps, personal, but it is my moral obligation. Aleksandar Vucic knows this very well - we share the values and responsibilities of the route to Serbia's future, the future concerning every family and future that concerns every citizen of Serbia. I'm sorry to be personal again, but for me in one of the most difficult times, Alexander Vukic, and most of you, but Alexander Vukic, too, was the support of my family, because I also know that family is not only one important thing, but family is everything, but that's above all and respect. That's something and that's a word they don't understand and don't touch the minds of those who are always for hate, and against everything that the ruling coalition does and just like that, with no alternative and no proposal, just to hear criticism for criticism. So today, first of all as a man, as a parent, I can't stay silent and just look at what the quasi politicians are prepared for, for the sake of power and privilege, and that if possible without a choice. I apologize again for being personal and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59901	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59902	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the SDPS and the head of the parliamentary club and the party of course condemned such a brutal act that took place and directed against the family and against the children of President Alexander Vukic, I feel the need to, as vice president of Parliament and of course as a man and as his associate, say a few words and make a summary, or a little return to the near past and say that all this is happening, all that has culminated in the past days, is not by chance and is not news on our political scene. What is essential is to say that all those who chose this time to insult, to attack President Alexander Vukic's family, to attack his children, that it was only the tip of the iceberg, that it was started when he became the first vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2012. For the sake of the public, I will remind - a large number of tabloids, magazines, portals, NGOs who spoke and spoke the most monstrous things about him, about his family, about his brother, about his parents, and even a few weeks ago about Ksenija Vukic, terrible attacks by the Alliance with Serbia, specifically by Mladjan Djordjevic, who filed even some criminal charges against her, all in terms of and in order to bring it down and to arrive in one violent way, brutally in power and to come to all of those benefits and privileges that they lost in 2012. In fact, in this way they show all the lack of politics, all the lack of ideas, initiatives, industriousness, commitment and freedom to say as a colleague, as a folk MP, patriotism, everything President Vukic has done in the past seven years, what he is doing and what he will do in view of all public opinion research and what they do not have, and in the near future he will have, and that is the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Currently, Vucica supports between 60% and 65% of Serbian citizens. I understand frustration and I understand impotence. It's human. I can't understand this Sodom and Gomorrah, which is also described in the Bible, in the New Testament. That's how people behaved two thousand years ago, so they were punished. After two thousand years, we have similar behavior. The attack on children, the underage child of the president of the Republic under a political struggle firm. In recent history and in the recent political theory, we cannot find an example like this, I can't say, it's not even a political struggle, this is one total madness that has affected certain people and part of the Serbian opposition that in every way wants to be dealt with with by the President of the Republic by not choosing any means. What are the reactions to that? What kind of people are they that are not at any point in the past two days, what kind of organisations are they, what free media are they free to say for no single moment -- people this is not a matter of politics, this is not a question of Alexander Vukic, SNS, this is a question of Serbia, this is a matter of common sense. They can't behave like this, they can't support this by political parties, they can't support this by NGOs. My colleague Atlagic said nicely – where is the prosecution? What are we people pretending to be here? We've been calling for months, years for political dialogue. A man's been working for seven years to build this country, and it's no good. Okay, it's okay. It is not worth 100km of highways per year, Belgrade is not good on water, investments from Germany, America, the Russian Federation, China are not good. It's not a good track. It's okay. Because you don't have 3% or 2% or 1.5%, the Wolf has 60%. But to support and to remain silent on such brutal and uncivilized behavior, I feel sorry for Serbia, respected by my colleagues. I'm sorry that there are political entities here who are silent about this in 2019 and maybe they're showing off somewhere, and maybe somewhere they're laughing and celebrating that someone's, so they're able to say and attack his family like that, next to the tabloids, next to magazines and social networks. Can people sit down and make some consensus, can we pass some law, we're a legislative body, against this false news, false information, against this cyber crime that's happening right now in our country. I know it is a problem not only Serbia, the problem is the region, the problem is Europe, the problem is the whole world, but let's do something for our country, let's support it, as many of my colleagues did today, the integrity of not one man, but first we don't have that culture respect for the institutions of this country, we don't respect it. These people, these leaders, don't respect the flag of this country, don't respect the authorities of this country, don't respect the institutions, don't have it anywhere in the world for people to go abroad or when someone comes from abroad spits on their country. There's no such thing. Will it once be taken into consideration, respect for this flag, not to laugh at that mast that will be built where a Serbian flag that will be proud to be seen from all parts of Belgrade will be placed. Will more be taken into consideration and begin to respect this country, our political system, our legitimate interests. Someone mentioned earlier, so do you think it's a coincidence that this is happening at the time that Serbia is fighting a decisive battle for its legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. So that Vidovdan passed, and many dates passed when they said that Vukic would surrender Kosovo and Metohija. When they said he was alone, that he had no support at all, so the President of France came here and he was two days old, giving Serbia the greatest honor since the time after the First World War, since the time when both French D'Epara and French generals and General Fushe, who offered King Alexander then to have one of the occupied zones under Serbia's control. Because Serbia had a reputation, because Serbia had a leader like it does now, which has something that these people don't have, which is this dear fellow, cheek. The face and desire and the will to defend Serbia every day, every moment, that it is stronger economically, that it is stronger military and that we are not ashamed to mark any date and respect our victims, to respect our country and never allow bad things to happen in the future. And I'm sure it's not an accident, and I'm sure they want to weaken Vukic and our country in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, because they no longer have the ground under their feet and that Serbia is weak in the interest of many and that they work in the interest of many and is not in the interest of all of which Serbia has 3.5 billion foreign direct investments, as all together in the region do not have as much when they gather. It is not everyone's right that Serbia is getting weapons, promoting its army, promoting its police, so we have attacks on who, and on another man of the state. And to Nebojsa Stefanovic. So it should not be overly politically experienced and referred to a political theory to see that it is orchestrated, that it is instrumentalised and what is worst, that it is out and that it is contrary to the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, all fellow political entities must stand side by side today, against this evil, against the coup against the family, against the foundations of Serbian society, which are Serbian patriotism, the Serbian church, the Serb army and the economically strong Serbia from all that Aleksandar Vucic does. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59903	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59904	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, all JS MPs join all colleagues and colleagues who, in their statements, condemned and reviledly realized that what I read just a few days ago, appeared in the press today in attacks against the family of Alexander Vukic, the president of the state. This is proof of what yesterday's JS President Dragan Markovic Palma asked the police minister to finally start applying the law to all alike in Serbia. Not only should the police have a job here, they should have other judicial and prosecutorial authorities here, as well as some medical facilities. In fact, if someone is sick, they need to be treated, if someone is mentally disturbed, there are institutions in Serbia where such people are placed for a long period of time. By the circumstances, I know of two, one is in the Bees of Kragujevac, one is in Topnica at Nis, and those who write such disgusting things should be placed there for a longer period of time than 15, 20, 30 years, may never come out and should not go out, because they can never be useful members of society. The one who's got the strength and the brains, if he's got it at all, to attack someone's family, to attack underage children, women's especially, and even if it's family and children of the President of the Republic, what to comment on such a man, about such faces, about such people? We need to comment and see who their employers are, where these NGOs, associations, are diverse to hear now, to condemn? They're nowhere to be found except for certain honorable exceptions. Unfortunately, it seems that in Serbia, in a small part of Serbia, it is to our joy, and when I say unfortunately, there is one saying that everything can be forgiven in Serbia, but no success at all. Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the political forces in this country who support such a policy of the Prime Minister and government policy, know their way, know that Serbia is going the right way, know that living in Serbia is better every day, that in Serbia there is more and more employees and less unemployed, know that wages in Serbia will reach an average of over 500 euros very quickly, know that young people should stay in this country and that their future and the formation of their family are looking for here. At the same time, I call primarily on all young people and everyone else in this country to stand in the way of these sick minds who find it appropriate to treat some of their frustrations by publishing such abominations and so forth through social networks. Once again, I say, all MPs and all the members of the J.S. with an indignation condemn all that could be read, and probably a lot of things that can't be read, and we're looking for another one of all the competent institutions, not just from the police and the prosecution and the judicial authorities to go decisively, and we're all going to fight these kinds of phenomena together, and we're going to put them where they belong, and in our presentation, I've told them where such a place is, so let them enjoy it there with their contemporaries and let them write what they want. Once again, the JS parliamentary group is joining the convictions and we will do everything in our power to help Serbia no longer experience such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59905	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59906	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I suppose, and I believe that everyone who sits in this room, at least from the majority of the ruling and those who are not in the O.R., that we are unique in condemning one of these disgusting things. I believe that all colleagues, who have spoken so far, are right when it comes to institutions that are competent to fight these things, are apostrophe to the MUP. I'm very glad, and I think we're in this together, if it were in the fight against this kind of thing, I'd say monsters, very important that we all, or the general public, condemn and move against this phenomenon and trend, which is growing. But I'd like to point out something that isn't mentioned here when these things are, and I'm going to start by reminding all of you of the unfortunate two situations we had four or five years ago, I don't know exactly when, but at that time the president of the state was Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, and the Prime Minister was then Mr. Alexander Vukic. We had a situation that for the first time, Mr. President of the time, he informed the public that he had been undercover, and after a few months, the same was heard by the public from the then Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Then it's all public, especially the media were screaming for a few weeks at who did it. The key question wasn't who did it, the key question was just like what it is today, and I'm going to say about it a little bit, the key question is how could it have happened? And you know why? We're talking about here today and we're apostrophysing in this thing the role of the MUP, and it has a role in it, at least as someone, as an institution that needs to drive such things, whether it's an attack on family, citizen or president of the state. But we have an institution, a constitution set up in a state system, which is counterintelligence protection for officials and institutions. Therefore, there is a counterintelligence service, which is constantly the first task it has to protect the president of the state, and when it protects the president of the state or any other official, it means protecting the family. We didn't, after four or five years, get any answers on either side, whether then an actor was found and discovered how they managed to listen to the president of the state and the Prime Minister, and in this case I don't care who he is. But we were not informed in the Assembly or as citizens that the service had finished and done. That's why we have a further escalation and we will have it in such a situation and beyond, and I now sign it for you, no matter how much we and the public fought it, and it has its own importance and role, but the profession, the service involved, must also be involved in protecting the president. That's what I was gonna say, and I'm gonna tell you something in the end. You know, since I've been in the assembly, I've always been speaking sitting, because I think, by the way, that all MPs should be speaking sitting down because this technique isn't made for speaking, because it's getting lost and we don't often hear people. But no matter how much I sit, I will rise up out of respect and ask on behalf of a group of PUPS MPs the president of Mr. Vukic's state, not to be so tolerated in the sense of being -- I will put up with everything and go public with it. He has no right for us who give him, who stand, the vast majority, behind him, to put up with it and to allow him to suffer such things. By not showing it, I know he's doing it out of the most positive intentions, showing tolerance, he's going to help us all fight it, because he's not going to do such a performance as he's done so far, encouraging these thieves, bastards, monsters, I don't know what to call them, you've been giving them a lot of names. So much for us. The PUPS MP group, to say it in a decadent, absolutely in the strictest way, uniquely condemns everything you've been saying, not to repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59907	The word has a People's Messenger, Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59908	Dear colleagues, I have been in this high home for 22 years and I couldn't imagine, and I'm sure many of my colleagues, that there will come a time when representatives of the former regime will fall so low that their only political programme of violence and hatred is that they only think that hate can defeat President Vukic, who has stopped Serbia's robbery and collapse. I would ask Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and many others in the former regime, how do they feel at times when they are threatened by rape, when they are declared dead? How would you feel if it were happening to their children? Would they be able to stand by and keep giving orders to their fighters to do so? Do they have at least a little humanity in them? Do they know that it does not deserve Serbian citizens to deserve exactly what the current government is doing, what the President of the Republic is doing by moving the path to a better quality of life for citizens. One of my colleagues said they support it and keep quiet. No, they don't support it and they don't, they give orders to do it. They daily speak to their fighters and create politics in Serbia, that politics be just hate, hatred for President Vukic, towards the SNS. Are these various, independent media, which also daily propagate, "N1", "Today", which with their texts, by drawing a target at the head of the President of the Republic and the families of his associates? How did we all feel when we saw a woman, a baby in a wheelchair following strangers and going after her into the hall? Can that woman go out on the street today after that trauma she suffered? Are we going to allow in Serbia to present a political programme in this way and prepare for what they think they deserve, which is to perform public functions? I've already said that in my statements a month ago, about the plans that have been made, about the warrants that have been given and everything that's going to happen and what's going on these days. And that's why I am now giving myself the right, as president of the Security Control Committee, to ask the Ministry of the Interior, the Department of High-Technology Crime, not only to discover, because it's already done, the perpetrators who in this way are making it monstrous that one child can't go out on the street. And we've already talked here, not just because it's a child, about children, about little Milica and Daniel of the President of the Republic, but we can expect all of us here today to try to change something in Serbia, because some others who think they haven't robbed enough and destroyed Serbia think they can get their trust to do it again. I simply ask them not only to sanction and no longer to think that this is what happens to children, to political insolents, to women, and to this Parliament, and we have experienced, that one prime minister is threatened by rape, that the president of parliament enters the cabinet, that they attack her, that they threaten her, and all the women here, who try to say and say through what is deserved, in what way the former regime has destroyed Serbia. That they must both security services and the Ministry of the Interior show that it is not something that can be done in Serbia, and that not only those who do so, but those who give them orders, those who get money for what they say to their fighters, they media, call independent media, and those false representatives of elites who show daily, because they think hate is the only way to defeat SNS and President Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59909	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go, colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59910	I thank you, Chairman. I, as well as my fellow predecessors, as president of the United Peasants' Party, as a man, as a son, as a brother, would condemn all that is done against children, condemn all that is written about these children, and whoever, and especially the children of our Serbian president, Mr. Vukic, because he as a man leads Serbia, advocates Serbia and as a man, has received the highest support of citizens in the elections. I speak this now on this holy day, in a red letter, to the glory of the Holy Archangel Gavrilo, where many Serbs celebrate today, today also a church in the village of Pirkovac called the Holy Archangel Gavrilo, where many believers come. I invite all people, all Serbs, all Orthodox believers, all those who live in Serbia, in any part of Serbia, to condemn together these people who speak in this way for children, for daughters, especially for daughters, all that does not like, what is ugly, I will not talk about it, because my predecessors have said. Once again, as President of the United Peasants' Party, as a man, on this holy day, on the Holy Archangel of Gavril, I call on everyone to speak in the language of goodness, honesty, belief in good, belief in what our government and our President of Serbia are doing. Once again I condemn, as a man, the language of hate, what they write and what people who really shouldn't be where they are, but should be, as a colleague from Jagodina just said, there are institutions and in Nis that such people can accept, and there are even more places in Belgrade. Once again, dear colleagues, today is a holy day, the Holy Archangel Gabriel, let us be men, let us honor all and condemn all those who say such things that should never be mentioned again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59911	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague. (Alexandra Tomic: I answered before. ) I will now read the order, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, Aleksandra Tomic, Ljubisa Stojmirović, Ivan Bauer, Ognje Pantović, Olivera Pesic and Zoran Bojanić. Ask for a word, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59912	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, I strongly condemn the human freak in the image of a tweeter who in the most harsh way insulted the children of our President Alexander Vukic. Insulting the children of Alexander Vukic, he struck on what is most sacred to every parent. Alexander Vukic, apart from being president of the Republic of Serbia, is certainly also the parent of the son of Danila and two underage children. They hit, this Twitter player, this human freak, this human bottom hit what's most sacred to one parent, and these are his children. Calling for the death of a son, calling for the rape of a minor child is something that can be expressed in one word, which is inhumanity, human creation and human freak, which is what promotes the Alliance for Serbia, or the Alliance against Serbia, in the characters of the tycoon, the characters of those who brought misery, misery to our families and our children, which is Dragan Đilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and their pals, depicted in character and an actor who would urinate on President Aleksandr Vukic's grave. However, Serbia and Serbian citizens know that the values promoted by Aleksandar Vukic will win, that good will always win evil, that normally they will always win what is abnormal, that decent will always win rudely, that love will always win hate and that life will always win death. What this human freak or freak is, I don't know if it's male or female, no matter what kind, but it's common that human freak, what bothers her is the success that our President Alexander Vukic shows in all fields, both in the country and abroad. Success seems to be unforgivable to Alexander Vukic, but the people know and the people will give support to the one who leads Serbia into prosperity, and that is Aleksandar Vukic, not in misery and evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59913	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59914	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good that we all agree on one thing to condemn these phenomena. I believe that every normal in Serbia condemns something like this. I, as an individual, condemn this and hope that such phenomena will no longer occur in Serbia or anywhere else. At the same time, I expect the authorities to do their job quickly and efficiently and sanction this properly. Above all, we must have one goal, which is to take care of the little militia, which is to preserve that beautiful young creature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59915	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59916	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the political condemnation of this act is very clear, and it was brought out by our president of the parliamentary group and I don't think there's anything to add. You know, here I've been sitting in the National Assembly for seven years, this is my third term, I've never said a single personal position for these three mandates, and I don't think there should be personal opinions in the Assembly, but today I have to make a personal point. Today I will not speak as a MP, today I will speak as an ordinary citizen, as a man and as a parent in the first place. I want to ask a few questions to all of us - what's going on with us? What are we sinking into? Have we forgotten our moral values? Have we forgotten our traditional values? Have we forgotten what is the greatest sanctity? Who can hit the kids? How can you hit someone's kid? You don't have to love Alexander Vukic, if you don't love him, don't vote for him, but his child or his children are not responsible for you don't love him, or if you don't love him or if he doesn't like you, they have no responsibility. No child in this world bears any responsibility for his parent’s lack of sympathy. We must learn to respect the saints. Minister Stefanovic and our police, or the MUP, will resolve this, but will remain bitter in the mouth afterwards, because we forgot to respect our children. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59917	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Firenjan Pantovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59918	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Serbian People's Party strongly condemns the terrible threats sent to the president of the state and his family. A hatred spread through the media and through social networks by individual opposition politicians has reached its peak and has crossed all limits of decency in a political struggle in a democratic society. Now that Serbia needs a national gathering to defend our Kosovo, to defend our Republika Srpska and in the conditions of enormous pressures that we are exposed to as a state of individual representatives of the opposition have led to the creation of an atmosphere in which violence and the murder of family members of elected citizens are openly threatened. The Serbian People's Party is urging today, as well as yesterday, the authorities to react urgently in terms of protecting the family of the president of the Republic of Serbia. The answer must be strong, fast and legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59919	The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59920	I thank the chairman. Today we are all in this room united and MPs of the SNS and all our coalition partners and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, that what is happening today in Serbia is not suitable for any civilized society. It is high time to stand in the way of this kind of Internet violence being waged against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and above all on his family and on his underage children. Prostakluk, primitiveism, aggression, a call for rape and a call for death is something that as a society, we must never allow and in this respect call on the competent authorities to find, bring justice and the most severe punishment of the person who has in the most primitive way insulted the president of the Republic of Serbia and threatened his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59921	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59922	Thank you. If this evil that prevailed in Serbia should stand in the way, political struggle is a political struggle, and evil is evil and evil should be destroyed. I will end up here as an MP and I will be personal, as were George and Ivan Bauer. I want to give my support not to the President of the Republic, but to one man Alexander Vukic and his family, one great man. Because that man, once upon a time, when we were a party to the establishment he gave his support to me and my family. When I was at the border between life and death it was a man who came into my house to my home, who was with me and my family and shared everything he needed to share and gave me the will of me and my children and my family to move on. That's why I'm supporting him, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59923	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59924	Thank you, Chairman. I thank you once again for having patience and giving all the peoples the opportunity to express their feelings about such a disgusting act. I don't think the Serbian word is made up, there's no word to describe our relationship with those who are willing to say something like this, to print something like this, to make themselves known in this way, especially when it comes to children, when it comes to women's children. As a National MP and as president of the Committee on Culture, Information and as the father of four daughters, I feel a special discontent that there is one part of this culture in the people. Of course, you can't beat him politically, you can't intellectually reach him, you can't stand in his line, you can't challenge his successes, so then you hit where anyone who feels family, who feels love, your own home, where it hurts the most. This has nothing to do with culture, this has nothing to do with morality. This is the loss of every human form and it's the only way it can be characterized.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59925	The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59926	Thank you, Your Honor. On this occasion, I would first of all address all the citizens of Serbia, as a woman, as a mother but also as a psychiatrist. I don't think this is anything new that happened on social networks and where they're referred to the most monstrous, most vulgar words, above all, to the President of the Republic and his underage daughter. As a mother of a daughter who is like the president's daughter, I can strongly condemn that and if someone is willing to refer such a thing to a 15-year-old child, we can only imagine what kind of policy would lead to other citizens and citizens of Serbia, first of all to the children of Serbia, and we will all agree that children are our future. I just need to remind our citizens, first of all, when some of the next elections are called, to remind themselves of what these members of the Alliance for Serbia were doing in this assembly room. They began to pull microphones, call for the rape of the Prime Minister, twist the hand of the president of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and about us MPs and not to speak. We are called all kinds of names, the ugliest insults, spit and whatever, but we are ready to endure anything for the better future before all our children. I believe in the policy of the President of the Republic, and I can only order from this place that our support and support of decent Serbian citizens will always have and only keep fighting for Serbia and the people. And they, they go where they're going deep, and that's the political junkyard.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59927	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59928	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, news has just been released that our competent authorities have arrested a person who has threatened Serbia's underage daughter, Aleksandar Vukic. Unfortunately, it's a female person from the area of Šapac, according to the first information, who was hiding behind a fake Twitter warrant. Although relatively quickly brought to justice by a person who has referred to such disgusting threats, bitter taste remains in his mouth. The hate speech and daily violence of the Alliance for Serbia and their followers, unfortunately, have done their part. The border has been crossed and we're sinking like a society, and I'd say, we're paying tribute to all of this that's happening to us. The underage child has become the target of the most monstrous attacks, due to the lack of someone's program, vanity, the fact that the regulatory election cannot go back to power and that's really terrible. It's even scarier that, unfortunately, every single one of our children has become a target. Undoubtedly, colleagues said, the goal is to strike down the most sacred ones, which are the family and children of the president of the state, Aleksandra Vukic, to draw attention from resolving key and large economic and political issues and Serbia's progress, which is evident. I would ask a question, which is disappointing to me – why are you silent human rights fighters, for freedom, for democracy, for gender equality? It's something that's a big problem, and if it continues like this, I'm afraid it'll cause even bigger problems in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59929	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59930	Thank you, Chairman. I got beat up by my colleague Dubravka, but about half an hour ago I played it on Twitter, and I found out that a woman who's hiding in Shappac was arrested, so it's not Twitter, like you said, my colleague, it's Twitter. So there's one more thing we can say - that President Aleksandar Vukic was in this morning, when he was in the morning program of "First" television and when he said it was a political attack and a real threat to his family, not a sick person. Yesterday when we all read that tweet, we have to admit to ourselves that we thought it was a sick person. I personally wrote that this person should be found and put a shirt on her back, on her, because that's how it worked for me. However, it is now clearly seen, and also by other tweets on that profile, it is clearly seen that the work on the person who at least supports the Alliance for Serbia, if he is not already an active member, etc., and that, of course, now that identity is known and that will be determined, means, at the very least, for such outbursts of hatred, savagery and horrible expressions. I've been in politics for 30 years, I've been an MP for 20 years, I've supported most of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Aleksandr Vukic, to say SNS today, and I've been opposition to Slobodan Milosevic, Djindjic and Boris Tadic. Thank God, I've always been on the right side. The People's Messenger throws it away. That's what you think, but I say, still— thank God, I've always been on the right side. The People's Messenger throws it away. My colleagues, my colleagues. So, on that side, looking, nothing like this ever happened. I don't remember anyone like this, between political rivals, opponents, competitors on the political scene of Serbia, did and did. According to me, behind this, because they didn't fence themselves from tweets and didn't say anything, and now to say it's too late, they were supposed to do it yesterday, behind this is the Alliance for Serbia, and they're responsible, i.e. The alliance for themselves, they cannot be the Alliance for Serbia. All those who are responsible and who feel at least a little bit guilty in that coalition should leave that coalition and tear it apart, because it is usually evil. I'm not saying this because I consider them an alternative, they're not an alternative and they go to the polls, 7%, 8% is the maximum for them, the absolute maximum. They are nothing, although trying to present themselves as Serbia's future. They are certainly not Serbia's future. No such narrative is needed in Serbia, no such evil is needed in Serbia and Serbian citizens all who do not support Alexander Vukic's politics, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy should not seek an alternative in them and should be fenced from them, because these are the most common crimes of people, which is evidence and this case, which can never bring anything good to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59931	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59932	Thank you, Chairman. Like my fellow MPs, I feel very bad about everything that's been going on in our society lately and I strongly condemn the attack on the children of the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic, on his family and on him personally. We all, together, society as a whole, have to fight vigorously, daily and uncompromisingly against these monstrous, leprosy and primitive phenomena in society, we have to fight this human bottom and I want to give this opportunity to give full support to the family of President Aleksandr Vukic and him himself to endure and that we are all together with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59933	The word has a folk ambassador, Villette Lutovac Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59934	Thank you, Chairman. I simply cannot take the opportunity to join you, the Honored Chairman, as well as the other fellow Members of the People's Parliament and condemn this hate speech that is happening and which is directed to the family of the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and I can only tell you one thing, that yesterday and today the opposition has won. She won in violence, that's all they can do, win in hate, violence, threats that are directed, and now even to children. They forgot to deal with politics, they lost a set of ideas, they lost the policy development program, all they know is that they're threatening women, children and families. Today, or yesterday, there was a family of the President of the Republic on the wallpaper, tomorrow there will be a family of his closest associates, perhaps ours. I just want to tell you that this country is my country, our country, the country of the future, and I want it to stay that way, a country where our children can live healthy and not worry about their future. And as the mother of a little girl, I can only tell you that I absolutely understand the feelings of the parents who are being threatened like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59935	The word has been made by fellow MP Stanija Kompirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59936	Thank you, Chairman. Like all my fellow MPs, I want to condemn the hate speech and say that today, with Alexander Vukic and his family, the whole of Serbia, the country of decent people who condemn hate speech, stands the entire KIM, which is what we always prove to be with our president because we fight against such injustice. In moments when he is fighting a very difficult battle for KIM, when he fights for the survival and survival of our people in those areas, some of the Alliances who want only hate, want to kill and want to betray KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59937	The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59938	Thank you, Chairman. I'm joining my colleagues and I want to strongly condemn the attack on President Alexander Vukic's family. It is difficult to understand this hate speech that is on stage in Serbia and, above all, the attack on the president himself, but especially on his children. As a father of four, I can't understand the way people who conduct politics like this, first of all, towards children and underage children. So full support to President Alexander Vukic, above all as father and family man, and then as president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59939	The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59940	Of course, I'm joining the condemnation of one abnormal behavior on Twitter and other social networks. I condemn certainly the threats addressed to anyone, in this case to the children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I condemn and request the competent authorities to bring the responsible and the inspirers to justice. Inspirators don't need to be looked for far away. Look at how they're acting. One part of the opposition's leaders. Look at the behaviour of Sergei Trifunović, his public steps, look at Boško Obradović's behavior, and you will see immediately who inspires such anonymous, sick people to behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59941	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59942	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a strong conviction, I must say that we have contributed to this inaction ourselves. The authorities need to do their job. We're also the competent authority. If we have to change Zagorka the Dolovac, let's change her, don't just whine. This isn't yesterday. The family of the President of the Republic threatened him personally before. Djukanovic's been frighted. Turns out it's supposed to be a journalist, a certain Dasko from Novi Sad. Friends of the SNS, your supporters, another journalist has been put in the camps unpunished. He just said, "All this stuff needs to go to the rally, put it in the camps." That's what he said unpunishedly. He threatened Sergey Trifunović, threatened Zeljko Veselinovic. They were wearing chainsaws, wearing gallows. They threatened everyone in order. I don't even write to the D.A. anymore because he hasn't done anything. They threatened to strangle me with wolfworms. The threat has arrived 10,500 times. The second threat was that he would hang me with him on the bandits. That was 5,000 times. For these 15,000 threats, the prosecutor said they were sent from Brazil and the Virgin Islands and he never did anything. It's our own fault we didn't punish the previous situation. Let's get this over with. Someone has to pay for this escalation for moral responsibility. Let's see what we can do with Milojevic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court. It's some kind of justice summit. Let's see what we can do with the President of the Constitutional Court, what about Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorko Dolovac. When her reelection was here, I said I'd cut off my hand rather than vote for Zagorka Dolovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the Prosecutors, there is one saying - whoever does not punish evil, and he can do it, he himself participates in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59943	The word has a minister, Mr. Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59944	Thank you. The least we can do today is verbally condemn all of this, but I don't think that's enough. I speak as a father who has a son and a daughter and who can characterize all of this as one great disaster. I am deeply convinced that the vast majority of our citizens do not want Serbia in which violence against children and violence against women or global violence is something that is a political struggle. I'll remind you of one thing. Not a lot of people have talked about it. This isn't the first time. In 2012, in the pre-election campaign, remember what was written about our president, what was written about his child and what was written about what connected them and what they were doing. These abominations that were then difficult are now possible to pronounce, which means it's not the first time, which means that it's a picture and opportunity of their impotence, the inability to lead a different policy somehow and propose to our citizens something else, some solutions and some results that they didn't have, which they didn't even have when they were in power in 2012, but they offered violence against children, violence against women, and that happened not so long ago, when you remember, and with our Prime Minister, the exact same thing. What did we do? Nothing. One big nothing, but we may have hesitated and thought that some flow of time, those 500 million eves, those expensive trips, expensive suits would change, but there's a Wolf Karadzic saying to go to Vienna and get back from Vienna, but I'm not going to go down to that level, and the citizens of Serbia know. What Vuk Karadzic said, unfortunately, is a fact and it is just showing itself today on these people. I am deeply convinced that all the authorities and the MAP will do their job and will find all the things that have done this, but I appeal to two things. First thing, I urge the court and the judiciary to work, to be quick and efficient, to condemn whoever did it the right way, but I also appeal to the media, because we talk a lot about the media here. I appeal to the media not to hide the initials anymore, but to work and to say with a full name and last name, with a picture of who these citizens are who are just taking the right to say something like this, to hide behind some Twitters, behind some tiny images and behind the initials. We have a duty and obligation to our citizens, according to our children, to say the full name and name, to show the picture and to say who these people are, and if they have cheeks, they should bear that burden on themselves, to walk down the street and that people know what they look like, who they are, who they are until yesterday are the good neighbors who are doing these things right now. We do not want such things to anyone, nor to our political opponents, because we are the majority in Serbia. Serbia because of this majority is a good Serbia that will fight all of this and this will be just an ugly past behind us. Of course, in the best and most efficient way to stop this from ever happening again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59945	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue work at 2 p.m. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59947	I thank the chairman. I, truth be told, answered the word before the break, but apparently the system failed, so you didn't see that application. The SPS has already condemned the disgusting act, and the terrible insults that took place at the expense of the president of Serbia and his children. What is a personal defeat to me is that in the same day, when we are MPs, it seems to me, we have reached a consensus on something that cannot happen in Serbia, in the Assembly Hall, by my fellow Shormaz, I get an insult that is not at the same level or similar. I really want to believe that as living beings, we are able to rise above political differences and that we are able to say "excuse" to each other for a spoken word that is not suitable to the Assembly, nor to us as humans, without differences in our functions or just ordinary citizens. By doing this, we become a bad example, not to say a partial excuse for some ugly things that we then collectively survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59948	Dear counterpart Paunovic, I ask all fellow MPs to refrain from making any statements that would reduce the importance of everything that happened in the afternoon session of the National Assembly. Of all the MPs who participate in the work of the National Assembly, we have heard condemnations to calls for security threats, primarily children of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, but also of all children who have the right to no matter what their parents do, which they do business with, to grow up normally, without fear of being harmed by their parents. So, once again, I appeal to my fellow Members to refrain from any statement or thing that may diminish the importance of everything that happened in the afternoon session. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Colakovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59949	Dear Vice President, Honorable Minister Djordjevic, Honored Mrs Damjanovic, honourable MPs, I will explain very briefly my amendment to the proposal for this law, and before I say that the honourable MP and deputy president of the PUPS Group, Mr Kovacevic, is very precise and clear in expressing my position and pointed out certain things about the bill and voiced confidence that our parliamentary group will support the draft of this law. In that sense, I am expressing that attitude, too, but what I was going to say is that I tried to find places to solve a number of citizens, which is not great, as the amendment puts it, in the light of the amendments, people who worked their entire working life and paid some of their money, as in earlier times it was a case for solving their living needs. In that sense, I think it would be very good, as we have dealt with, the problem of the Swiss loan, as we solve this through this law successfully and well, to find a solution for those citizens as well. I'm aware that this very population that I'm talking about is not strictly related to the bill's proposal, but I can also say that they have made a great contribution, since they are an older generation of my age, that they have made a great contribution to the construction of this country. In that sense, I think we should give a certain initiative, and that is my reason for the amendment, to look to the government and the corresponding ministry how and how to satisfy and ensure that in the old days they find their peace and peace. In addition, I repeat, our parliamentary group will give support to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59950	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59951	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, respected MPs, this law regulates the conditions, criteria, the way and the procedure for the implementation of the apartment building project. Laws provide for a comprehensive development of the Republic of Serbia. The right to purchase an apartment under favourable conditions shall be subject to security forces, which meet the conditions laid down in this law, i.e. which do not have a settled housing requirement or an appropriate apartment. Serbia has always been on the side of freedom, truth and victory. There are few people who as a Serb know how terrible and expensive it is, but even fewer peoples who as a Serb people know how terrible and expensive it is to live in slavery. Everything has a price, only freedom doesn't have a price. The stronger your army, the more lasting and stable peace will be. As soon as we're ready for war, it'll be a further war, and peace will be closer. The situation in the military until 2012 was catastrophic. The state was in front of bankruptcy. The then government of the army was unable to provide basics for clothing, shoes, and food. We had about 30,000 soldiers, and the pay money was questionable. There was no building of apartments for members of the service. Our military faces moved from town to town with families without their apartments. Many have welcomed a pension with unresolved housing issues. Military equipment was sold out at the time. A million pieces of ammunition of all caliber, cannons, rifles, hoodies and thousands of portable PVO systems have been sold. The tanks were soaked in ironworks, and in the state fund, where these funds were to be pooled, there was no such reform of the army of money. At that time, funds were being used back in the army, until new funds were being obtained. The army is a tradition that is in the Serbian people, in the Serbian spirit. It was an honor to be a soldier and defend your country. Those who tried to destroy and break that military tradition that had been nurtured and maintained for centuries were the government until 2012. It was a coup against the state and the people. Serbia today is a different country, thanks to the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, with President Aleksandar Vukic, today we have excellent results, especially when it comes to macroeconomic stability and public finances, with a developed economy that is the core of every society. We've managed to get a surplus in our budget for the last few years. From the above, we have more opportunities today. Today our army is well equipped again. Better weapons were purchased. Today we have 14 Migg 29, new helicopters, complex artillery and rockets, systems. It's the latest and most modern technology we can be proud of. A dedicated military industry, whose exports from year to year, has been recovered, so trust in our soldier and our army has been restored. Thanks to the surplus, we also have an improvement in the state of the army in society. These solutions singled out the funds for building apartments. In the first phase, the states will build 8,022 apartments in Serbia, where the first 2,400 will be in Nis. By building these apartments, all those who intend to provide a roof over their heads will be welcome. It is essential to enable the resolution of the housing issue for members of the service under more favourable conditions. It is the security forces that protect the country, give security to the people. SNS policy is a policy of building and long-term development of the country and society. These are the values we stand for. In the end, I would like to say that I strongly condemn the insults of President Alexander Vukic's family. The threat to the president's children, like any other children, is unacceptable. Of those who do not have their own policy, which has been run by a homeless campaign months ago, and who have left Serbia behind in a difficult state, such outbursts and hatreds and aggressions have so far not been recorded, and are talking about their incompetence and the policies that the citizens have rejected. Serbian citizens understand things well. Serbian citizens want a policy of investment, strengthening the economy and strong Serbia, not a policy of threats and returning to the past. That's why I call on the state authorities to respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59952	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? My colleagues, Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59953	Since we are discussing today the draft law on the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, it was here to sit, with the respect of Mr. Djordjevic, Zorana Mihajlovic. Now he's going to write again how radicals attack her when she's not here, so the poor one can't defend herself. The only excuse that Zorana Mihajlovic is not here today that we would accept, would be if she went camping again to Gredel. Since, after those scandals with the supporting wall, with the three-time collapse of the supporting wall, there was another scandal in the Throat. She was here when news came that the Manoula tunnel showed up in the depths of four centimeters on the highway, then she said it was no big deal, that the highway was within a guaranteed deadline and that it was only four centimeters. So, very professionally, seriously, Ministerial and state-owned. Now, we want to know, first of all, no one answered us, neither did she, first of all, what about that support wall and all those expenses we had because that wall worked three times? Now, what's gonna happen and who's gonna have the expenses, not just to patch up those holes? You know, it happened at the time, in the course of the tourist season, at a time when many people wanted to pass through that Corridor, to get where they were going, and in that period it was, or it had to be, one tape, because it's been done in a way that she boasted that the best thing in the world was done here. Then we heard a comment from one of the staff in the Corridors that it happened, imagine, because it was a dense traffic accident on Corridor and that's why he cracked the asphalt. Well, she didn't make a path through the park, I guess she was making a highway that was expected and much more and much more denser traffic than she is now. So, this woman really, I mean Zorana Mihajlovic, she's falling out of an affair in an affair and it's just amazing that she can still be an equal member of the government with you, let's say, Mr. Djordjevic. When it comes to this amendment, we have proposed that the country indeed make sure that under favourable conditions and the same conditions as those provided for security services, now for fighters and their families, disabled, wartime and peace-doping, that this is provided for other categories, above all for young doctors, because in Serbia it is really a problem for doctors to stay in Serbia. You saw the other day the news that in Germany they don't even ask our doctors and sisters to work there anymore. And given the conditions in which they live here and if they can't handle the housing issue under favourable conditions, I'm afraid that's going to be more and more. So we think that this amendment, and all of our amendments, in this sense that they are really both very correct and useful for the state and that the state should assume responsibility to take over and this part to really cover as many people as possible with this bill. In that sense, so is our amendment. Well, if Zoran comes back from the camp, as soon as he takes off that pink helmet, give it to her, Mr. Djordjevic. And now that she has called on Zagorka Dolovac to examine her machinations, we are now calling on Zagorka Dolovac to really examine the machinations of Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59954	The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59955	As far as your first question is concerned, I can say as Minister of Government that certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned with infrastructure projects leading to the fact that they are the best quality, given that they are the money our citizens give. Anyway, when it's done, there's a mistake. I am deeply convinced that the ministry will see whose fault it is. It must be a mistake for the contractor himself, who has made such a lack and who, within a guaranteed time limit, has an obligation to correct it, but I don't think that's enough. I think we should also examine who was in control and who let that go. I am deeply convinced that it will be corrected in the future and that the best way to punish whoever was responsible for all this will be to correct such things in the future. As far as your second question is concerned, I can also say that while I was Minister of Defense, the very sensitive question was the accommodation of our people who are workers in security services, both because of their families, both because of the nature of the job, and because of the fact that their job is the way it is, that they are quite often, when it comes to, say, the Ministry of Defence, in the course of their careers change their place of residence and that they can't even assume at the beginning of their careers where they're going to end up and where they're about to be their, to say, finally, the choice of the place where their family is going to live. Under such circumstances, the state should meet them. There has been a way before, since the government has in some earlier period determined that barracks that are not in office are given to build apartments. However, as it has shown that we no longer have attractive locations that are interesting for construction, the government has come up with the idea that this is exactly how security services are allowed to build adequate apartments that will be under more favourable conditions, because we believe that people who do this job, primarily, have to be safe for their family, that we have them in sufficient numbers, that they are schooled and that they have perspective. Of course, I agree with you and I think that our president himself has said on several occasions that, when it comes to this right, surely in the future, in line with the possibilities and I mean the example of good practice, as well as how our citizens can get to the square, or apartment for their family, we will certainly extend to other actions. The first thing we did was, at the initiative of our Prime Minister, after meeting with the disabled, with veteran fighters, the idea of spreading this to them in the first amendment of the law. I think it's a good thing, because a lot of them were expecting everything they gave, like our country, and they don't have a roof over their heads to sort of go out. They weren't so demanding and this was enough for them. In any case, what's the message is that safe nurses, for sure and some other categories, will be covered in the next changes and additions to the law, which I think is a good message for all those who advocate that our country, both economically and in terms of migration, is going to change in one positive direction and will certainly contribute to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59956	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59957	It was just missing, Mr. Djordjevic, we end up accepting the amendment, because those promises have been going on for years and we want it to be incorporated into this law, so as soon as the government is ready to realize that its idea that it has been resolved immediately and in law. It is not true that there are no attractive locations, attractive locations are sold to investors for serious money, and always where they build four or five buildings, they can separate at least one building from these categories of security services that you are now planning these apartments to buy under favourable conditions. Now it's a good thing you've predicted in these shifts of fighters and families of fallen fighters, wartime and peacetime people, but believe me, ministers, they had to be in first place, and not only when they intervened, when they asked through various organizations to be in this category, in this law. They deserved it, you now, not personally today, but we heard it from colleagues from the government when we talked about this bill, then everyone was talking about how those fighters gave you the most for Serbia. It's all true, but just because some people gave their lives, some parts of their bodies, in any case, they all defended the Serbs, they had to be first, not remember them only in the amendments to the law. As for the corridor, you say mistakes happen. Mistakes must come down to a minimum. You know, a doctor's mistake can kill a man, a wrong judge can get a life sentence now, and a supervisory authority's mistake is what happened on the corridor. So it is the supervisory authority who is responsible, and the supervisory authority is responsible for the ministry. We are not talking about the performer, we are talking about a supervisory authority directly responsible for by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59958	The word has Minister Zoran Djordjevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59959	In order not to spread the debate on a topic that is not at the session today, everyone is responsible when a failure occurs – an investor, a contractor and one who controls. I'm not going to get into the bottom of who's guilty, but I'm sure whoever's guilty will answer, that it'll be presented to the public, and it'll be the best message that something like that doesn't happen in the future. As for the issues and topics we're working on today, there are certainly good locations. I said the Army has been offering its location for years, and now, unfortunately, there are no ones looking for such locations to build. And you know, in some earlier period, the former government had a few locations that the Army had given, and these apartments were never built or built by the machinery of the company that went bankrupt and the military had nothing to gain as apartments. The best example for you is the position around the Military Academy, where a certain company built apartments, the Army judges today, and the apartments are gone, because the company sold everything and went bankrupt. The second location is Nis. The whole barracks that was given in Nis, the city of Nis has given for the construction of apartments and these apartments have not been built to this day. The location exists, the apartments are gone. Such things were a thing of the past and you say – we remembered now and promised. Just don't mind that in 2014 the situation in Serbia was catastrophic, that the economic situation was catastrophic, that we were ahead of bankruptcy and that we were thinking about these things, but we weren't able to do them. This is the third year in a row where the state and government of the Republic of Serbia achieve success. The moment it was good for the state, the state turned to its citizens and began to give them the opportunity to benefit from all of us. One of these benefits is these very apartments. The moment we rose even more on that scale, we expanded that group of citizens who have the right to these apartments. I am deeply convinced that at another session of the Assembly, perhaps next year, when there is an even better situation, then we will talk and don't just say – we should adopt that. It's just, right now, we can't stand it right now. This category we've chosen now, which we want to help, it's important to our safety. Because of all this, we have to have the army, the police, the security force, because of everything that's happening to us in the environment and because of everything that Serbia is suffering as a threat, and it's important that these people are safe, that they know when they do their duty to have a roof over their heads, that no one will throw them out on the street. I think that's the most important thing. At this point I think we've done the right thing, and I am deeply convinced that we're going to discuss how to expand to other categories very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59960	The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59961	It's a two-part replica again. First of all, about what you are trying to defend Zorana Mihajlovic. You say you're convinced that responsibility will be determined, that you'll know who's responsible for this shooting of the highway on the corridor near Gredica. We have been asking for more than a year to determine who is responsible for the destruction of the supporting wall and we have never received an answer. You may believe that responsibility should be determined and that you are the minister, here, we are ready to believe that you would make an effort to establish it, but Zorana Mihajlovic has no intention, because she works with those people who do suspicious jobs. We've been telling you about which firm it is and how many references there are. You will hear all the details during today's debate. As for the barracks and these locations, you're talking about some before you, but we're asking a question -- what happened to those people who were so warring the barracks, did one of them get prosecuted, did he answer criminally, if there were conditions for that? How did this happen to be built at the site of a large barracks on Novograd Street in Zemun, a settlement of several buildings, where they were evicted, there were temporary families of fighters and fallen fighters, military disabled? They were all displaced along the borders of Belgrade, they received fewer apartments than those they were in, and in Novograda Street, the settlement broke down. Someone gave it, sold it, donated it, whatever they did to that barracks and those building plots. Who? Was it legal? If it isn't, is there any procedure related to it?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59962	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59963	When it comes to the support wall, criminal charges have been filed immediately and it has been proposed to the Engineer's Chamber for Licensing. We expect that, when the trial is over and the Engineering Chamber reacts, it certainly is, now that the court is independent, there is a request to the court that such matters be taken as a priority, because if we had settled it in time, if we had someone who was guilty of such a thing or convicted, if there were evidence, it would certainly be a good message to everyone who works that we don't want to give up and go unpunished. As for Novogradska, I must say, I was at the Ministry of Defense when it was done. Of course, everything was done in accordance with the law. The contractor is Serbia's Construction Directorate. It's allotted, now I can't tell you exactly, but there is a specific project by which how many apartments should be built and how many of these apartments the Serbian Army gets. I think it's about 21. What's important is that certainly that percentage always includes those who are not now members of the army, who are pensioners, who are displaced military persons from the former Yugoslav republics at a certain percentage. They certainly did not have adequate conditions even when they lived, because I know in what conditions they lived in these barracks and we saw that when they were displaced to get adequate, at least as conditionally, again temporary accommodation, until the end of their housing problem, and one of the ways you can solve their housing problem is exactly what we are discussing today. That's how we can give them the opportunity to buy these apartments. Now you're going to ask yourself and ask me -- how and in what way they're going to pay for such a thing, but to know that the Army gives, the Ministry of Defense gives these individuals a certain fee for living without a roof over their heads and which, I think, will partly give them or perhaps fully cover the war that will be for such an apartment. So it's all been thought about, and I think with this kind of apartment building, we're going to start to change that, because when we're building like you say as the Serbian Building Directorate, it was in the last series of attractive locations, that's where part of it gets rid of it again. But believe me, I was the Secretary of Defense and I got from Sunday to Sunday, from month to month, that list of those who were supposed to be assigned apartments. I often asked them, I had a feeling we shared apartments, and we even had the opportunity to lend them under some specific conditions that we negotiated with those banks that wanted it, I had the feeling that we were in place all the time. We shared so many apartments, and the new ones showed up all the time, because in the army you have generations that are standing, generations that at some point have the possibility that when they're hired right to the apartment, it seemed to me as a minister that we're spinning around in circles. So that's not what I think this kind of measure of government and what we've done with these apartments is going to be, at least, how much of a relief, or maybe, in most cases, and solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59964	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59965	Still, we think more apartments were to be assigned to military personnel in that village, but good. It's a done deal and there's nothing more that can change, except that these people, who are still in temporary, you said yourself, are being set up to provide them with some really decent living space. As for the supporting wall and some criminal charges, we don't know if there's a criminal report, but what we all remember when it was current, that's when Zorana Mihajlovic wanted to blame all the blame on CIP engineers, so when, then, several engineers went public, so when they professionally explained, Zorana retired, she realized that she was dealing with those she couldn't deal with. She's not a woman expert in that sort of thing. But what she's not professional, she obviously doesn't want any expert associates around her either. The minister doesn't have to be an expert in particular for this job or anyone. The minister is a political figure, a political figure and he runs a policy represented by the government, represented by the current regime and there is nothing controversial about it. If someone keeps busing that he's the most professional in the world, like Zorana Mihajlovic does and then attacks the CIP engineers... We don't know who that supervisory authority is. That supervisory authority is very interested in us. The supervisory authority is someone she chooses, she and her associates. We're having an affair with "Behtel" she says – ask... He's calling Zagorka Dolovac to be questioned, so we're calling. What's the matter, you think we forgot when she stole the money from the credit card, and then they went out and said she came back. Well, what does it mean, someone robs a bank, steals a million euros, and when they get him back and say he's not a thief, he comes back? It sure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59966	Right on line, Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59967	When it comes to the Novograd and the Building Directorate of Serbia, when we negotiated with them, given that it was a state firm, of course there was no personal interest and the intensity was to get a job so that there would be no doubt that there was any agreement or any benefit of either side, but it had to be mutually beneficial, we watched what was the estimate of how cost-effective it would be for the Serbian Building Directorate, which should do the project, to be worth it, not in the minus, and on the other hand, not to be overpriced, and the Army to get what it belongs to it. I think that relationship was 21% of the total squares built and we were certainly looking for it to be as much as in the urban plan and it's supposed to be walled on one surface with all the following things that should be built there, including shops, shopping malls and everything else where, I have to tell you, no matter what the wall is built and if the wall's shopping mall the military counts and such a square at the price, so it's also getting squares for the shopping mall. The price of squares was in the living room, but we took care of everything, and we didn't have that anxiety when we made the decision to be given for the reason it was a state firm. It'd probably be any kind of story if it was any kind of private, but for us as a state, it was best. We found a legal opportunity to give it to the Serbian Building Directorate. Serbia's construction directorate built these buildings or walls. What's important, it's fundamentally different there -- the price of squares is far higher, more attractive, and I think it's getting an apartment, when it comes to members of the Army in that location, in a way and a confirmation and a reward for what they do for our country, which is that they serve our country and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59968	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59969	When it comes to this obviously most important topic, obviously the most important problem in Serbia, three cracks on the part of Caric's Valley-Tunnel Manajle's highway, while the chairman, I don't think of the amendment bearer, so there won't be any replicas from this amendment, there's no need for replicas, some people, some media, N1 for example, and some media are looking forward to something like this happening, they just can't wait for something unpleasant to happen in Serbia to have something to write about, to have something to talk about, to have something to look forward to, because they look forward to when something bad happens. If, God forbid, there's a hole on the highway, it's a theme for them, and when something is done in Serbia, when something is built in Serbia, when we have information that 450km of highways have been built, it's not a theme for them, it's not news. There's no need to talk about it, no need to write about it. I would like for the sake of the citizens, the chairman, to say when it comes to the whole project that's in a guaranteed time frame. You know, a man buys a television set within a guaranteed deadline. The TV's broken for some reason. He calls for the cost of the contractor or manufacturer or authorised repairer, removes the malfunction and everything is fine – the cost of the manufacturer or whoever gave the guarantee. The whole project is on a guaranteed deadline. The costs of the rescue are on the performer. The responsibility has been determined immediately. It immediately approached the rescue. During today’s day, if not already done, a complete recovery of the three vertebraes was carried out. And what's most important for the citizens, no moment has been threatened by passenger safety, no moment has traffic been halted in that part. So this is what I wanted to say for the sake of the citizens just so they don't write and talk about a subject that doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59970	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59971	Yeah, this says the most important question, of course, and you're the one that determines who's entitled to the replica, and it's good that I got the replica. Almost none of this is true. No traffic was suspended - traffic was suspended on one tape. So, it automatically occurred that some people were avoiding, whoever could have gone around to avoid getting into the crowd didn't go through that Corridor. So that's where the lost profit came in automatically. It's, you know, a colleague says buy a refrigerator, a TV set, what he said, in a guaranteed time, and you know when you buy a freezer and fill it with meat and vegetables and it breaks down in a guaranteed time, you have to throw everything that was in that freezer and then you have lost profit. You have expenses that aren't just that freezer. That's right, and when it comes to Corridor, no matter what's within the guaranteed deadline, you can't, says a colleague there are some out there, and that's not us, anyway, that's certainly not, who are looking forward to something bad happening in the country. Well, if you already know you have those, then make sure you do something like that never happens. You know, the question is, when you see those holes on the corridor, those four centimeters, my God, in those pictures, you see that there's no asphalt beyond that four-centimeter, something down there is not the color of asphalt underneath those holes. People were passing, painting, watching live, so it must be seriously examined why it happened, whether it was done by standards at all, whether the thickness of the asphalt is in line with the standards, whether it's consistent with how much it's been paid and because we doubt all of that, Zorana Mihajlovic is not here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59972	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59973	It was said earlier that I wasn't telling the truth, and I would ask the chairman to read something to you, and you would pass it on to the previous speaker, so it wouldn't be personal and that I was causing some nonexistent replicas. So, it's RTS, news 11 o'clock and 3 o'clock this morning, and the source is Fonet, you'll agree that the Fonet Agency is not someone who favors SNS, "Sanated splinters on the highway through the Throat". It's 11:00 this morning. Serbia's corridors announced that within 72 hours, a complete recovery of the cracks on the Caricin Valley's share -- the Manajla tunnel -- was completed. In the company Corridors of Serbia, the section of the highway through the Grdelička clisura is completely safe and secure for traffic. The statement states that the artist "Integral Engineering" has completed a recovery of its cost, as the highway is in a guaranteed period. Serbia's corridors, along with the supervisory authorities, will monitor the quality of the reasons for the complete share and, in the event of a lack of guarantees, will issue urgent instructions to the contractor for their removal, the statement added. So I really don't know who's not telling the truth here.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59974	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59975	But it's a defense, good for you. Well, of course, it's about time we got rid of it. What's the news? No, they should've let it spread. That really isn't the answer to our question. The question is, how was that supposed to happen? Why did that happen? If it's a guaranteed deadline, if it wasn't, it wasn't long ago, we remember the open bus, we remember the cameras, we remember the walk, we remember the statements that were made by the highest standards, etc. Well, I'm not exactly sure where it's done by the highest standards to make those cracks in less than a month, according to a fellow hole, cracks, whatever. So, we want to get precise information about this from how it happened, what are the costs not only of the recovery, how many cars, trucks, buses bypassed Serbia because they didn't want to drive through the Corridor, the highway where one tape didn't work? It is not true that there were no consequences in the material sense, and in the end, if you do something like that for a view and for a reputation then something like this really shouldn't have happened. I repeat, after the supporting wall and now these cracks at that tunnel of Manajla really look like someone was playing by building the Corridor, not being taken seriously, Zorana Mihajlovic has objections to many who have been thinking about the Corridors, who have talked about the corridors, ready to sue anyone, and to see if anyone will remember to initiate the procedure and against her more.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59976	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59977	Okay, like a few days ago when we were having a debate, so you proved during the discussion that the claims that we're making are not really false but the opposite, and that's true, so now we have a similar situation. We had a claim that Alexander Vukic said something during a tour of a country settlement, and then we later proved that it was not so and that it was true only that Alexander Vukic was present at the moment. This reminds me of a joke from the Soviet era about this: is it true that in Moscow, in Red Square, cars are distributed to citizens for free? The answer to that was: so the news is basically true, it's just not Moscow, it's Tbilisi and it's not cars, it's bicycles and it's not to share, it's to steal, but the news is basically correct. Now, that reminds me of the situation of the previous pay phone. When it comes to recovery, I just read an official report by the media RTS, which was received by the Fonet Agency, that the cracks existed, the whole of Serbia knows that the cracks have come up. In the shortest possible time, removed, remedied, on the load of the performer and no one is in any way damaged, because all the time he was in office and in no way was the safety of the passengers brought in. It's the only truth here, as much as anyone's been trying to run that wing a hundred times the untrue becomes true. In this case, it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59978	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59979	So, it's undeniable, the cracks happened on the Corridor, on the highway to Gredella. Here, now we hear that they've been rehabilitated, thank God, it took you five days to do that. I don't know who proved it or who proved who this judge is in this room, who proves someone's telling the truth or not telling the truth. Judges to the MPs, dear colleagues, do not sit in this room, but watch what is done in this room and what is said in this room. Speaking of proof, then let's see if these experts who proved what Vukic was saying in the Zemun gate settlement, and I say what I said, why didn't those experts dare comment on Vucic's statement from 15 October 2018, that for the military and police apartments would be built at 300 to 350 euros per meter square? Zorana said the other day it would be 400 to 500 euros. Why not deny that on June 4, 2018, Vukic announced the construction of cheap apartments for nurses, doctors and young couples? We have just proposed these amendments, that later you do not waste time, when you realize these Vucic promises, that you do not waste time on law-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59980	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59981	Thank you, Chairman. Two days ago, when we held a debate in principle, we said to a similar finding – not 500 euros, but 500 euros, and that it was a big difference and proved, and it is known that there will be apartments of 400 and 430 euros and 450 euros. The difference is from town to town. It is not the same price in Belgrade, and it cannot be the same price in Belgrade as in Sremska Mitrovica, as in Vranj, as in the Kingdom and in all other cities where these apartments are built. So somewhere there will be 400, about 430, about 450, up to 500 euros top and nowhere will be more than 500 euros, and that's the only truth. One more thing, Chairman, I won't answer again. If the biggest problem of the state of Serbia is three cracks, three cracks on the highway, then it says that we are on a very good path if the biggest problem of our society, our countries three cracks that are immediately, are immediately recovered. If that's the biggest problem in the country, I'm a lucky man. Serbia is certainly on a good path, we move forward, if we have no bigger problems than the three cracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59982	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59983	Says a colleague, he keeps using the term “proved. ” He says - we have proven that the price will be up to 500 euros. How did you prove it? How many apartments did you build and sell under these conditions? Then it would be proven. I said up to 500 euros. So Zorana Mihajlovic said – 400, 430, 450 to 500 euros, depending on the place, but it is without VAT, and Aleksandar Vukic said 300 to 350 euros, VAT did not mention. It means that this price, even with VAT, should be significantly lower than that of Zorana Mihajlovic. There, that's the problem. Not the problem of three cracks, the problem is ossar work, the problem is that the bank budget, the problem is that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and the unprofessional and unworthy functions he performs. You defend her as much as you want, but you can't defend her defenselessly. The problem was also the support wall, the problem was "Bechtel", the problem was also the government of Serbia's credit card, the problem was also the multi-thousand-euro purse Vucic called it for, the problem was also the number of thousands of euros that I don't know how someone who works in the state business and teaches in college, as she does. A lot of problems are about Zorana Mihajlovic and the jobs she does, and you keep turning the story into three cracks. Aren't you ashamed that by the end of July, in the middle of the tourist season, it's that the highway that was released with all that pump a month ago, that any cracks happen and that one tape has to be closed for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59984	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59985	Chairman, you know, I've been talking to you all along, and I don't know where you need to give you the constant opportunity to replicate the previous speaker. You know, it's the easiest thing to criticize. The easiest thing to do is sit in the shade and criticize something that's going on, something that's happening, something that's being built, etc. Personally, I think it's much harder to build something, much harder to do than criticise it if there happens to be a small or larger mistake in that sense. I'm still saying this is a minor mistake. Why am I saying this? Because decades before coming to the power of the SNS, the government didn't build anything, absolutely nothing, so not a mile away. The SNS then assumes responsibility for the exercise of power, builds hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of highways through Serbia, rebuilds hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of railways and other things belonging to road and railway infrastructure. Then someone, who looks on the side, out of the shade and says, "Well, this isn't good, this is where the cracks came out, and nobody says how much effort and skill it took to build everything that hasn't been built in decades." There's a question here about some shame. Well, I'd be ashamed, of course, if this hadn't been built. Of course I'd be ashamed if, God forbid, I belonged to former regime parties who hadn't built anything in decades. Then I'd be ashamed, now I'm not ashamed. I am now proud to be a member of the party leading the Serbian government that has allowed us to have hundreds and hundreds of kilometers of highways. Is there a mistake? There's been a mistake, of course. One more thing, when it comes to taxes, let's get this straight. Persons first acquired the opportunity to buy real estate have been exempt from tax payments. So, please, so much for the subject that there will be some tax that will affect the price, which will collect all that, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59986	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59987	So the right to the replica comes from the Rules of Procedure. Let me just tell my colleague from where I'm entitled to a replica. The mention of someone sitting in the shade and in the shade commenting on something, if he means the National Assembly, we're in the same shade, if this is the shade. This is really not appropriate in this way to address fellow Members. As for the commentary on what the previous government did. My people, there's really enough of that previous government. You're already three times the previous government. You've been in power for seven years, and nobody's defending anyone who's been before, before you, and we're not talking about what someone should have done or what they didn't do or what they did, and neither of us has ever said that it's not good that highways are being built, that they're doing corridors. Of course it's a good thing it's going to be built, if God does, these apartments and it's going to be good when it happens. But you can't blur the truth by saying, "Who cares if highways are built?" It doesn't bother anyone, but it bothers us to see white holes on the highway, which has just been built, and to see under these four inches of something white, under that crack, it's visible white, it's no longer asphalt. That's what's bothering us. We're wondering, who's here in some corrupt business, who's come up with some money, how much is real money spent, and how much is this asphalt that's only four centimeters thick that I repeat, only puts it on the trails in parks? As far as VAT returns are concerned. Please, Mr. Arsic, you understand better than a colleague who just said that, is that when he buys someone's first apartment, he has to have all the money and pay the apartment, and then the management of his income, through the process, determines how much he gets back and just returns it. So, he must, the one who buys the apartment, at the moment of purchase and these privileged prices, have all the money it costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59988	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59989	Thank you, Chairman. I'm extremely glad that we heard the confession of what I just said, which is that whoever buys the apartment, that's how, for the first time, makes a refund of funds and practically doesn't fall under his expense, and it doesn't affect the price of the apartment that he's going to buy. So, I'm extremely glad we heard the confession in that sense. I would like to hear just one more confession and I hope to hear it, and it concerns what the Serbian government has done in particular when it comes to housing for those other categories that do not belong to the category of security forces. So, I'll try to be as short as possible. A few days ago, on July 13, 2019, 20 dwellings for refugee families from Bih and Croatia were presented in Vrsac today, so the government decided 20 apartments in Vrsac, on July 13th of this year. The apartment keys got 20 refugee families in Ub, July 6th, so just before 13 July, 20 other refugee families got an apartment in Ub. We are going a little earlier, 20 June 2019, so about a month ago, a roof over the head in the Kamendin country settlement, the keys were given to refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, 270 apartments in the Zemun settlement of Kamendin were served to refugee families from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. We move a little further, May 4th this year, the Ministry of Defence assigned 20 apartments to active and retired soldiers. Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin and Chief of Staff delivered the keys to 20 apartments in Belgrade today to active and retired members of the defence ministry. We're going a few more days early, April 21st, 30 apartments in Loznica. We are going a little earlier, on March 26th, so all these years, 80 apartments were allocated by Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to Kragujevac for young scientists and researchers. We could do that in a row, and I think by tonight, I could be able to list and read, every week, every month for some apartment, the government assigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59990	Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59991	Of course, no one in their right mind will say that it is good to settle the housing issues of the refugees and displaced persons who are left behind, who have mostly been expelled by the Ustasha and lost their homes. It's not disputed to anyone, but it's only disputed to happen in 2019, on the one hand. On the other hand, not many of Serbia's countries have invested in building these apartments, these are apartments funded from all kinds of funds around the world, and it's good that you've provided that, too, we have nothing against it. But it is also controversial that this is not how family housing issues are resolved, in terms of inheritance, because these apartments are not given as a permanent solution, nor with the possibility of buying, but are given with the sole possibility of paying the rent. We've mentioned here many times, the entire settlement in Chačka of this kind of apartment, through some foundation, Italian, I think, and today these people live here, but they can't formally resolve their status. The sincere assistance of the people who had escaped was provided in the settlements of Grmovac, Busije, Blue Horizon, Batajnica, Ugrinovci, in all parts of Zemun, when the SRS was in power, when Dr Vojislav Seselj led the municipality and the action where we sold 5,000 plots to these people, when I said we sold, the price per salary was about 1,000 marks, and made there settlements that could serve as an example of modern modern settlements throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59992	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59993	I'm just surprised I got the word. I'll speak for the amendment. This is a law that is long and eager to expect, and I believe that this practice will continue and I support the proposal of my colleague Radete, who has proposed that other categories of citizens be involved in this kind of settlement of the housing issue. Why do I say that? Because I think there are a lot of categories that are unable to buy apartments at attractive locations and expensive apartments, and these are still apartments that will work on locations that are cheaper and whose quality of construction will not be as exclusive as "Belgrade on Water". Now, my suggestion for thinking, and I think the minister listens to me, as usual, here, air-conditioned, listens, my suggestion is that these apartments are built in border areas, or border areas, which are unfortunately empty today, and there are fewer and fewer inhabitants in these areas. One of those places is Black Grass. Black grass is ready to give the state a suitable location, to do a lot of things in its power, and on the other hand, the Blackprints are known as valuable, extremely good builders and, after all, their cost of performing these works is much cheaper than the prices of the performers we now have to hire. I often pass and watch construction sites all over Serbia with attention. It's rare to see a construction site where you don't have a sticker, an ad, a request or whatever you want to call it where it says it - workers are sought, then builders, carpenters, these and them. We're in a situation right now that we're going to be out of this expert task force real quick. One of the examples that could help a colleague Radetta solve her dilemma about how to get to the point of not making mistakes like these cracks on the highway is that people from the black grassland and the environment, who are genetically predetermined to be good builders, good builders, to make there a master academy that would train and prepare future generations for the job. The construction-technical school in Montenegro was the strongest technical school in Yugoslavia in time. That's where all the wolves were enrolled, and the wolves who finished those schools regularly with an average of 5.00. It's one of the options. Let's just say, Black grass is a lot of 100 apartments. Building these apartments would allow a certain number of people, certain categories, to return and live there. Here, we applied to the Ministry of the Interior two years ago, and I hope my colleague Milicko, who is the Secretary of State, will soon be allowed to open a fire department in Black grass. Black grass as a local self-government is ready to provide both garages and provide all other escorts, to bear one part of the costs for employees who would work there. But what's so good about it? When it happens, especially in these times when there are great heat, to get to the fire, while we wait for the fire truck and the fire unit from Leskovec to react, burn down the whole of Black grass and all the villages around. That's why I hope we'll be wise and continue with this practice. I'm not going to say that this proposal of mine is the most important and that first it is necessary to provide apartments for people living in those border and border areas. It's hard to guess and find a measure of contentment. A colleague of Radeta says – they were supposed to be disabled first, former soldiers, warriors, etc. It is difficult to guess the measure, and let each of these categories be satisfied, they will both be well with Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59994	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59995	Thank you, Chairman. There's one thing we need to clear up. Of course, we highly appreciate what the municipality government in Zemun did in its term from 1996 to 2000 for these people, so for refugees from the former Republika Srpska region, and also refugees from Bosnia, no one is slowing down, I mean that and I say that, but it simply can't be compared to this situation today. So it was a land concession to use physical persons, where then a man would have to come out of the house, build the whole after-infrastructure, and that's a big deal. So no one here wants to undermine this procedure and that effort. If the economic situation had been better then, perhaps you would have done more in that regard. So I'm really saying, no one here wants to belittle it. But it can't be compared to this. You're giving up ready apartments. The system "key in hand", owned immediately, and that is because today, in 2019, the state of Serbia can do so. We've healed the state of public finances, we've fixed the economic and economic picture, we've put our economy on healthy feet today, and we can do things like this. It took a painful period to do all this, and thanks primarily to Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government behind us, and today we are in a position to assign apartments to different categories. So also refugees, but also other categories, and social housing and, among other things, these apartments that are the subject of this law, which are apartments for security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59996	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59997	Just so there's no confusion, these apartments in the security services, the ones we're talking about today and the ones that are the subject of these amendments to the law, they're not putting the key in their hands, they're selling the key in their hands. So, they're sold under favourable conditions, and it's not the same, you know? The question remains, so there is no confusion, we have nothing against this, as you can see, we even want to expand the circle of faces that can get to the apartments under these more favourable conditions. The question is how many people who haven't solved the housing issue will get a loan from the bank, we still don't know which banks they are, you mentioned the Post Office, but it's still not official that it's going to be the Post Office. Otherwise, we think it should be right now, because it's the only state bank in Serbia today. The question is, how much of these faces and those families are going to have enough money to participate, no matter how little it is. You know, someone who's a war-to-war invalid, someone who's a member of the military, the police, had to pay the rent for years, because he was a tenant, he wasn't exactly in a position to save some money, no matter how much it was, so the question of whether he would have the money and how much money he would have to pay for those loans and how much money he would be able to pay, given the amount of pay or pension, to pay those loans. This is not a bad step, this is a good step, but don't make any of this, people will ask you, after they ask, they'll say, and why I can't, because you said you get the key in your hand. We just need to be realistic, this is a good start, we're looking to expand, but to tell people what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59998	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) colleague Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u59999	In this law, we wanted you to include single parents with this amendment. So that even single parents can buy apartments under these privileged conditions, because they are truly heroes of today. You don't even know the exact number, maybe you, Mr. Minister, know, and if social work centres don't keep records of that status, but that figure is really big, about 300,000 single parents, they're mostly mothers, but there are also fathers living in Serbia. Many of them are jobless, two-thirds of them work for a minimumer, mostly, and that's a really big problem for this society. The law on financial support for the family with children has recognised in changes and additions the possibility that they may exercise the right to a social supplement, but only if they meet all those other conditions, as do families where both parents live. And that's not even a good solution, many of them, because of this mammoth bureaucracy, have really given up on their rights, many hardly pay for a room, a room, barely live, you know that not by the terms of a single mother, who asks for anything to do, and when they find that job, they're working on black, because the employer won't report them. Well, even a quarter of the employers in Serbia don't recognize in the legal flows of this category. That's why we thought, Mr. Minister, because there are funds and there's got to be this possibility, if you want to run some serious population policy, and so do the ministries. If you want to be responsible for every child in Serbia, then accept this amendment, because it will create the possibility that every single parent can get a hint of hope, that with these conditions they will get a chance to enter the project and buy an apartment for their child. I'd like you to replicate, because I wouldn't spend more time, and I don't have much time, to look back on the story, and there's single parents, military homeless, where ex-JNA officers, unfortunately, passed away, and their children and those widows didn't wait, and they're now called, unfortunately, military homeless. They set aside 4.5% of gross income for the housing fund for years, and they didn't get apartments. In Kragujevac you still have the option, but of course as soon as you replace this incompetent Radomir, I was even told by former mayor Stevanovic, that he had personally informed the President of the Republic and wrote about it, because we had decided that Radomir Putnik, as a parliamentary group at the time, had participated in this, determined for an eight-hectare location where such apartments would be built.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60000	The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60001	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so apartments for members of security forces, the relationship now will be an extended circle of faces, not social housing, but I'd say as a layman in this area they really have one common component, which is buying under more favourable conditions. Whenever we talk about proposals for laws for which the Ministry of Transport of Construction and Infrastructure is responsible, I mention good co-operation between this ministry and local self-government where apartments are built, how much government is actually willing to help local self-governments. Speaking of single parents, with families with minimal incomes that do not have enough resources, I want to devote some time to the largest investment for building social housing in Serbia, of course not counting Belgrade, since the establishment of city housing companies in 2004 and to this day, and it is about building a large number of housing units at the same time. So, no phase construction, and it's in Nis. Of course, I want to highlight both the role and resources of the city of Nis and the City Housing Agency. Therefore, in Lamele L5 and L6 which were completed and which were moved in the period December 2017 with 70 apartments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia financed from 46 million dinars through the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure from the construction of 18 apartments for lease under non-profit conditions, which remain owned by the City Housing Agency in Nis. The rental funds remain as income to the city housing agency in Nis. The town of Nis financed the construction of 14 apartments for families whose houses were torn down on a rink in the villages of Mramor and Krusce, there were also such families that had such problems. It is worth saying that the interest in this contest for the award of apartments was large, so as many as five families competed for the rent of one apartment, and even three families competed for the purchase of one apartment. It should be said that there is still a need for this, so I am taking the opportunity to call on the Serbian government to continue working on projects like this. The public company City Housing Agency and the town of Nis did not stop with this, with the implementation of the programme, so-called Sustainable housing is already continuing its activities and there is already a new location that is defined in Nis, Petra Arangelovic, on the Ice Rock in Nis where the construction of four residential buildings with about 250 housing units is planned. So, I just wanted to say on a specific case that co-operation between this ministry, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and local units and local self-government units can also exist for families that have minimal incomes and for single parents who mostly took these apartments in Nis. Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60002	Replica? On what grounds, colleague? Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: She talked about my amendment. She talked about your amendment? You didn't know you were from Nis?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60003	Oh, you're funny, Mr. Arsic. Now we're talking about who's from where... I know where your parents are from, so we don't want to go into detail right now. Nothing that would harm this presentation of her colleague, because she wanted to affirm the town of Nis and their actions, and I, unfortunately, wanted to tell you, Mrs. Zaric Kovacevic, that I came from a city where that is not the case at all. We have the City Housing Agency, or director, where family ties are such that the new director of the swastika, Radomir Nikolic. That's really amazing. How do we expect in Kragujevac, it doesn't matter that the lady came from the Kings, she knows neither our social structure nor our single parents' problems, but imagine that, brother-in-law in the tax administration, swastika here, and what do we expect? It's not a problem that we do it that way, you're a reasonable woman and an educational lawyer, and you understand that, you need to do it systematically. It is the intensity of this amendment, that it is possible for the Government to give in this law, and yet I have mentioned two other accompanying laws, which are the House Act, the Family Financial Support Act with children, create conditions for single parents to exercise their right, which ultimately guarantees them and the Constitution to be equal to everyone else and that under these favourable conditions they can take these apartments. I believe that you in Nis have managed to make a list of how many apartments you have at the city housing agency so far, is that what your name is? With us too, who are...
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60004	Thank you. You're way out of time. Let's move on. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go. He's not here. She submitted to Article 1 of the amendment, MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60005	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have recognised the importance of solving the housing needs of security forces and expanding the circle of faces to fighters, wartime military people and peacetime people with disabilities, which we have shown you, and we will agree that this is good, this circle of people, of course, must be even wider and that is what we are looking for. Although this law applies only to members of security forces, by some other law, if it can't do this, you must also classify other categories of population that we are referring to through the amendments. As a graduate defectologist, a surdologist, I cannot, without pointing to the needs of persons with disabilities and their resolution of housing needs, regardless of the type of disability whether it is physical or sensory damage, these persons require special housing conditions. For example, if you take a blind person or an undersighted person, you know that the interiors of these apartments must be consistent with the needs, or habits of such a person. Then, persons who have physical or physical damage regardless of whether they are paraplegics, quadriplegics, these persons must be allowed a smooth approach and access to apartments, of course, and the structure of the apartment itself must be consistent with the needs of such a person. We Serbian radicals do not think that special buildings should be built for persons with special needs and disabilities because they would be discriminated against in this way, they would be completely isolated, which, of course, is not good, but within the building, so here, specifically within these buildings, or apartments for members of security forces, are there apartments that are adapted to persons with special needs and disabilities? Is that what the question book was about, were there any questions about whether there were such persons in the family? Remember, given that this law has extended the circle of faces to purchase apartments under favourable conditions and to military disabled people, that they may need such apartments to move with orthopaedic aids or may be in a wheelchair. You know, it has to be kept in mind that these people are allowed to buy apartments on some lower floors, so they can live normally. So the question is, is it within this project, did you predict housing units for those who have special needs or some kind of disability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60006	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60007	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Centre of the Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government of the town of Leskovec has a firm co-operation with the mayoral office of Leskovec and the cabinets of all the presidents of the municipality of Jablanic Management. This, among other things, is seen in the number of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons. I feel free to say that the number in the city of Leskovac is the largest in Serbia. The Ministry of Defence for Local Self-Government in Leskovac for the last four years has directed 527 candidates to volunteer military service with weapons, while at the Training Centre, which is also located in Leskovac, there were 2,500 soldiers, a large number of candidates for voluntary military service with weapons, the Centre of the Ministry of Local Self-Government of Leskovac has the popularity of Serbia's military in southern Serbia, as well as its continuous affirmative messages, information, hosting on local media and schools themselves with continuous emphasis on advertising material. With this I wanted to point out that the town of Leskovac has a need to build apartments for members of the security forces that would be bought under more favourable conditions. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure provided information based on surveys conducted by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior on the territory of the town of Leskovac. The information has the following character - among the members of the Serbian Ministry of Defence and Army in the territory of the town of Leskovac, 128 members are without any residential facility, and 53 with inadequate housing facilities, a total of 181 members of the security forces with unresolved housing conditions. With members of the MUP, 373 members agree to purchase apartments under favourable conditions, including 149 without a settled housing issue. The town of Leskovac is ready to enter the project of building apartments and owns this moment two locations ready for construction, one of which is communally equipped. For both locations there is a plan documentation, so it is possible to issue location conditions and building permits. Also, President, I would like to, since in the first part of the session I didn't get my word on it, I strongly condemn the disgusting act of assaulting the children of our President Alexander Vukic. I would like to give most of my support from this post, the People's MP, to Alexander Vukic, who leads the Serbian people and the Serbian state in the historic most difficult moments of recent history.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60008	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60009	Thank you, President. Actually, I've been waiting for a replica, but now that you've given me your word, I want to say something about building apartments for security forces. The total number of apartments planned for Nis is 2,400, and currently within the first phase of the project works are started for 190 apartments in Nis. I would like to point out that it was a plot within the Kasarna "Stevan Sidelic", which is two to three kilometers from the city center, but the whole area was bombed in 1999, and it was necessary to carry out a procedure to check if there were any unexploded missiles, even an explosion occurred, which during the injured workers and I am very sorry about that. In any case, further construction is allowed and it is good news, but in constant pyrotechnic surveillance and with controlled ground digging only to certain depths, means, gradually. I told all of this so that, first of all, I would point to the citizens of Serbia, who are following this debate, to the challenges facing which the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure are facing when building one building, and what they can come up with even bigger projects. On the other hand, I want to confirm these allegations, because it's part of a city that's been bombed many times. I live in the neighborhood and my house was destroyed in 1999, 82% and unconditional for life. But then we had one situation that we often talk about here in parliament. At that time, those who were in the Dossian government received floors, were renovated houses, new apartments, and those who were not members of the DS, such as myself, did not get anything, no bricks. Zoran Zivkovic was mayor from 1997 to 2000, Goran Ciric from 2000 to 2004. There, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's the difference between DS and SNS. SNS ministers are making apartments for all Serbian citizens, and those who were DS made apartments and houses only for DS members. I also have to say that the citizens whose houses were destroyed in the bombing asked, or were at my place when I had the citizen's reception, claim they have documentation that confirms that some who got apartments in an illegal way, as they say, now these apartments betray, have repaired their houses, so that some now have two properties, and those others couldn't afford their houses and their homes that were bombed to this day. Some have been betraying apartments for 20 years, and others continue to struggle with repairing their houses. I believe that these allegations should be examined, which is why I am speaking here at the National Assembly session, to determine whether there are malfeasances and why such discrimination was allowed against citizens, in which way it can be corrected now, that is to say, to correct the situation against those who have not received anything compared to those who have become unfoundedly rich if these malversions are found to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60010	Thank you. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60011	Mr. Minister Djordjevic, you are a very expeditious man. After Professor Stojmirovic supported the amendments to the SRS and made a good proposal to open a masonry academy somewhere in Crno Trava, only he and I should agree whether the academy should open in Crno Trava or in Ljubovija. Anyway, let's talk about this amendment a little bit. Mr. Minister, the so-called advantageous rates for resolving the housing issues of security structure workers are in fact realistic, only because of systemic errors and failures cannot be achieved without State intervention. Those who do construction work... Here, he's not here, and if he's here, he could explain that prices are actually at that level that you say will be a good price. We have proposed and supported the full names, i.e. the list of persons that you suggest should be resolved by a speedy or shortened procedure, by adding a number of other persons who might and should have the right to resolve the housing issue in this way. In particular, with this amendment that the SRS has submitted. It refers to resolving housing issues for young scientific workers. I'm taking a little bit of a risk here, a lot of these people in our house, thank God, there is, but in order to do a good illustration, I have to mention a few names. One name is Djordje Ogrizovic, who was named the world's best young innovator scientist by the World Intellectual Property Protection Organisation, who won two years ago, and won in the field of water treatment and environmental protection in competition with 220 scientific works from 27 countries in 2018. Certainly, the success achieved by the team of the Faculty of Engineering from Novi Sad is about seven names, Željeir Trišić, Sladjan Plassic, Milan Beldar, Petar Knezevic, Andrej Jusupović, Danilo Lazić, Djordje Dobrović and Branko Jekić. These are students of the Faculty of Engineering from Nis, the direction of mechatronics, who won first place in the European Championship. Do you know how they raised funds to go to this European competition? By speaking to my fellow citizen, Želimir Trišić, who is from Bratunc, on one side of the Drina River, on the other side, collected money by collecting good intentions for people with successful or less successful business entities to go to such a competition. We have to take care of these people so that they don't happen to us when they win such significant rewards that we talk for a few days, maybe we go too far sometimes, and then we forget them quickly, even though young, professional people who do scientific and research work are some even of the elementary school, Professor Atlagic. We'd have to take care of them, not forget so quickly. They're our best ambassadors in the world. It happens when they finish not primary studies, but when they finish high school to have large and good and acceptable from outside offers. They go abroad and then they don't come back and Serbia runs out of extremely good people. How important and very important these people who laid their lives on the altar of the homeland are to us young professional workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60012	The word has a National MP, Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60013	Dear Ministers with Associates, Honored Presidents of the Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I do not think that this amendment should be accepted for one reason only, and that is because this bill defines the target group to which it applies. By the way, I agree that this idea should be brought to life and that the problem of resolving housing issues of young people, especially young scientists, should be further respected, but perhaps we should try it through some other special law. I agree that by resolving housing issues under special conditions for young scientists, our young and smart citizens would be encouraged to focus their scientific research and action in the Republic of Serbia, which would be the world's top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60014	The word has a folk MP, Tanja Tomašević Damnjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60015	Thank you. President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with co-worker, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I support the government's view that this amendment be rejected, as by accepting the amendments would significantly extend the circle of persons who can exercise the right to purchase an apartment under more favourable conditions. The law applies exclusively to a specific category of persons who have contributed to the defence of the country and to the preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment promoter asks us to be in Article 1. The bill after the words "invalids" add the words "as for young scientists". The question is how realistic it is now to start building apartments and other categories of faces, but it certainly needs to be thought about in the future. The state of Serbia takes care of young researchers. In addition, the fact that last year, after eight years of break, state scientific lines were enriched with more than 820 young students of doctoral studies and 20 scientists from abroad. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministry show that for the best young researchers there is room in our scientific community, that they want to encourage them to stay in the country and achieve observed results here. Also, the Fund for Science of the Republic of Serbia this year launched a 100-day work programme for funding research projects of young scientists worth six million euros, aimed at supporting ideas from all fields of science and involving young scientists in scientific and research work. The Serbian state led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will certainly continue to invest in education and science and Serbia today has the courage to become a winner in a new world where knowledge and ideas are valued more than ever before. Finally, today, when Serbia progresses in all segments, when new factories, new jobs are opened, and all thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who gave this country hope with his work, commitment and responsibility, he and his family are getting the worst threats and insults that went beyond all the limits of common sense yesterday. These threats and insults come from those who have destroyed this land for years and brought it to ruin. That is why as a mother, as a national MP and as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I strongly condemn the monstrous attacks on President Aleksandr Vukic and his children and give him full support in his fight for normal and decent Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60016	If you want to follow the amendment, the conditions for the replica were gone. You decide if you want to follow the amendment. Thank you. You gave up. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Do you want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60017	Ladies and gentlemen, the idea is extremely good and the SRS isn't hiding it. The idea aims not only to animate, as Minister Mihajlovic says, a construction operation, to raise GDP in some way, but aims to provide housing in this case for people who are in the area of security. The Serbian Radical Party only extends to this good idea because we use the opportunity because this is an amendment to the basic law for the reason that not for every category of residents, because those who need it bring new amendments and additions to the law, and what was the basic idea other than the SRS programming? The idea was confirmed when the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, visited the Earth Gate, said something that is completely logical, was in society, or better to say, accompanied by the Prime Minister, said: "Is the diameter of the building of apartments for security workers and thus extended, can this be applied to those who are employed in health care, nurses, doctors, married couples who remain in the country? “ It is a quote from Alexander Vukic. He explained, we can't let when we invest in someone very much, that someone goes out of the country and the SRS is based on its programme and this idea is based on reality, when it's already real, nobody says it has to be armed with some date, but it stays as a legal provision and the SRS has expanded with its amendments, if you look at it, so that young couples, artists, young researchers, health workers, families with more children, families with special needs, young doctors, educators, state administration workers, single parents and young scientists. All of these are categories or layers of citizens or citizens of Serbia who are overly in need of Serbia. If you're looking at families with a lot of children, then it's demographics, over the required policies, that need to be defined. If you provide families for many children, it will also be a motive for many families not to worry about their apartment, about their roof over their heads, to decide on such a step. As for families with children with special needs, so the humanity of one society or the degree of humanity of one society shows precisely those who need to be able to function on their own, to engage in society and those who cannot in any case provide each other with a basic roof over their heads. Speaking of which, gentlemen, we're not losing sight of this project in the first stage of funding the Post Office and these are the loans that are made through the Post Office Savings. The law itself says in this investment, i.e. financing, more specifically, some others, such as business organisations, such as some other business banks, can participate, so that the possibility of funding is not only concentrated and is not only related to the available budgets of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60018	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60019	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, helping any man to resolve a life issue is certainly a good thing and every policy and every political structure that does such things certainly deserves support. It is no different when it comes to solving housing problems and certainly to this law, the fact is that both the basic law and the changes that have been made before us today contribute to resolving the housing issues of many categories and have many positive effects. One of them, here is Minister Djordjevic, in addition to the fact that it is formally correct that it is present today, I think it is also symbolically important, because this is one of the effects of these changes of law and the resolution of social status quite large, quite a wide layer of society and that is one really important effect, because we are solving the social status of a broad number of people in our country. Another important effect is a certain impact on the launch of the construction industry, namely other branches of the economy because, in general, the development of the construction industry inevitably contributes to the development of the economy in general. As a third, it is certain that this is crucial to security, because only a well-securityed, materially secure member of the military, police, intelligence, can peacefully and peacefully be committed to his work, and that ultimately contributes to the security of the entire state, us and our children. However, if we are already talking about these changes ahead of us today, there is one important, fourth symbolic effect, and it is primarily about honoring and recognition to those who have invested the most important, self, their lives, their families in defense of both this country and our people in the Balkans, in general. This is a symbolic recognition of society, a recognition of Serbia as a whole for everything they have done for Serbia and our people in the Balkans. In contrast, we had DOS authorities when these people were persecuted as wild beasts and had to be ashamed of their participation in defending their own country. These events should serve us as a reminder by 2012 but also as a teaching that such a thing will never happen again in the future. With that in mind, the president and the chairman, I congratulate you on letting you go today and letting each of us express our protest and point to everything that has happened in the last days and in the last months, and it is an insult to the president of the state. If you look a little further, we're sure he's the beginner of this and this kind of policy that we're talking about today, President Alexander Vukic. We're thinking a little bit about the causes, but also about the consequences of what's going on. The cause may be everything that happens in Shappac, and it is possible that the hatred that is coming out of the City Administration in Šapec today may be affecting some people who live there. The consequences of maybe even somewhere in the theory can be an end to this policy, because the fact is that continuing a responsible policy towards the state and the people today is indeed one difficult and thorny way, first of all, obviously for the president of the state and his family. With that in mind, I am also asking the president of the state, but also all the responsible people who work with him to continue this and this policy of raising Serbia to their feet, and we, MPs, will above all, be safe and extended hands and support to President Alexander Vukic and his family, but also to all those families in Serbia who wish well to this people and this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60020	The word is Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60021	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I've come forward on the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Zoran Despotovic, and I'll talk about him, but you didn't give me your word right away. Thank you. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I support our government's policy to include and extend rights to the categories of fighters, wartime disabled and wartime peacetime peoples, as well as families of fallen fighters. This confirms concern for those who fought or gave their lives for the freedom of their country. I am reporting on this amendment to a respected colleague who requests that the fact of the law be extended to building apartments for healthcare workers. In my discussion, supporting this law, I also expressed my desire for the government to pass a special law in which under favourable conditions flats would be provided for health workers, for educational workers, but also for other socially vulnerable and sensitive categories of the population, as well as for young scientists and other categories. But this problem must still be solved by another law, a special law, and not by those relating to apartments for security forces, as Minister Djordjevic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60022	Thank you. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60023	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. A law relating to building apartments for security forces. With my amendment, I asked for the words "as well as for state administration employees" to be added after the words "invalids". You know the position of the SRS that we in principle have nothing against doing things in this area in the way that suits our citizens the most. However, we believe that many things could have been dealt with in a different way and more effectively. In fact, this amendment speaks of young people becoming increasingly determined to work in the state administration because of poor material and social conditions. As a result, the state administration is increasingly unprofessional and incompetent for the tasks entrusted to it. There is a legitimate concern that in the near future this will create huge problems for our citizens. Experiences from some other countries tell us that my fear is justified. That's why I asked my amendment to introduce a provision into the law that would allow young, capable staff to be employed in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60024	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60025	Dear Parliament Speakers, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Col. Stojanovic, with his amendment, proposes that apartments under this law also be provided for employees of the state administration. It is not disputed that apartments should be provided for all employees of whatever sector they work in, of course, and for employees of state and local self-government. However, the state, starting with the economic power, sets priorities. For example, the Social Housing Act, which covers many social categories, was adopted. This state leadership creates economic and development assumptions and conditions that, in the coming period, I hope, make it possible to build apartments for all categories of employees. So, for building apartments under favourable conditions for other categories of employees, we expect to pass a special law. This law refers to one of these priorities, which are the security forces, the military, the police, the BIA, the Administration of Institute Sanctions, and these changes extend to fighters, war-war disabled, peace-doping military people and families of fallen fighters. The adoption of this law, and given the great importance and responsibility of the work that security forces perform, as well as their role in Serbia's national and national security, as well as for those who have made a significant contribution to the security, defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the state in all the areas of the former Yugoslavia. The law refers precisely to the fact that the largest number of unsettled housing needs of government officials is among the members of the security forces, which unfortunately have failed to resolve their housing issue permanently for decades. So, such legal projects as state leadership, the government of the Republic of Serbia systemically solves a number of accumulated life problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60026	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60027	Thank you. With this bill, the government and our President Aleksandar Vukic, thanks above all to the country's fiscal consolidation and economic stability, have created the prerequisites that the law relating to the purchase of a security force's apartment under more favourable conditions is extended to a larger number of persons. It's about building 8,022 apartments for security forces. We must surely agree in one, peace, security, security of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia are the number one priority and our President, Alexander Vukic, and this Government, and that is SNS policy. Peace, security and security are guarded by soldiers, guarded by police officers, guarded by other security forces. Soldiers, police officers, other security forces, as well as those who have suffered a great deal of pain due to the loss of their family members in wars that followed us in the late 1990s, surely deserve special attention and deserve to be met by the state and allowed to come under more favourable conditions to address the housing issue. I note, this isn't about individuals. Here are the families, families of those who once worked and protected our security and security, as well as families of those who still work today and safeguard the safety, security and peace of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the Republic of Serbia, as it is economically strengthened, will take adequate care of young scientists, both doctors and other employees of other state institutions, but we must agree that the largest number of outstanding housing issues among this category, which in the wars of the 1990s has withdrawn from the space of the former SFRY, have lived for many years as tenants, have not had an adequately resolved question and it is high time for the state to repay those who watch over us every day and those who gave their lives for today's peace and our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60028	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. He's not here. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Kennedy said it was crazy to say but only ready for war can we preserve peace. Certainly, members of security should be assured that, among other things, they will be taken care of. But we also have to take care of things. My proposal is that since GDP growth, and this housing will also affect GDP growth, building materials, bricks, ticks, parquets, etc. will grow. It will benefit the construction industry, no doubt. We need to make sure the security forces are safe. We need to equip them with high-end equipment, high-end weapons. Serbia's getting old. Serbia has a growing population, and thus, there will be fewer and fewer military personnel. That's why it's my appeal that since GDP growth, if it takes one-third of that growth to single out for the acquisition of the most modern techniques and weapons, because just like that, and a small country, surrounded by our centuries-old friends, under the pretenses, I would like to have the best relations with those neighbours, but since some of them have pretences on our territory, that such claims we don't cultivate, are not excluded that some conflicts, unfortunately, are being restarted. That's why it's necessary, except for housing, that our soldier, that our future soldier, that our reserver be sure that he is well not only well provided for housing, but that he is safe and that he will have the ultimate equipment and the ultimate weapon and that he will have the greatest chance of having with possible opponents on the battlefield by equipment and by weaponry, and that everything in the future, God forbid, the conflict depends on his courage. I believe our soldier is braver and more skilled than many others, but he needs to be equipped in a way that he can prove his ability. I don't want our air force to just take off in a possible conflict, I don't want us to have one broken plane, I don't want us to go out on a global NATO pact with broken radar, planes, etc., to sacrifice pilots, to sacrifice on a wartime of soldiers, I want them to be equipped, to have equal chances in, God forbid, a possible conflict that we're never sure we can avoid. Only the dead saw the end of the war. That is one saying, and it should be kept in mind that those who guard us have something to protect us with. We should have enough plows, make money, but we must also have enough swords to make the plow, the sword can defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60030	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60031	The land for the regular use of the building is intended to be a building plot beneath the building and a plot of 1 meter wide around the building, i.e. a property with a maximum of five meters around the building, in case there are no technical conditions for the formation of a plot with one meter around the building. This description really, I mean, nobody could read it alive before. We have said, precisely, that the land for the regular use of the building is building land under the building, as well as land for the regular use of the building in the size of the formed plot in accordance with building regulations and this is the only way possible. Whether the building plot, or whether the land for use around the building will be one metre or up to five meters, it simply has nothing to do with the profession or the science. Does it mean if you can't do one, you can do two, you can do two and a half, and five stuck one, you can't. This whole concept of law, when it comes to the formation of building plots, is not well set up. This will also be said when it comes to Article 7, where it is intended to be built in fact without a building permit, or a building permit can be issued without a building plot. The one whose profession it is and who understands this job probably can't imagine now that he's building a building without knowing what it's going to be, how much this building plot is, or how much land it's for regular use of the building, so Zorana Mihajlovic told me when she was, not to say, she didn't say it. Of course, I'm saying it's the only right time. Imagine, you say in the government that you can't accept these changes because the intensity of the promoter, the government, is to prescribe a minimum surface area of land beneath the facility. The minimum area of land below the building cannot be less than the building, I don't know how it can be less than the building, I guess it won't be a charm in the sky or on the ground, because of the different property-legal relations on the land and the possibility of obtaining the right of co-opted on land by the owners of a special part of the facility. If there are problems with different property-legal relations, what does it say, the building is not built until all property-legal relations are resolved? I hope the building isn't built until a building permit is issued. I guess the building permit isn't issued until the building plot is formed, is it? Imagine one building, building, private, residential, whatever, which has only one meter of land around the building for regular use of the building and imagine now a picture of someone wanting to set up a skeleton to paint a facade. How will they set up the skeletons and use them on only one metre of surface around the building? Only to place the skeletons within one metre and then the workers don't climb the skeletons on the outside, but to crawl between the skeleton and the building and climb on the scale from the inside. So it's just amazing, I don't know what you're trying to save up on here? You sell these apartments, under favourable conditions, truth, then do it as God commands, form building plots that will really be in line with the regulations that regulate it, and in particular it's amazing this kind of flexibility. One meter is mandatory, and if I don't know what it says, it can't be one meter, then it can be up to five meters. Again, we don't have an answer to the question – what if that construction line is up to five feet? So that's where you can't build it. You are here, i.e. the resolute minister, not you, Mr. Djordjevic, but Zorana Mihajlovic, her services here have put this all upside down. I don't even know what this is supposed to change? This law fundamentally changes only that another category of persons should be covered by these apartments that will be bought under favourable conditions, and that is only in this bill well. It is only good, therefore, that under favourable conditions apartments will be able to buy and members of families of fallen fighters, fighters, disabled, wartime, peacetime. Of course, this law is not a solution to the problem, we talked about it today and the day before when we spoke in the principle debate, who will really be able, is a large number of people covered by this law, who have not solved the housing issue. Unfortunately, most will not be able to resolve even when this law is passed, because to buy these apartments, it is necessary to provide for a certain amount of money to be paid to the bank, not as a deposit, but as part of a condition, in order to obtain credit, and the credit must be paid. You know, they're people who can't, when it comes to, for example, wartime military people, they're people who live on disability and who can't do some more work so they can solve the question of possible credit wars if they buy one of these apartments. There will be a lot of problems in the application itself, and what we are talking about in particular in this Article 2 are problems related to the formation of a building plot for construction and you really need to accept this amendment if you want these plots on which these future buildings will be built to be really building plots in terms of building regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60032	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60033	Thank you. Presidents, Mr Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of a project to build apartments for members of the Security Forces has long been available to the public on the website of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He's long gone as a suggestion and anyone could see him. So the law relating to the building of apartments of security forces brings two very important newspapers. Very important especially for that part of the public who is directly or indirectly interested in the project i.e. for building and buying apartments. Two things caused a special interest, and that's next. In addition to the former members of the security forces, these were members of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Army, the MUP, BIA and the Ministry of Justice – the Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, with this bill a circle of those who have the right to buy an apartment from this project has been extended to fighters, families of fallen fighters, wartime military people and peacetime military people with disabilities. This expansion has been accepted in public as very well and that part almost no one has any objections. Another important thing, adopted by the bill, is a priority for buying an apartment in Belgrade's territory. In the draft law in Article 3. Proposal for a law relating to Article 5. A new third position has been entered that says -- a priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions in Belgrade's territory -- has an employee of a security force whose place of employment is in Belgrade's territory. This stance has caused great interest, especially among those members of the security forces who have acquired pension in the security forces and one doubt because only in Article 9 of this bill stands the following – other members of the security forces within the meaning of this law are the priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions if they have a residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade on the day of entry into force of this law. To many of them, and some called me by phone, we talked about this, it was not quite clear, they were not entirely sure whether the priority, which was set out in the position of the third member of the bill's proposal, which refers to a member of the 5th law, so the priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions in the territory of the city of Belgrade, is an employee of security who has the place of employment in Belgrade's territory. They asked me -- who's the priority? It was not clear to them whether the priority was for someone special, e.g. Staff priorities relative to pensioners or something else. Therefore, in order to clarify this situation, I submitted an amendment in which I wrote the following in the amendment and suggested - in Article 3. The bill of law in paragraph 3 is amended and reads, and I have, in fact, combined what is in paragraph 3 and what is in Article 9. The bill, so I wrote -- the priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions in Belgrade's territory has an employee of security forces whose place of employment in the territory of the city of Belgrade, as well as another member of the security forces within the meaning of this law, that is the part that comes to Article 9, which is resident in the territory of the city of Belgrade on the day of entry into force of this law. The objective of this amendment was to allow equal treatment or at least to be clarified, the exact equal treatment of all security forces within the meaning of this law, regardless of whether they are employees or pensioners, thus avoiding retired members of the security forces with years of age and a decades of waiting for a permanent solution to the housing needs being subordinated to employees of the security forces who have a minimum period of employment and a minimum waiting period for the resolution of the residential need. All of this is, normally, so we don't get into a situation where a person who's just been employed as a member of a security force with a minimum working time, and even immediately after a job, takes priority over everyone who's retired without a permanent residential need, even though they've waited for it for years or even a few decades. It would be wrong for every newly employed member of the security force to take precedence over those who have spent the entire working life waiting to solve housing needs. The answer to this amendment of mine has, I may say, satisfied me. I received the next answer from the government – the amendment is not accepted since it is Article 9. The bill has already been prescribed that another member of the security force, within the meaning of this law, is the priority for the purchase of an apartment under favourable conditions if it has a residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade on the day of entry into force of the law. Here's an explanation - due to the need to comply with the methodological rules for the making of laws and sublaws, this provision is normised as a transitional provision. So it's put in particular in Article 9. This is to me, and to the other security forces, retired first of all, it was important because of a potential, future, requirement to perform an authentic interpretation that might perhaps be needed tomorrow, if there is a dispute. It is clear to me now that there is no priority of employees compared to retired security forces, but employed by the place of employment. Since apartments are not the territory of the city of Belgrade, it is normal and it is okay that those working in Belgrade should have priority. If it's about apartments that are in Nis, the priority will be those who work in Nis. In the King, etc. So where a security officer works, that's where he's supposed to buy an apartment, and that's fine. As far as retired people are concerned, it is important for them to have their place of residence on the day of the adoption of this law in Belgrade, i.e. in a town where they'll apply for apartments. This, in the end, is very important and this kind of explanation removes all confusion, and to me, it was essentially the goal when I submitted the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60034	Thank you. On Article 5 of the amendment, with a correction, was filed by Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60035	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we felt that this law should include everyone employed by the state administration. And you have spoken yourself several times about it from election to election that employees in the state administration should have salaries that will be in line with the new law, where payment classes will be determined and where everyone will know absolutely when they come and when they finish a certain school to work in the state administration, what their status will be, and we unfortunately, and that's the problem of our Assembly, where there can't be anything or the President of the Assembly, where there can't be anything or an Administrative board, we can just go out with a proposal for our budget, right, that's what we deliver every year, but the systematization we do, too, here, as we do in the government, is what's possible. You know, we have to encourage young people who work in the state administration, motivate them if they do a responsible job for the state that besides wages, which should certainly be more for them, have opportunities, there are plenty that work as young married couples, get to know each other, so there's some love born, get descendants, and they don't have their own residential space. It's not just a case in Belgrade, here in this institution, in the government, but across Serbia, where there really are other ways, Mr. Minister. You probably know in your ministry when it comes to the ministry what you have and what you have from the apartments, but you have cities in Serbia where no list of these apartments has been properly completed. They could be used, too. Even as far as the Inspectorate is concerned, as far as certain other institutes are concerned, they're all of course looking for that possibility, but they have apartments that maybe someone has usurped. In particular, I know about the city I come from, because the previous director, a few years ago, tried to solve this issue, but there's always something missing, because in the meantime, the head of the Board of Property of the town of Kragujevac, probably that shift, too. So it is certain that in every city, in Belgrade, and in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, there are apartments where someone usurped that right. Well, you know that you can't even get a business space on the use of one city or some parcel to fit the third person. Who knows what it's all about, but it needs to be systematically done. So, not only is it built, but it is also to take advantage of this possibility where such apartments exist and to make it at favourable prices and that they can buy and settle their housing issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60036	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. According to the amendment, the word is made by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60037	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will take advantage of this amendment to respond to the amendment of my colleague Filip Stojanovic. Although I answered the word after that amendment, I didn't get the right to speak, so now I'm taking that opportunity. It shows here, through this application, or amendment, what I said earlier, that there are many different categories that want to compete for these apartments and that there are many people with us who want to solve this problem. This second part, related to staff members of the administration, which was pointed out by counterpart Filip Stojanovic, is that in the future we will face the fact that we will not have quality people, or that we will not have enough staff in state bodies, or administration. That's true, but who needs to solve this problem? Those who operate these bodies, i.e. to have the right personnel policy, should be resolved, and there is an area called career planning within this human resources policy. Now, that's where we have to teach the employees, and the people who work in that personnel service, or what they like to call it today, human resources or something like that, that they have to take care of career planning from the moment they graduate from school, colleges or courses to some and get to work, all the way to retirement. Well, we're doing this stuff now, and there's a big problem. We need to prepare those people who come after school or college to get acquainted with the technology of work and gradually master all knowledge, to advance to really have quality service in the authorities of the state administration. If it continues with practice, that people who have completed some schools or colleges come directly to important, or executive places, we will make this big mess and there will be a problem, because we will not have quality personnel who need to do these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60038	The word is Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60039	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting after the amendment to Article 5. The bill requires that the purchase of an apartment under special conditions, which would permanently resolve the housing needs of security forces, also covers families with more children. The problem of family care with more children must not be forgotten, nor in any way neglected. In line with the weight of this problem, the state has already regulated this issue by a special social housing law. With regard to amending and supplementing the Law on special conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces relating to a particular category of person, or members of the security forces, with the exception of members of the family of a fallen fighter, I do not consider that the issue of housing of families with multiple children is necessary to be covered and regulated by this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60040	Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does he want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I continue to urge that, apart from living care for the security forces for the fighters, for the relatives of the fallen fighters, I continue to appeal that we better equip and arm our army. The Serbian custom is described in the following words - when trouble comes, God and a soldier are calling for help. When trouble passes, God forgets, a soldier disrespects. We have no right to such a mistake. Out of respect for soldiers who have shown their courage against a stronger, better-armed opponent, it is our obligation to give to future fighters in some that, God did not give, to future conflicts, the chance of equating our soldiers with those, at least those they might fight. But I'd like them to be better equipped than possible attackers. It is my desire that we, who are in charge of the state at this time, try to raise economic activity and extract money from that economy, not only for the existence of our employees, our soldiers, but also for equipment and weapons, and thus put ourselves in a position that no one can attack us in the future, which was the case just twenty years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60042	The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does he want a word? (No) The 5th Amendment with the correction was filed by the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60043	Article 5 is prescribed that the purchase of an apartment under favourable conditions, regardless of the area and structure of the apartment, is considered to be a permanent residential need of a security force within the meaning of this law. This member is also missing this addition to the fighters and families of fallen fighters, but we have not intervened in this regard, but this is also an obvious failure of whoever wrote this bill, because this has to apply to everything. But since this member of the law is related to Article 1 of the Law, then we have proposed for all those categories that we think should be settled under favourable conditions, to be of course within this Article 5. In particular, my amendment applies to young doctors, as the SRS represents the view that Serbia must do everything in its power to keep young doctors in Serbia. Of course, for nurses and not so young doctors, doctors with experience. It also applies to scientists, engineers, all those professions leaving Serbia because it is hard to live in Serbia. Doctors, young doctors find it hard to hire. It is inadmissible given the state of health, that there is a single young doctor who is unemployed, it is inadmissible. It is true that these actions were when the ministry hired, i.e. the employment of health institutions, but were intermediated by the ministry, doctors with the best success, doctors who were excellent students, but also those who weren't excellent students, they had to work even if we didn't have such a problem with health workers, with the escape of health workers from Serbia, because literally, we would have to make sure that when there's nothing to look for on the work desk. We still have doctors who volunteer for years to wait for the workplace to go to work, work, help as much as they can to wait for a job. We have young doctors today who pay for the specials themselves, and even if they get hired in the meantime, if they've paid two, three wars for specialization and they're hired and they're going to remain specialists where they've been hired, no one's paying them back what they've already paid. We have young doctors today who pay for their doctoral studies, so there's a lot of things we have that's not solved, especially young doctors, and we're boasting that the situation is different. No, this is a real and real state. We then thought it would really be for the state, above all, well that when some more favourable conditions are provided for the provision of living space, it should certainly include young doctors. You said, Minister, that it would be one day, and we're just saying that it should be part of this law, that when you decide, you say -- there's not enough resources now. We can understand everything, but when you decide, we hope that it will be very soon, that you do not have to wait for the law to go through the government again, the Assembly, etc., but that you have it in the law. You know, you make the law. Yesterday when we talked about a law where two members of the law say it will apply when Serbia joins the EU, it means never. That's the law you've passed. So why can't you pass this law to accept our amendment, but it will apply in a year? Here, that you have a year of room to provide the funds, that and all these categories, and I'm specifically talking about young doctors, to ensure that all these people solve their housing issues, so not to get an apartment, but under favourable conditions, they can buy an apartment. Something increased for doctors and nurses, another increase is announced, which might be, well, the reason they can decide on this loan to buy these apartments. And just, please, ministers, the question that was for Zorana Mihajlovic, but since she must be camping on Corridor, then the question to you, so tell her. I asked Nela Kuburovic, Minister, if she had any information, because as we talked about the law on enforcement and security, many people reported to us, among other things, a group of families, part of families living in Dipos's apartments. They ask, they thought maybe the minister of justice knows it, they were in a conversation with the minister of justice, and also with Zorana Mihajlovic, they ask why they can't buy these apartments, why they can't re-open the ad, it was reportedly called once, so no one answered, why they don't do it again. They've been living in these apartments for decades. They pay rent, people say, rent, for those apartments. There are also some people who are in charge, who are in debt, do not pay for it regularly, etc., but here I speak first of all, because someone here boasted about helping refugees and displaced people, this question was asked by people who came during these last wars, who also escaped or exiled and there lived several families of former officials, even ministers of the former Republika Srpska. So they're not asking for anything to bow to them, but they're asking for and asking if it's possible to re-sell these apartments and buy them on some more favourable terms than the market price of those apartments. You know, the state can't exactly see to it that it's taking absolute advantage of everything, and it doesn't even show a little humanity when it comes to its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60044	Thank you. The word is Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60045	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, I would agree with the government's view that this amendment is rejected, because certainly the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, showed in the previous period that they are actively working on creating better conditions for all citizens of Serbia, whether they are pensioners, doctors, health workers at all or any other category of population. What we showed in the previous period is that we were just working on passing good laws as regards young doctors and healthcare professionals in general, so we just passed good health laws where we assigned specializations to doctors, although it threatened to run out of healthcare professionals, or doctors of certain specialities. In fact, I think it was 2018 that over 2,000 health workers were employed, which means that one responsible policy is at all levels, so for all categories of the population. What I would add to this on this occasion when this law is at stake and when it comes to resolving the housing issue of persons working in security services, it is also that you, as defence minister, have allocated the keys to 33 apartments in Kruševec, so that you work not only for certain areas, but the whole of Serbia is progressing. That is why it is the huge support of citizens in all previous elections, so not only this ministry, but all other ministries and, of course, our President of the Republic care about all categories of population. I have no doubt that during another period there will be discussions about laws that will solve housing issues and other categories of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60046	Thank you. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60047	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem that arises in the discussions of some fellow MPs when it comes to expanding this list of housing purchases is contained in financial resources, restrictions on financial resources. The public needs to know, these aren't apartments that give away, these aren't apartments where the state invests, or invests funds, and these funds don't come back. This is a mortgage sale of apartments, with the most favourable price of a square meter apartment here, and there is the role of the state which in some ways is reflected in the infrastructure, in the land, etc., it contributes to that price being acceptable. When it comes to providing funds, gentlemen, don't forget, we just had a controversy about the Gredile ravine. The ravine ravine is itself projected at a maximum of about 50m euros. There's been an amount of 83 million, that's 30 million. You need to look for a cause. The cause is, among other things, due to the irresponsible behaviour of the resolute minister. The resolution minister gave up on her own, forced her to give up the project that the CIP did. The project house that has been checked has done the project properly, as the field conditions require, with a much greater security factor. However, the decision was obvious to be affected by the minister. Now that 30 million we need to justify. That 30 million, don't forget, I just remind you, in your material you have, the first phase – 1.578 apartments, that's 65 million euros for you, half of the minister spent on the Greek ravine. Second, where's your Elektroprivreda? Where's your Telecom? Where's your 'Dunav Insurance'? These are work organisations, i.e. systems that are still owned by the state. The law stipulates they can participate. You don't touch Elektroprivreda. Why? You put a man, everything that comes, everything that's excess is divided into wages. If the Wolf hadn't figured it out, if he had taken it and put it in his budget, God would have asked you, where would the money have ended? What's the logic of things? Serbia's electricity companies need electric engineers, need machine engineers, need construction engineers, all profiles engineers need, need lawyers, need economists. It's a mortgage sale and Elektroprivreda can place one part of its capital in the construction of these apartments, it's not irrevocable, it's multiple returns to them. Telekom Srbija also, the Danube Security, are companies, so I don't list everyone else. They're companies, but there's no ruling coalition, there's no obvious feeling that they should put some pressure on those people who are in charge. It's incomparable, but we're taking the opportunity, here's what happened to the unkind event we've been commenting on during this session, where literally a minor female child is being bullied, where a pedophile appears. Who's responding? The MPs respond, which is also normal, which is understandable, insisting that the MUP come out as soon as possible with all the information on who did this work, which was published by this text. And where's Brankica Jankovic? Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, where is he now? Has she appeared somewhere in public, condemned it, and knows to stand up for a journalist who defies Serbia and the Serb people in Srebrenica and says that genocide has been committed and that Serbia is actually genocide and that she is ashamed to live in that Serbia, which will finally not admit that she participated in the genocide in Srebrenica. And you keep quiet, you don't react. Let her go, God asks you why. We don't care about that, but here it's concrete, you can influence the director of Elektroprivreda, the director of Telekom, or Telekom, Danube Insurance and all those companies that have real potential to get involved in these projects, and it's coming back to them multiple times, more than it's coming back, possibly to a business bank like the Post Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60048	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60049	Thank you, President. I have answered to speak according to the previous amendment, and thank you for giving me your word, so I will use that to say I simply need to say that the President of the State, Mr. Vukic and the Government, as well as the Ministry of Health, are working intensively on the policy of staffing the health system for the employment of young health care professionals, as well as the approval of the training, i.e. specialisation, so that over the past four years more than ten thousand healthcare workers have been employed and more than six thousand specializations have been approved. Also, Serbia's top medical faculty graduates, 100 of them, received a month ago job across Serbia in health institutions, as well as doctoral studies and specialisations, of course that trend and such activities will continue in the future. Namely, conditions are also created for healthcare professionals to have the best working conditions and environment possible, and a new increase in wages in the health sector is announced so that all of this encourages staying and working in their country as well. Statistics show that health workers are leaving rich countries. It's just the law of the market. Doctors from Germany are going to richer countries in the Middle East, so nothing should surprise that. Also, President Aleksandar Vukic said he would examine the possibility and similar way to build apartments under similar conditions for doctors, nurses, and young couples, and young scientists, and educational workers and other categories, so I sincerely believe that that will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60050	Thank you. On amendment 5, MP Petar Jojic submitted. The 5th amendment with the correction was submitted by Parliament member Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60051	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here, but also all other amendments, which, on Article 1, are on Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of a project for building apartments for members of security, wanted to draw your attention to the need to address the housing issue in addition to members of security forces, that the housing issue should also be addressed to other categories of population representing, or contributing to, the progress of society. Since you have rejected these amendments, because you say that the law applies exclusively to a particular category of person, specifically to members of the security force, we hope that in some future, not so long period, you will expand the circle of persons who will be able to make the purchase of the apartment and resolve their existential issues under favourable conditions because the state must care equally about each citizen. We agree that security forces contribute to the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and our security in general, but the contribution of other categories of persons we have proposed in these amendments, such as doctors, nurses, workers and so on, is not negligible. We, by resolving the housing issue of these persons mentioned in our amendments, are preventing a dowry of personnel from the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we will prevent Serbia's citizens from looking for a better future abroad despite the increase in wages and must allow them to solve this existential issue and that buying apartments under favourable conditions is not only part of a pre-election campaign but also being realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60052	The word has a folk letter from Andrian Avramov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60053	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers, respected citizens, fellow MPs, important amendments are now ahead but I simply have to comment on the subject of the current amendments regarding today's incident of attack and hatred, unfortunately today's threat to our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic and his children. If you attack children, you attack our children, and so does my child. I really can't help but ask the opposition who loses all possible parameters and the greatest quality, which is humanity above all. What is being achieved with such hatred for other people's children, women, all our members and our president? You will never be able to endanger any right to free opinion. I'm sure after this morning's incident, the whole public and all of us SNS members are crying out for a verbal delinquent to be reintroduced into criminal law. Unfortunately, we live in a society that tolerates hatred, but that hatred destroys our social potential. My answer to all who hate is that the SNS led by our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, will literally work even more and better to further realize the success of the success that brings positive changes for our country of the Republic of Serbia and our citizens, because dear citizens of hatred does not create anything good, but creates problems. I have another question for the opposition - what do citizens actually have out of hate? Is that hate doing any good to our citizens? Does that bring you luck and success? The Serbian Progressive Party cares about all the citizens you hate and members of our community, or society. You hate those you don't even know, those who didn't do anything personal to you. For the end, hate never calms down by hate, but only by its absence. We don't give to our children, the struggle has created the nature that we follow, the law is eternal and unchangeable. Success, result, argumentated policy and this hatred of yours you have actually encouraged us to remain consistent in our policies that are patiently and fundamentally building, that we will never be afraid to make public our political commitment, that we will fight even more to defend our status, the status of our people, the president, and most of course our children and their families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60054	The 5th amendment with correction was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60055	Dear fellow Members of the People, through this debate, we have failed to pass an integrated law regarding resolving the housing needs of workers, security services. These corrections are acceptable to us. Of course, we pointed out when the law was passed last year, that this should be included, and now we have been defined to propose amendments, to include a certain number of persons in solving this issue. Those covered by this bill and the basic law have already earned it or most of them have already earned it. We have one group of people, maybe they're not even looking for a solution to this problem right now, but the state as responsible, as a socially responsible state, as a country that wants to develop a perspective not only for generations that are currently contributing, but also for those who will appear in the future, we would have to take care of them. I am pleased by the fact that most MPs, when they report to speak on our amendments, accept these amendments essentially, but I suppose because of this harmony that you want to keep on having, you are not for such amendments. Once again, this is the real price of the apartments you're talking about. Of course, in Serbia, it is not on the commercial market under these conditions because it has a system failure, I have to tell you, and it should not be hidden, it is known that investors pay in addition to all the obligations that are visible and certain amounts to those who allow them to build, invest, both in Belgrade and elsewhere, with those prices perhaps different. Based on that, based on the size of the business, Mr. Minister, it's not the same thing when it's being built, I don't know 100 apartments, or when it's building 1,000 apartments, which makes it possible to come to a price that's much more favourable. What we have specifically suggested in this article concerns the assistance of families who have children with special needs. I can't say, there are some colleagues who are originally professional, who know better than I do and follow it more closely, the state intervenes but very often with delay, very often ineffective and then we count on these families to be helped. It's not easy on the one hand, and on the other hand, there's no greater happiness, there's no greater satisfaction being a parent, but it's not easy, and it's especially not easy for parents who have children with special needs, I think not only this category, but many others should be solved, and it really would be an integral one good text. I recently talked about a mathematical genius from Cačka, that's Jovan Stevic, who was like a child who had escaped along with his mother, with KIM, for a year changed seven apartments in Chačka. Although the state has no hearing of such, some countries have appeared and sought, offered help, offered to go to Norway, Sweden and others not to list, this is certainly how it is. I've had a chance to be in an apartment that he's using with his mother and I can't even tell you what the conditions are. The family never asked for it, did not ask for it, but the state should, above all, have the Prime Minister, so there is the President of the State and Minister of Education, not far from the need for the minister to work on wrinkles and social issues, that he too is thinking about showing good faith. These are the categories of population that we have proposed to solve within this, I do not mind that the priorities remain those that have been together with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, even if these categories that we SRS MPs have discussed should be on some waiting system, but to show that there is a good will by the state to resolve it. It seems to me that sometimes you overemphasise, I don't want to deal with it, challenge it, overemphasize the role of the president of the state in solving some of the problems. Serbian citizens have also shown a good will for many financial problems to be solved in this way, which is very dignified, perhaps by tightening their teeth by 10%. Profits can, in some ways, be corrected that they do not notice that they are damaged, but a 10% pension reduction, it has been acquired by law, so the behaviour of Serbian citizens, they wanted to participate in solving these economic, financial problems. And, you remember earlier, during the government of that regime that many citizens said -- we're ready to work a certain number of months, some years and without pay, even, but let's see the perspective, see the future for us and for our children. I think you should have accepted these amendments, because they really meant to help the citizens of Serbia in the best way that we care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60056	The word has a People's MP named Branim Rancic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60057	Thank you. I point out the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Here in this high house, some words are used, where I as a doctor, a neuropsychiatrist, have to react. This is where people with disabilities are referred to themselves, that is, with a diagnosisal handicap. It is not desirable to use, i.e. to avoid calling people with disabilities, or disability as a paraplegic, because we heard it in the presentation of a colleague, and therefore should be spoken - a person with paraplegia, i.e. a person with tetraplegia or a person with celebral paralysis. So these are the right terms to use. Also, the previous speaker used the word - people with special needs. It is therefore important to clarify the terminology used in people with disabilities, or disability. People, sir, have the same needs whether there is disability or not. So people have the same needs, or special needs, whether they are disabled or not. [[President: You do not have the right to replica and direct address.]] For example, a special need is both the need for smoking and the need for alcohol, but this is a negative special need. A positive special need is the need for people to keep moving. Here, it's just one of my well-intentioned discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60058	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You didn't convince us. The most important thing is that no one had any evil intention to discriminate between people and categories of disability. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60059	Thank you, Chairman. I'll get the amendment. I hope that in the next period before us we will adopt draft laws concerning the projects of some new apartments, cheap, under favourable conditions for all other categories of population, but this is an addition to the law which represents a project of importance for the national security of the Republic of Serbia. Article 5 explains the right to purchase. The bill further regulates the conditions and procedure for the implementation of the construction project for all those who contributed to their participation in the defence of the country. Thus, all under equal conditions will be able to permanently resolve their living need with the requirements set out, starting with the largest number of unresolved housing needs among security forces, which have failed to resolve the housing issue for decades. It was necessary to find an adequate system solution, and thanks to the government that is making huge efforts and planning, the state is now the main investor of major projects that are of public interest in order to ensure economic growth, increase citizens' standards, financial stability and, of course, to enable the strengthening of the security sector, which is guaranteed peace and political stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60060	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Filip Stojanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60061	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. A bill relating to building apartments for security forces. I asked my amendment to add the word "young artist" after the word "security". It's similar to my previous amendment, where I voiced concern that the state administration would put itself at a standstill with this kind of policy. Here I express another kind of fear. It's about art institutions and young artists. No legal solution so far has predicted, not even mentioned this category of our citizens. And these are the citizens of our country who, in many cases, contribute to our country's affirmation worldwide. Why not give them the opportunity to come to a solution to their housing issue under favorable conditions. Since it is a specific activity, it is also a way to keep these young people in their homeland. There are many open questions here that can negatively affect an idea that in itself is not bad and why does such an idea not extend to a larger part-round of young people who, unfortunately, are less and less left to live in Serbia? So I urge you to accept this amendment of mine, because it is in the interest of many who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60062	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60063	I have to say, it's a little easier for me now. My colleague Rancic intervened, I said go to immunity, the prison doesn't die here, but, it's fine, although I've been working on this amendment for a long time and I've been looking for an adequate expression, because the point is that these people are being helped and it's left in theory and literature just like I was saying, but now it's not so important. You suggested that the person who solves the housing issue in this way should not alienate that apartment for more than 10 years. We think it's a long period, that some changed circumstances can occur that can't be affected by the user's living space, so we thought it appropriate to suggest that this deadline be reduced from ten to five years. There's a problem here that you haven't devoted to at all. Yesterday we talked about the previous few days, about the conduct of public executioners, what will happen if these people before they even move into these apartments or when they move in under the influence of public executioners? So what happens if they collapse like that to execute that solution? Will someone help them and stop at their protection? You could, dear colleagues, see that out of the 32 amendments to this bill, the SRS submitted 27. Twenty-six amendments concern concrete proposals that are not to say better, but would have been more complete, if you had accepted the amendments, and in an uncomparably better way to solve the problem of the citizens of Serbia who expect, who deserve special attention from the state. When we say states, I mean a system that is currently in power and a system that makes up the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60064	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60065	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gojkovic. Well, I was encouraged by that discussion about education, and I wanted to share my thoughts with both my colleagues and my citizens. You know, education, besides health care, is another very important segment essential to society. If we consider that education has an educational character and that it is responsible for the process of directing the personality in the desired direction from early childhood, to the achievement of psychophysical maturity, and that through this process we form as people, i.e. as a nation, and that in this process we get knowledge, skills and values, it is clear that people, i.e. educational workers who own enough and knowledge and skills themselves, are involved in this process to pass on what is best to students. This is a very responsible job and it is certainly important for its performance that certain conditions include meeting some of the needs of the educational staff. But first of all, we must strive to remove one phenomenon in a society that I want to draw attention to, which has begun to spread. It's about the next one. There's this show on TV, you've probably seen, where young people are being interviewed on the street, and it's due to what the Alliance of Serbia is propagating, which is what Serbian citizens share on the elite under which they mean themselves and their supporters, and these others to stupid, credentials. Now, I guess that's what led the show's author to check whether that's exactly how those who plead against the current authorities are asking questions of the type – do you know that Vukic decided to eliminate dentists, to remain just dentists? Yeah, otherwise they're consistent with the insults on the Wolf's account. Or to ask if you've heard that Vukic took Winston Churchill, a crime counselor, the answers are yes, we know, a shame, we read the news, so they tell Churchill there's nothing to look for in Serbia, etc. In fact, these are fictional joke questions, and Churchill hasn't been among the living for a long time, and in all this I don't understand one thing – why don't they say no, I don't know? It's just, having no knowledge of anything isn't a shame, but lying certainly is. Having no knowledge is not an irreparable loss. People learn all their lives. Education and health care are in the focus of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and much has been achieved in these areas. Now, education is much greater, so I hope that progress in education will reflect this phenomenon that I was talking about, because for young people, the world remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60066	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Rade. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60067	When we discussed this bill the other day here with Zoran Mihajlovic, we asked if it was true, and information appeared, that some of the buildings in Nis are being built within the framework of the project related to this law, about apartments that will be purchased under favourable conditions by representatives of the security service, and after these today's changes and members of fallen fighters, military and peacetime people with disabilities, information appeared that some of these buildings were not provided with all the permits. It was then that Zorana Mihajlovic categorically refused. She said it wasn't true. But looking at this article seven. The bill of law, I'd say it would be common to build all these objects or most of these objects without certain permits. What's this about? It is provided for in Article 7 here that a building permit may be issued before the formation of a cadastral plot for the regular use of the facility, with the obligation to form a cadastral plot for regular use for the purpose of the facility to be built on a building plot representing land for regular use, with the obligation to form a building plot before the use of the permit is granted. So this isn't normal. A building permit can be issued on a specific already formed building plot. The building plot must have its limits. Construction of a building on a building plot must be in line with the construction line set by urbanists. So it can't be built, so it can later form a building plot. We asked the other day, and now I repeat - what if a building plot is formed, so its border goes through the living room of one of these apartments or what if the facility is built, and it turns out that, let's say, beneath the part of the building plot there are underground cables, that there are installations, that there are underground cathedrals that can't be changed. So you just can't go backwards. It has to be, as much as you're in a hurry, but only on paper, which is why you've recently passed the Planning and Construction Act, which is why the law on law enforcement and the cataster, and as a result of these nakarad laws, is their inapplicability in practice. That's why we have laws, and we don't have the results of the application of those laws. That's why we have law enforcement laws, we don't have legal facilities. That's why we have laws from the construction area, and now we're supposed to build an object, imagine, without a formed building plot. We think that this is both professional and unprofessional and non-serious and that it's just the law of such order that we're doing, and that we're going to have problems in the application of the law again. If this article were to be applied, there could be big problems in the subject of possible expropriations and property-legal relations, and at all, it simply cannot be done by heart if we are to advocate the introduction of order into this area, then this law and any other law that regulates the construction area should be introduced. If we say we have millions already, the number of objects that were built without a building permit counts, what does that mean? Now we'll build with a building permit, but we won't have a building plot. Well, what's the building permit going to say about building an object on the part of the plot on the left of the right corner, or I don't know how it's going to be, what place is this building going to be if we don't have a building plot? So, what kind of minister such as the bill and the damage, the only thing that went down was that Minister Djordjevic tried to say something on behalf of the government according to our amendments, but here was not much of a man going in because he knew that we had submitted amendments that should have certainly been accepted. There will soon be an amendment and an addition to this law, as well as any other law, precisely because you don't listen to the profession, the science, or the practice, simply, you want to put the line in, to write in some report we've passed so many laws, you'll never say how much it's really just an amendment and an addition to the law, but you're fulfilling one of your agendas, which unfortunately few of whom in this country have any use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60068	The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60069	Thank you, Your Honor. By listening to the proposed amendments of my colleagues today, I can conclude that there are no fundamental and no objections to the draft law, or amendments to this bill, other than the proposal to extend the categories of persons who would participate in this project of building apartments and buying apartments under more favourable conditions. I must stress that the SNS parliamentary group has no objection to the expansion of these categories, but of course when economic conditions are created for such a thing, it certainly cannot be overnight. I just want to point out once again that we have just changed and complemented this law done to extend the categories of people to other members of the security force, where police members, the Serbian Army, members of the BIA, the Ministry of Defence, including families of fallen fighters, then fighters, as well as wartime military disabled and peacetime military disabled, which will increase the total number of people who will solve their living issue, i.e. their life issue. Certainly, the priority of resolving the housing issue of employees, i.e. members of security forces, is that the largest number of outstanding housing issues is among the members of the security forces. In this way, the state will repay them and say one big thank you, so there is absolutely a justification for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60070	Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60071	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the tradition of the Serb army rests on the peasants, they defended their houses of the family, the fields, they were not aggressors, they were not warring for glory, they were defending that glory. We need to show, number one, that as a nation we will not die in vain, that our soldier will be well placed, but that we will not expose him to other people's wars, that we will no longer die for others, but that we will live for ourselves. We also need to show the difference between us and those who aren't here today, who didn't appreciate human life, who didn't equip the army. He says, well-armed army, that's what I stand for, with a special technique that, for God's sake, we don't spend people, but technique. These before us left us a well-armed army. Serbia was not a military neutral. Serbia was militaryly neutralized. The tanks were sold for five thousand dollars, dipped in various ironworks. They boasted that they retired officers with the most experience and that they had well disarmed our army. The Serbian paradox, those who ruled Serbia, can be seen in the fate of Tibor Cerna, a soldier from Koshar who died, of Hungarian nationality. The moment he died, he was far less and less armed than the attackers. To neutralize a better armed man, he offered his sacrifice. They say that he said lastly: “This land is worth dying for. ” At the same time, in 1999, the one who was saying that Vucic settled Hungarians, and Tibor Cerna was Hungarian, Sergei Trifunovic practically fled to the aggressor side, went to America during the war. At the time, Djilas scratched ads in the Czech Republic, little Vuk Jeremic, future adviser to top commander Boris Tadic and the defence minister sent the father to England so the kid wouldn't smell gunpowder, and the great fighter "Boskić Zutic", "Boskić Ljotic", at the time did not go to Kosovo to die, but to open, or run the newspaper "Dveri". Today, the same one is ready in the group to die, not for Kosovo, but for the Gilas and Solak businesses. We need to look at their mistakes. We should appreciate and equip our armies. People are mortal, people are dying, the glory of freedom fighters never dies and Tibor Cerna's message, at the moment we raise an army and raise military power, when we no longer have only one plane, when our army is not naked, when our army is not hungry, when our army is not disarmed, when our army will no longer be turned into homeless, Tibor Cerna's message would be, "This country is worth living for." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60072	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60073	First of all, there is the greatest demand for apartments in the city of Belgrade. We were informed last year by the Prime Minister that 19,000 are interested in buying apartments this way. All 8,000 apartments are to be worked in this planned phase, over 8,000 apartments in the first phase envisioned by the Serbian government. What's the point? The bottom line is that financial resources are provided in terms of credit and it's not a gift, as we warned, it's not a social category in the full sense of the word, it's a credit responsibility at the Post Office, and today, tomorrow, it might be a business bank. Here's to the case of the city of Belgrade. A 60-square apartment, one that decides to buy that square, will have a monthly obligation of 118 euros. That apartment should cost 33,000 at the price of the sale. Why? Because 500 euros is the price of a square meter plus VAT, that's 550 euros, that's 60 squares times 550, that's 33,000 euros. When you multiply the monthly war by 12 months and 30 years, since it's a 30-year mortgage sale, you get 42,480 euros. The bank earns 9,480 euros per 60-square apartment. In the structure of 8,000 apartments, let's assume it's 2,000 flats of 60 square meters. We're taking some minimum. It's not a negligible asset that needs to be made by a bank. There's another variant, when you take a dinar loan, there's interest much bigger, not so drastic, but when you take it in dinars, it's 17,000 for a 60-square apartment. Seventeen thousand is a month's war, times 12 months and times 30 years, that's 6,420,000 dinars per course that we hope will be stable in 30 years, because we heard a promise that it will be stable, that's 54,406,7 euros. When we look at it, there's a much bigger difference in favour of the bank, it's 21,406 euros over 30 years, times 2,000 apartments, as we say, even though the structure of 60 square meters is much more representative in these total over 8,000 apartments. So it's a clear bill that this isn't about a gift. This is about the role of the state, i.e. the particular government, which will provide concrete provision in Belgrade, for the start of the big curve. It's a land that used to belong to the Institute, or the Institute, and that land is taken for these needs, but it's not, gentlemen, taking away for nothing, it's got to be made up somewhere. It belongs to the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade, given at its disposal, needs to secure infrastructure and must be paid for. There's nowhere to stay unpaid. The bank comes out here as the ultimate winner. If anyone thinks this is a minimum win, you're wrong. The total profit for last year, see the NBS report, business banks in Serbia are around 500,000. Here, in 30 years, significant funds are being made by the bank. Every business bank, not every one, but most of them will be interested in entering this project. That's the point. The number of those interested in Belgrade will be increased. Now, here in the amendment and addition of the law, it is predicted that members of the other security forces can buy an apartment if they have a report of residence in Belgrade. Why limit people to reporting their place of residence? If they work in Belgrade, of course they're interested in buying an apartment in Belgrade. We were just listening, why should other security members be discriminated against over that part that has the right to the very fact that it does in Belgrade? Why are we quoting these exact figures? Ask yourselves, gentlemen, can one who enjoys a disability pension pay off these wars in the next 30 years? The apartment is mortgaged, in case it does not regularly settle its obligations, the apartment is taken, taken by the bank, because the mortgage by the bank is placed on this apartment. One hundred eighteen euros is acceptable, but I remind you again of something – both from the beginning of 2000 and 300 and 500 euros was acceptable for married couples, even loans in Swiss were acceptable. You've seen how fast that changes. Suddenly, from what is acceptable, which is favourable, it turns into something that has become a nightmare for many Serbian citizens. Yesterday, among other things, we had this debate. So citizens need to be informed what the essence of this whole project is. The idea is good, the goal is good. Serbian radicals support such ideas, but it must be made clear what means the realization of an idea like this – means monitoring a business bank. That is why we remind you again – we have large systems in Serbia, called "Electroprivreda", which are called "Telecom" and which are called "Dunav Insurance". Financially, they have potentials, they can find their own interests in this on much more favourable terms. Don't be sure that in 30 years, people will be able to serve exactly, especially when it comes to this foreign exchange part of the payment, or the foreign currency part of the obligation. Perhaps this loan, which is in dinars, interpreting all of this based on dinar stability, which is relatively, is relative to the stability of dinars, you know, not only depends on Serbia, it depends on a number of external factors what the rate will be and what the relationship will be with dinars and euros or dinars and dollars. So, you have to tell people that it's not, at first glance, as it seems, so convenient and so certain. There's a lot of things people need to think about. We took the example of Belgrade, for a simple reason, because it is the greatest interest, and nothing is better when it comes to other cities. And other cities, when you calculate what a month's war is, when you turn it into a 30-year period, it's a significant asset, primarily that makes a bank, and secondly, and the resources that will be allocated, especially this socially endangered category. The very fact that pensioners are still disabled means great uncertainty in these people's wage power.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60074	The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60075	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, this amendment should not be accepted. This amendment says Article 9. The bill should be deleted, but Article 9. The bill reads: "Other members of the security forces within the meaning of this law are the priority for buying an apartment under more favourable conditions if they have a residence on the territory of the city of Belgrade on the day of entry into force of this law." As in Article 3(3), paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The bill says who has priority over employees, so this Article 9 says who has priority over other security forces, thinking, above all, of pensioners and unemployed. If one of those who are not employed in the security forces, and has the right to apply for the purchase of this apartment, lives already in a city, it would not be good if we, by this bill of law now force those people to move, let's all go to Belgrade now. I don't think that's the idea. That's one thing. Second thing, I need to draw attention to the next one. One of the previous speakers, I will be specific, Sreto Peric, has resented us, I must say, why we resent President Aleksandr Vukic as someone who launched this project to build apartments for security forces. Well, who should we praise? Who? That we will not praise by chance Slobodan Milosevic, perhaps Vojislav Kostunica, Natasa Micic, and she has been president for some time, who, Boris Tadic? Unfortunately, neither can Tomislav Nikolic. Alexander Vukic has launched this project. If it wasn't for him, this project wouldn't have happened. Normally we'll praise him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60076	Thank you. No replica He expressed his position and position as his parliamentary group. [[Milorad Mircic: How is there no replica?]] (Milorad Mircic: He did not state his position, but deceived the public. No, it's not. Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. Do you accept the amendment? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60077	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60078	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. Do you want to defend the amendment? Milorad Mircic: Here are these two minutes. Well, if you don't want to, that's fine. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does Sreto Peric want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60079	I'm just going to make it right on Article 11. I don't blame anyone, everyone has the right to praise whoever they want, I just said that it's too accentuated, it's on one side. On the other hand, a blade is taken or other organs are humiliated. I guess we should be the primary goal of building a strong system, that's the essence of parliamentary democracy. However, you can do whatever you want, it's not disputed. This is the last amendment to the last member. Article 196. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicted when laws and other general acts enter into force. It's only accurate here, there's one term, and that's eight days from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". Mostly the start of calculating the time limit for entering a law is the day of publication and is said to be eight days, and it is said – and in exceptional cases it can be shorter. A longer deadline than this can be, for now he's not precise, he can be shorter. Your manner is somehow often to approach these proposals to bring the law into force on the day of publication. Now it's a little awkward, I'll mention Mrs. Damnjanovic, who has no right and the ability to suit me. She's an experienced lawyer, she's been working for a long time in this ministry, I think Oliver Dulic, maybe even before, and that's about your fault. It's about principle, it's not... And in an explanation why you didn't accept the amendment, you said all deadlines were very urgent in this law. We don't argue, but because the law will take effect eight days after the day of publication, your concept doesn't interfere with anything. I must finally say that I am pleased that all MPs of the ruling majority, in discussion and in principle, are what we have recognized and thought that we should propose through the amendments, and have said and supported ourselves that we should accept it. Now there's one thing here, and don't ask me for help, then it's gonna be too late, all of what we said, I'm pretty sure that's gonna be proposed someday. Maybe that's what Zorana Mihajlovic will suggest when she needs to beat Alexander Vukic. We don't cheer it, we don't want to, but then she's going to propose one category first, then the second, and the third, it might be ahead of some generals, ahead of some other choices, or in the context of the reckoning in your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60080	The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60081	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, if the government of the Republic of Serbia had not been serious since 2012, it had fundamentally devoted itself to Serbia's economic footing, we would not have had the opportunity today, not to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on dwellings for members of security forces, but we would not have the opportunity to talk at all in this sense about the existence of such an important and important project. Realisation of this project is highly conditioned by economic stability, security, but also by the determination to lead a healthy policy. Healthy policy is not only being conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is being looked at and how public enterprises have been working since 2012. It is really not correct to say that EPS is not acting as a socially responsible company and socially responsible company. The big help in realising this project is that the EPS is operating positively, because it revitalises its capacities in an appropriate way, because it has brought its business into a positive zone, not by raising prices, but by looking for internal reserves. A serious change and in the work EPS has been observed since March 2016, since the EPS led by Mr. Grcic with his team. It is not only important to share apartments with security forces, Serbia today, when we adopt these changes and supplements, shows that it has learned a lot from its history. She showed that she did not want to see what happened to her in her parable, "All these people will be gilded" described by Lazarevic. Serbia with this basic law, and now with these changes and additions, shows that it does not want anyone to feel like the son of Blago Kazanjia, that families of fighters or dead fighters or disabled persons do not feel like Blagoje Kazangjia. We won't have the fighters just in a position or their families to compete for these apartments. The government's responsible policy since 2012, so if you want and responsible EPS policy will allow not only to come to apartments, but also to have good jobs, to think in some future period about whether the job will be given priority to those who come from these families and thus, with all the rise of Serbia's army at an appropriate level, to return that feeling of patriotism and love to our country, not only to ask ourselves what the state has given us, but to tell us what we are prepared to do and to show what we are able to give to the state. The responsible business of the companies in Serbia, the raise of salaries, and also keeping track of the raise of salaries in the EPS shows that someone realized in time that we should not be affected by what is happening to us in health care. You know, someone can be jealous, because I don't know what else to interpret, which in the EPS is the average salary, probably, bigger than the pay of MPs. It's a great pleasure to me. This shows that EPS is capable of hiring new personnel, professional personnel, to retain experienced personnel, to continue to do positive business, not to think about whether anyone will have a system of electricity to maintain their level tomorrow. The struggle that has been fought since 2012 on all fronts, when it comes to stability and security of the Republic of Serbia, is indeed uncompromising in every respect. There are some gaps, somewhere with something and late, but there is no intention of deliberately slowing Serbia's recovery and development. By raising Serbia's economic power, raising morals and a positive relationship with Serbia's Army, by raising its standards, its salaries, its training, the security of its members and family members, it is also achieved by saying today that this is the government, that this is the state that knows how to take care of those who are willing to give their lives for their country. For this reason, the parliamentary group of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party, the United Peasants' Party, will gladly vote for these changes and additions, because this is simply something that gives new impulse and new life to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-07-26-0.u60082	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint a Rules of Procedure on Friday, July 26th, 2019, starting at 6:00 p.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find the bill accepted in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I would like to vote on the amendments of Alexander Seselj to Article 1. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 2. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I put the Verice Radete amendment to Article 2 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 3. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 3. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to Article 3 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreto Periæ to Article 4. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Tomislav Ljubenović to Article 5. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to vote on Ruzica Nikolic's amendment to Article 6. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 8. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 8. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Neđa Jovanovic on Article 8. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic to article 11. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 14. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 17. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of the Citizens' Protector to Article 18. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 18. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to put Verice Radete's amendment to article 18 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of the Citizens' Protector to Article 19. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 20. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 21. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendments to article 22 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to Article 23. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 26. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the Verice Radete amendment to article 27 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 28. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendments of Milorad Mircic to Article 28. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments to the Verice Radete amendment to Article 29. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I would like to vote on the amendments of Sreta Perić to Article 31. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 33. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Ruzica Nikolic to Article 34. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Nikola Savic's article 35 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 36. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Zoran Despotovic to Article 38. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am putting Tomislav Ljubenovic's amendment to article 39 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Nikola Savic's amendment to article 43 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 43 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to Article 46. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the Ruzica Nikolic amendment to Article 47. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I'm putting Alexander Seselj's amendment to article 50 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 53. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on Rose Nikolic's amendment to article 55. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on amendments to the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group on Article 59. I conclude the vote: nine MPs voted for it. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 59. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put Peter Jojic's amendment to article 59 to vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 60. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the Verica Radete amendment to article 63. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Milorad Mircic's vote on article 64. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the Verica Radete amendment to article 65. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 67. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Neđa Jovanovic on Article 67. I conclude the vote: six MPs voted in favour. I put the amendments to Neđa Jovanovic on Article 68. I conclude the vote: 11 MPs voted in favour. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to article 69. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to article 71. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on Rose Nikolic's amendment to Article 72. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Seselj to article 74. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Sreta Periæ's article 76. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to Article 78. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am putting Philip Stojanovic's amendment to article 100. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am putting the amendments of Nedja Jovanovic to article 101. I conclude the vote: eight MPs voted in favour. I am putting Peter Jojic's amendment to article 105. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic to Article 107. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendments to Milorad Mircic's article 110. I'm closing the vote. I would like to vote on Mr. George Komlensky's amendment to article 115. I conclude the vote: nine MPs voted in favour. I am voting on the Verice Radete amendment to article 115. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I am voting on the amendment of Milorad Mircic to Article 115. I'm closing the vote. I'm putting the amendments to the vote, with the correction, of Alexander Seselj on Article 115. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, Srete Periæ on Article 115. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 117 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 117 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 117 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 118 on the vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting amendments to Article 121 to vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 126 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Finalizing vote: for -one. I put the amendments to Article 129 on the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 129 on the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 129 on the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 117 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 133 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 136 to vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 136 to vote. Nej Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – eight. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 138 to vote. George Komlensky. Finalising vote: for – 10. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to Article 138 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 138 to vote. Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary groups. Finalising vote: for – 12. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 138 to vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 138 to vote. Maje Gojkovic. Finalising vote: for – 31. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendment to article 139. Rose Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – one. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 140 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 141 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 143 to vote. Vladimir Orlic. Finalising vote: for – 11. I put the amendments to Article 146 to vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 147 to vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 148 to vote. Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to Article 160 to vote. Nej Jovanovic. Finalising vote: for – 12. I put the amendments to Article 166 to vote. Vladimir Orlic. Finalising vote: for – 15. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 170 to vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. After we've completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 135, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Implementation and Security. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the housing project for members of the security forces, in principle. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 136 against. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendment to Natasha Sp to vote. Jovanovic, to the title of the bill. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. My Colakovic. Finalising vote: for – 12. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for – 11. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. It's Djokic's bell. Finalising vote: for - three. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: in – six. I put amendments to Article 5 to vote Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, Verice Radete on Article 5. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 5. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5, with the correction, Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, with the correction, Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5, with the correction, Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, with the correction, Srete Periæ. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5, with the correction, Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 5, with the correction, Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 5. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I put the amendments to Article 9. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am now putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Finalising vote: for - 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the amendment law and amendments of the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the security forces, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135, against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on specific conditions for the implementation of the apartment building project for members of the Security Forces. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic Presevo (Republic of Serbia) – Tabanovce (Republic of Northern Macedonia), in principle. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135, against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of joint controls at the border crossing for international road traffic Presevo (Republic of Serbia) – Tabanovce (Republic of Northern Macedonia), in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135, against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in general. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the Commissioner's duties on information of public importance and protection of personal data, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 135, against – no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for Public Information and the protection of personal data, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – no one, with abstention – has voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate Milan Marinović on the choice of Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection and to wish him successful work. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on July 24th of this year, at 13 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107, 104 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – two abstentions. I find that those members have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 15th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
