ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55272	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the e-system's parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament: Snezana B. Petrovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We're continuing the search in detail. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the meetings of Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Zoran Kasalovic, Bojan Stevic and Zikica Nestorovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Sasa Mogic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to this new article that you add to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act and it is essential here to elect members of the Council of the Local Community. This member is prescribed that the Council of the Local Community shall elect the Assembly of the City Municipality in whose territory the local community is educated in relation to another form of local self-government, while the position of the 4th member of which I propose that the competent authority of the position of the 3rd member be elected by members of the Council of the Meat Community on a proposal from the Assembly of Citizens to be convened for the area of the local community or other form of self-government. You know very well that all democratic countries and we in Serbia like to boast that we are a democratic country, although a large number of these basic democratic principles are broken, avoided, derrogated, sometimes even said ridicule literally. The same situation is true with this. The position of the SRS is that candidates or members of the local community can be elected exclusively in accordance with the highest democratic principles, which is a secret vote, by establishing a list of candidates, so that people who really live in the area of that local community who are elected by the Council will be able to join the vote, so they must be informed that they will be voted, must be informed when the vote is held, the election commission must be formed. Election commission by interested candidates. So what happens in the presidential elections, in the elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, all these procedures and basic democratic principles must be applied when the Council of the Local Community is elected. What's going on? You know very well that you so-called. choirs of the local community, or choirs of citizens, that they are, in fact, the area for the worst and most serious machinations. If you can't determine in any way who these people are, you can determine if they're really from the territory of that local community when it comes to the choir. When you gather in a meadow or in front of a local community, then you cannot determine in any way, especially their identity, then you are able to call your party activists from different parts of the municipality or the city and in this way you are practically fine-tuning the electoral will of the citizens. Another speciality, and these were still those from the Democratic Party, patented to call the citizens' assembly for a date at 12.00 hours, and then move to nine this morning, and then the assembly and the selection of members of the local community end up with those who in a magical way learn that there will be such a change and who are reportedly on the spot, which no one can testify about, so that they can then welcome a practically completed proposal from the municipality or any other body. According to this solution, it can be proposed twice as much, practically candidate for members of the Council of the Meat Community which also shows that it is the financing of democracy, because what is the vote and what is the decision of the citizens of the local community if later most in the municipality can choose anyone who comes to mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55274	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55275	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, is a very interesting amendment that counterpart Sarovic has submitted. I'd just take a few minutes of your time, I haven't been able to speak to the principle of this law, firstly, as a MP, I support that we have a special law on the capital because most of the European countries have it, and it's nothing controversial. What I think is right and where, in part, Mr. Sarovic is right, we here about a year ago or a year ago had a new Law on Local Self-Government where we predicted that, throughout Serbia, local community council elections must be voted in secret. I am leading the municipality of Topola bordering the township of Mladenovac, and now we will have the opportunity to adopt this law when the local community of the village to another local community has to call the elections and vote directly and secretly for the list and on the other hand we will be able to call these so-called municipalities in the city municipality. choirs where I fully agree that there have been certain abuses in the previous period. If we want to pass a good law, a fair law shouldn't repeat it, Mr. Ruzic. Therefore, I believe that this amendment is good that the Councils of the Local Communities should be elected directly and secretly, and that any citizen who wishes to have a procedure in which he collects a sufficient number of signatures and can run for office, can draw up his list, and there is no problem in which he can present his rights and obligations in his local community in his village. This is very important for us to have here to say, democracy brought down literally to every local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55276	Mr. Sarovic, you want a replica, but allow first according to the amendment of your colleague Orlic, and then we will allow the replica after that. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I'm listening to the explanation given by the amendment promoter, I have to admit, it's not quite clear. What's being proposed here by the amendment as far as I can see, is to delete one of the points of view of the proposal. The position is in particular the fourth position, and that position is stated by the competent authority of Article 3 of this Article to elect members of the Council of the Meat Community on a proposal from the Assembly of Citizens to be convened for the area of the local community or other form of local self-government. So the question of who should choose is defined by this attitude here. Now we need to wipe this out and then stay undefined and who chooses and chooses. I am convinced that this was not the intention of the amendment promoter because he was just talking about his intention to make the selection procedure right, to be precise, to know who was doing what and to avoid certain possible malversions that I do not doubt at all during the period when the yellow company took care of these issues. We don't have to discuss it at all, that's understood. But if we erase this attitude, do we define and how it's chosen differently. Again, why delete this attitude? He says, the competent authority in the third-choice position, and that competent authority is when you look up at the city halls in which the local community is educated. So, the bill laid down a procedure that says, it will be elected at the city hall, not at some meetings of secret or public, not in a delayed period or past a delayed term, someone at the assembly will make a proposal, and whether or not certain people will be elected members of the council, should determine the assembly, according to the draft law that we have received, which I believe is fully in place, correct, therefore. If we wipe this out, it's only then that we get into those problems that the amendment promoter was talking about. I'm sure it wasn't his intention. This simply as an amendment would not be a successful solution, I think we'll understand each other. Why is this an interesting topic? It has to do with various topics concerning citizens' initiatives, citizens' choirs, ways of organising and deciding, among other things, on the territory of the city of Belgrade, directly. You heard for sure about that ingenious idea of a certain Bastac, that famous president of a city municipality, famous only for being hooligan on Sundays, stopping works that are due to advance the city of Belgrade, stopping works that need to be further built, making the city of Belgrade further built, making it better and better and more attractive in every sense. This man has appointed himself a political star leader to be a sworn opponent of traffic signs, but also a fence on construction sites, to harass workers who earn their bread fairly, by working on these sites. This and that Bastac decided to implement, you might think, some referendum, a referendum that he imagined, by a bigger one calling a referendum, completely contrary to any law, any regulation, which has nothing to do with a law that provides for a referendum as a kind of initiative. So everything is completely opposite and incorrect and illogical and meaningless in its essence. Such a man, of course, does not work until he spends other people's time, as a rule more serious than himself, citizens of a municipality whose head, unfortunately, is. Now they're going to be harassed by some commissions they're supposed to be banging on people's doors, which you might think are some kind of accredited commission that he's going to be crediting himself. All in all, a bunch of notorious nonsense that a dog ate with butter wouldn't eat. In doing so, he and such a Bastic want to present that he asks the citizens whether they agree or disagree with something concerning the city of Belgrade, something that, for God's sake, the citizens are not asked. This something specifically refers to the construction sites that Bastic tours with his hooligan team, to the abuse of workers, to projects that are important to the city of Belgrade. He claims Bastac, no one has asked the Belgraders, but now he will ask them at some referendum that only he calls and only he imagines, which is absolutely nothing smart, nor has any formal force. With this Bastic, just like his boss Gilas's manners, where he started in the party, just like he did with Vuk Jeremic and the Fascist Obradovic, who are Bastac's political allies, a lie. So, he doesn't know, obviously, or he's just pretending he doesn't know that citizens and Belgrade are also asked about projects concerning the city of Belgrade and the city center and the very things that are the topic today, the walking zones and gondolas in Calemegdan, and the arrangements of parks and the arrangements of new parking places. For each, but literally each of these projects, citizens of Belgrade are being asked. Do you know when they were asked? In 2018, a new assembly of the Belgrade City Assembly was elected. I, ladies and gentlemen, have checked everything, but literally everything that is relevant on this subject. It was public, not only told to the citizens of Belgrade, but it was also made public. The SNS pre-election programme, or the electoral list we were on then, was publicly published. In the part of the project, part of the programme, which is publicly published on the site of the section “Our projects in the area of infrastructure”. Here, I am now reading to you what today can be found on the Internet, what we citizens have spoken to at every choir, if you will, at any opportunity to address the citizens, at every guest in the local media or wherever you want. So we've talked about this with people and it's literally point one. – Continued expansion of the pedestrian zone in the city centre, on the move from Knez Mihajlova to Brace Jugovic, etc. And the accent on Vas's street, the idea of how to be arranged. It goes on to dots like façades, big market reconstructions, etc. Literally everything today and what Bastic claims to have fallen from the sky yesterday, the citizens heard about it. Not only did they hear, but they've been given an exact explanation. Not only did they understand, but they voted for it, ladies and gentlemen. So, a referendum on these issues, if that's what they want to call it, took place in 2018, was held in the elections. That is what the citizens gave their support for, they said that such a vision of Belgrade understands and wants, accepts as their own. This is what they voted for, they said that by their deep conviction it was right. And this silence, which will eventually come to the attention of whoever won more, Bastac or that young man, the assistant Vuk Jeremic, I keep forgetting his name, or Bosko Obradovic, who, especially from Cačka, travels every time he has to break a fence, to get these two to catch up, it will, Jovanovic is called that kid from Jeremic, and now I remember, so it will be some internal competition that they can organize as many as they want, tours of citizens, to ask them what they think is nicer, smarter or more politically significant. But it will literally be a point in everything regarding their understanding of the people's initiatives, the organisation of citizens in any way. I told you this because he thinks it's important for the citizens of the capital, but not just the capital, it's important. It's important for all of Serbia. These people absolutely don't understand that when something is defined at the level of the law, it's important for the whole country. The city of Belgrade is the capital for all citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A law called the Capital Act is therefore in the interest of all those who belong to this country. It cannot be privatised by one Bastic, it cannot be privatised by one Nikola Jovanovic, nor by anyone who belongs to their impeccable cartel. They don't understand it for one single reason, because they're used to everything, absolutely privatizing everything, that there's no other interest in their personal interests. In that they had, of course, the brightest example possible, this is the brightest I've ever said ironically, Dragan Gilas, their chief of the half-tron. The man, who took care of whatever he did only his own pocket, of his 500 million in the account of his companies, couldn't even teach them anything better than that. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for the citizens of both Belgrade and Serbia, our people are much smarter than those smart guys think. I think this was important to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55278	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55279	Perhaps it was important for you to say that, Mr. Orlic, now that the citizens understood it, and even your party colleagues, that is a big question. The other thing is, you're talking about how deep-seated citizens were to vote for your program and how they were very familiar with it, and then you explain how you yourself, as a functionator of that party, had to look for a program on the Internet, so you could look at what it says to find that there was something written about it. So you yourselves have no idea what's in that programme, nor has anyone voted for Vesic, nor has anyone voted for many other obscenities. You know very well that you owe the most to the president of your party. The second thing, as regards the specific amendment that I was talking about, is I am sorry that you don't understand it and that is the difference between people like you who deal with politics, exclusively, or, for example, Dragan Jovanovic, the president of Topol municipality, who is a man, who, directly, deals with and understands what the problem is and knows what citizens' choirs mean and knows how this has been manipulated and knows that this is not a democratic way of saying it. It is not in line with the highest democratic principles. The vote is, but the citizens' assembly, it's if you want manipulation, then you leave yourself room to do it by calling, allegedly, "citizens' conversations". The third thing, if you don't think it can, that maybe accepting my amendment and erasing attitudes 4 would cause some problem, so neither does it, provides for the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and such situations, then a nice pause is made, and then the Legislative Committee is called up, and then another amendment comes out of that situation. So, here is only, first of all, the question of will and political question – do you want representatives and members of the Council of the local community to choose on the so-called. "Citizens" or you want it to be done democratically, by proposing and a secret vote by people who really live in that local community, or by convoking a group of people, raise their hands, and someone from a crowd yells -- we propose that and you say that, and that's democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55280	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55281	Now it turns out, the amendment promoter asks me to patch up his failures and what he didn't do right. So much for understanding procedure, respecting everything, and what it was, expertise. So, the amendment promoter proposes an amendment that potentially creates a problem, and then tells me - Now you take an Orlic, then you take a natural break, then you make a solution, etc. No, if that was both wise and smart and professional, I have to admit, I'm speechless. I'm not surprised at all, since it's a man of great experience who's headed by many municipalities, many local self-government, I just can't think of any at the moment, so probably based on that great experience, he's making such good solutions and suggesting. It's not my desire to explain to someone that I've got a lot better things to do than patch up other people's potential screw-ups, it wasn't the essence of my previous reporting. The program for which, of course, I bring it here, somehow makes sense to me that I know that it exists. He says the amendment promoter -- the biggest support he's ever given was Alexander Wucci. Well, of course, it is. What else did I say? I've just distracted you, ladies and gentlemen, both you and the people who are watching this, that support has also been given to our election program, and that election program directly provides an answer to all that the coalition partner of the amendment promoter, that hooligan from Old Town is trying to present, of course, by lying, as otherwise, as a question. It's not a question. It's all very clear, and that's what people have answered. At the very end, who got some support, and for what questions, well, that's what we got our answers for. We received the same answers in 2018, in the same elections for the City of Belgrade. I would like to congratulate the amendmentr on this opportunity to receive answers from citizens at a fantastic percentage of, what, 2% in the elections, or 2.5%. So much he understood his program at the time, as ours understands today, he was so convincing and he showed so much knowledge and experience. I think that 2%, 2.5% is the right measure of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55282	Thank you. The right to a replica, first of all, of a colleague, Jovanovic, you used the right right up to five minutes. Your colleague Sarović mentioned you, you have a basis for replication. Here you go, two minutes, then a colleague, Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55283	Mr. Chairman, just a few things that are very important. I asked the question directly, and I would only ask the minister to answer me - why did it go with such a proposal for the capital, and on the other hand we had here a year ago the Law on Local Self-Government for all other cities and municipalities in Serbia is a direct choice for local communities? It is true that I have been at the helm of local self-government for a very long time, and I did not mind the public choirs, just to make it beautifully unbalanced, both for us in Serbia and for the city's local communities, in fact, most of them are rural local communities in the surrounding part of the city of Belgrade. I specifically mentioned the municipality of Mladenec, which is right next door to the municipality where I live and which I am currently running. It was just one question. I don't mind if they call the choirs too, and the choirs get 10% of those on the voter's list and that's because they're valid. So up until a year ago, we chose local communities because it was either a public assembly or a direct election. The municipalities in Serbia had different opportunities, but the new law passed a direct and secret vote. That's why it was my logical question why does someone who lives about a mile away have one way and we have another way? With all due respect, colleagues who have spoken, I think it would be a good idea for this to be unique, both for the city of Valjevo and for the city of Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55284	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Now just a moment, since the system is full, but there is a basis for the replica, of course, and the personal mention of Mr. Sarovic, mentioning the SRS, but before that, we must give the word to Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55285	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, very briefly. So, the Law on Local Self-Government, which the honourable MP Jovanovic mentioned, if I recall, was adopted here on June 20th. It is precisely the law that defines the possibility that the Capital Act should be defined in a different way and resolve the issue of selecting members of the council of local communities, where there is a justification that there are different ways to vote. It is, above all, the special constitutional legal position of the city of Belgrade, and I think this solution that has been offered can simply be and is functional. I understand that border municipalities like Topola and city municipalities have different choices. Also, I remind you that the advice of local communities is not in any way a state body of government, and that is something that is, I guess, clear and visible to all and there is no reason for one different solution, now peopleally welcome the knife, bearing in mind the special constitutional position of the city of Belgrade and all specificities that the city of Belgrade carries with it. Not to mention, we are talking about rural areas here and we have many city municipalities in the city of Belgrade that are rural areas, where the advice of local communities, of course, works, where we have this opportunity to propose a double number of council members, i.e. candidates for members of the council, and that local self-government assembly ultimately gives its final word and chooses these council members. So, there is no financing of democracy, but citizens from the territory of the local community themselves declare themselves candidates, and then the local assembly gives the final word. So, you asked me to answer the questions, I hope I at least answered partially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55286	I thank the ministers. Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55287	First of all, as far as what Orlic was saying, he doesn't understand, obviously, the role of the National Assembly. You know, I don't pay my amendment to the law, but here I'm talking about a bill to amend and supplement some law, and I haven't said for a moment that we're patching up the basic law, but the point here is that these changes that are being introduced are in the interest of citizens, and there's no place here to show some personal vanity, so for that reason you're refusing some amendment, but you need to watch what's best to sort out the lives of citizens and certain local self-governments, specifically here in the city of Belgrade. I asked what are the principled reasons for solving differently, for example in Topoli and in Mladenov? Minister Ruzic did not state a single reason, he said there is a basis in the Law on Local Self-Government to regulate in a different way the choice of local community councils in Belgrade rather than the case in the rest of Serbia. Minister Ruzic said there are certain specificities. I'm now asking Mr. Ruzic to give me precise... Mr. Ruzic, don't talk to your associates. So, to explain to me precisely what is the specificity, for example, the village of Jagnjilo, which belongs to Mladenova, with a neighboring village belonging to the municipality of Topol, so that in the Lamb they will choose the council of the local community and propose to the municipality, and in Topola they will be directly and democratically elected, by voting for certain candidates. So, on a concrete case, let's see what is the specificity of local self-government in Belgrade, because in this way you are merely unnecessarily drawing on the wrath of citizens of all Serbia, because you regulate something different. Although there is absolutely no reason to do so and although the citizens of Belgrade do not want it, nor will it bring them any benefit or benefit, they simply will not. If you have any particular reason, specific specificity, principled reason to point out, go ahead, state and I'll give you a confession if there's something we don't know. If not, give it once not to be a proposal, not to be what is most important or party membership, but to go with common sense and to introduce in Serbia principles that will apply to its citizens, regardless of what part of Serbia they live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55288	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Comrade Orlic, you have a basis for replication, but before you came forward from a colleague of Radeta as deputy head of the parliamentary group to mention the SRS, as far as I understand. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55289	It is really hard to understand some MPs who so have a need, whatever it is they're talking about, to bring up, instead of arguments, let them think, to convince something they read in the paper, etc. We have dealt with the Law on the capital, that is, its changes and additions seriously. In the debate he participated three days ago and the minister himself said that our amendments were meaningful, of course, and that he didn't say that, and the conceptal difference between us is, it's simple. You are the authority that has decided to provide capillaries through local communities and that its people are exclusively elected at these party meetings, assemblies, councils of local communities, to launder municipal money through local communities, to finance election campaigns through local communities, to finance activists who participate in the pre-election campaign, etc. That's what you've been doing so far, except now you're going to legalize it in Belgrade. It's not good and it's not good solutions. It's impossible the way you predicted to choose normal, not normal, but in a normal way the president of the local community council. Of course, he is wrong when he says the city of Belgrade is specific as far as it is concerned, that the constitution looks at him differently than other local self-governments. That's just not true. In the Constitution, the city of Belgrade is local self-government, a unit of local self-government. This is a matter of principle. You've defined yourself for it, and obviously you will, and you will, but we will have this law very soon on new changes and additions. As for the percentage, how many SRS have percentages, we've never handled percentages. We are a patriotic party, state-of-the-art and what our concept is and what we are best shown in the previous two days of debate, and the percentages will be the citizens of both our and yours and theirs and everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55290	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Your colleague Orlic, as I said, has the right to reply, but if you allow Minister Ruzic to respond first. Excuse me, Minister Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55291	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize to Ambassador Orlic if I'm in, but I simply don't want to go out on the political field or enter the polemics. I respect all the arguments you make. Of course there's a single dose of politics that's certainly legitimate in this high house. Certainly, MPs as representatives of the holders of sovereignty will finally declare this bill, and I think this is the best way to resolve this issue, but this is not just a matter of principle. I don't see what the principle is now? This is a reflection of a real state of life, and when we say it's a special constitutional and legal position, we don't even have to call it that. Is the city of Belgrade 17, let's say 16, so Surcin as 17, traditional town halls? He's got them. Is there a city in Serbia, or local self-government? There isn't. Is there a city municipality that isn't in the same rank, for example? in Nis, Palilula or, I don't know, which isn't Mediana, it doesn't even matter, is it in the same status as the Belgrade city municipality, does it have that many per cent of the population compared to the total number of people living in Nis, if we compare, for example, with New Belgrade, which has certainly 200-300,000 inhabitants? There isn't. Well, that's that specificity and that's that difference. This is the difference in the degree of democracy, democratic procedures, democratic values, as these traditional municipalities directly elect committees in the elections. These committees participate in democratic processes, and I remind you that the advice of local communities is not the state authorities and I see no reason why different models of the exercise of democratic rights should not be applied in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55292	Thank you, Minister. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55293	First of all, noting representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, of course, is not at all the subject of patriotism by their parliamentary group, nor by the party. I have absolutely nothing to blame, nor do I think of it at this session or any other session. We didn't talk about it. We talked about the percentages in the election for only one reason. The reason is that their amendment promoter has set the subject in motion. Another reason, believe me, there is no such thing. Neither did I talk about the percentages in the election before that, nor did I plan after that. The moment that it appeared as a topic because it wanted to, and I didn't drag it by language, their amendment promoter, we talked about it too. On the subject of different status, Belgrade said, the minister provided certain explanations, but I must note that this different status, namely the specificity of the solution, is foreseen by the law on local self-government. Here, I'll read you the attitude. It says – rules and procedures for the selection or education of the local community council on the territory of the city of Belgrade: it is determined by a law governing the position of the capital. Now, that's the law. So that's why this issue is in this proposal. The law second says -- this law will define it and regulate it at the level of the city of Belgrade, and that is the answer to the question why. Why just like this, that's another question and I don't think there should be a topic either. There's really a lot of things being said here, that now they're going to make me don't know capillaries, election recruits, etc., but let's take another look at how the proposal reads. The proposal says - decisions will be made at the assembly. At the assembly, ladies and gentlemen, and then it becomes declassified and talk about parties and some recruits and abuses. When the proposal comes to the assembly, it will be familiar with the proposal and the proposal will be decided by all those represented in those congregations, including, wherever the committee group of party representatives has proposed the amendment. Wherever the censorship goes, gentlemen, you will have the opportunity, thanks to this proposal, to have information about all the proposals and to decide, so if you consider that something procedural is not right, to point it out. I think it's more than democratic. Since it is said -- it will cause anger, with all the incomprehension of the difference between local self-government somewhere in central Serbia and self-government where the city is the bearer, and the city's municipalities are not, the anger I haven't met any more people, the Belgrader or to live in another place, to feel angry about being offered democracy, and that's what we do with every proposal that we bring here, and not just this. I think we got along better now than last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55294	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Kola Sarovic wants a replica of Minister Ruzic's presentation, and Rade's colleague on the presentation of his colleague Orlic, so we will have to give first of all to our colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55295	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Once again, it turns out that Mr. Orlic doesn't really understand this subject. I'm sorry, but he doesn't understand, and now it's hard for him to explain and educate him in two minutes, as far as I'm concerned. So whatever you ask him, he, as our people would say, spins the same story as the Kraut, La, La. My question was of principled nature and I sought a principled difference and a reason why the same things are defined and prescribed for central Serbia and the city of Belgrade. Therefore, the answer cannot be – because the SNS MP is more in the National Assembly. That has absolutely nothing to do with it. This has nothing to do with this power either. This is a law that needs to be applied even when it's another government. Not every government can make a law for itself. It is one of the biggest problems, which is the worst, and Mr. Ruzic's explanation was the same. I asked you, Mr Ruzic, to release the municipality of Novi Belgrade on a specific case, you know very well that in the central Belgrade municipalities, the councils of the local community do not matter what they have in rural areas and what they have in suburban municipalities. There citizens experience in an incomparably different way and experience far more seriously who will be on the advice of the local community and the advice of the local community is more important. I asked you to explain to me the principleal difference why it is necessary, for example, in Jagnjil, which is the village belonging to the municipality of Mladenovac, the suburban municipality, and based on the municipality of Topol, why should the selection of members of the council of the local community, therefore, be regulated differently in Jagnjil compared to Topol? And just answer me that. I know there's more of you in the National Assembly, I guess that's what you've figured out for the last three years. That's why you're the majority and we're the opposition. And there's no need for that to be your answer to everything. Please give a principled answer, such as a principled and concrete question.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55296	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Right on the line, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55297	It's interesting to think about fellow Orlic, and now I've actually realized why he doesn't understand what principled attitude means, principled amendment, principled response, reasoned response, etc. His argument, reads in the law on local self-government, that the status of local communities, or as he read it correctly, will be regulated in the city of Belgrade by another law. Well, who questioned that? You know, if it says that it will be regulated by a special law, then you could, if you used that logic, then you could write – in this law the advice of local communities in the city municipality of Zemun will elect citizens of the City Municipality of Zvezda. And you say, and we have a basis, according to this law, that a special law will be passed. No one disputes the existence of the law on the capital, no one argues that the law will also develop that member of the Constitution, so members of the Law on Local Self-Government concerning this, but we dispute the way in which local community councils are elected in Belgrade. We didn't get an answer as to why it's different than in other local self-governments. We actually know the answer and we've repeated it several times. Yes, this will be exclusively a party-meat community, a party that has authority in a certain municipality. Now it's important for you to be the parties that are now in power, because this is very important for the next city elections, and what happens after that, we'll see. He says if we cross the census wherever we go, we'll be right and we'll be able to get information, find out something, etc. Indeed, we do not expect him to give us any right or opportunity. We fought for that birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55298	Thank you, colleague Radeta. A fellow Eagle, of course, you have the right to a replica, but only one request. I do not dispute that we have had a constructive and professional debate and that it is an important topic, but if possible, this time without a personal address, to move on to the next amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55299	You know, Mr. Chairman, that I always go out to meet such suggestions. Although I understand the wish and effort of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group to protect a young colleague, my quote of the law was a direct answer to his question – why something was now specifically done for the city of Belgrade. The answer was – because it provides for the law. I didn't add anything else. So, the law stipulates that the law on the capital, this law that we represent, should be regulated. I think it's a perfectly clear and correct answer. That something would be a party, it was a note from an authorised representative. I don't really agree with that. The party to the extent to which a congregation, any assembly, is asked about it, here, we are now specifically talking about town halls, and I think that is, above all, democratic decision-making and democratic response. The party would be how? A party's decision is made and then it becomes executive. It's not like that. So, literally, the situation in relation to anything else that is decided by some congregations. And that's where my well-intentioned note went. And those who resent this solution today will have the opportunity, wherever they are represented in the local congregation, to decide, to have the opportunity to get acquainted with the proposals, to have the opportunity to indicate, if they think something is wrong. That's all, ladies and gentlemen, democratic. To those personal notes sent to me, of course, that I answer I have no intention. I just said, many of these notes justify why they end up with about two percent in the election, because I don't want to speak personally, I promised you Mr. Chairman. I wanted to ask you, I'm proposing an amendment just to convey my desire for that knowledge and that expertise that he showed to use to educate that Bastac as well. I am sure Bastac will help him end up on such good percentages, and I think it will benefit both the Old City and Belgrade, as well as the whole of Serbia. Thank you. (Miss Radeta: I'm reporting for word.) =
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55300	A colleague of Radeta's... (Verica Radeta: I am the deputy head of the parliamentary group.) I know, of course. You weren't mentioned for a moment. The party wasn't mentioned for a moment. You know I'm... I have to. ) Here you are if you consider the party mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55301	I am sorry, Mr. Milicevic, that the MPs do not accept your suggestions. You asked me not to mention it personally, he mentioned it and that beginning of a little earlier address was such that I could react automatically to the Rules of Procedure because it was very offensive. How does he say that I have the need to help a young colleague, Nemanja Sarovic? In what? So Nemanja Sarovic ran him over in every debate I don't know how many times. Nemanja Sarovic is a man with experience, who has been a national MP for many years, a graduate lawyer, never questioned his diploma, nor had he a legal basis, nor a general basis for such a thing. I'm sorry, colleague Milicevic, but we cannot remain in debt. It's just how we work, we're the SRS, and if someone's not ready for it, let them keep an eye on how he talks to us. Everything was normal until his remarks at the beginning of his debate, so he'd be nice to you, so we don't notice what he said. I'm sorry he doesn't really understand anything. Where it says so, he's commenting again, according to the Law on Local Self-Government that something about the law in the capital will be regulated in a special way. Where does it say that it will be regulated so that local community councils will be elected to the citizens' choir? Where does it say, except here in what we put as a remark? He also says that it will be a party, etc., and he suggests to us wherever we take part in a local assembly in Belgrade, that we will be able to propose our candidates, or choose. Did he confirm with this what we claim? The beginning is the citizens' assembly, and the citizens' assembly is that you will abuse it, it will be your party meetings. Not yours, Mr. Milicevic, and they'll play you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55302	I'd like to thank my colleague, Radet. Comrade Eagle, please, you have a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55303	Okay, as you've done so far, take care of what I said, what else, and then judge by whether there's a basis for further action. In fact, very short. Who's what and what I understand, I think it's clear to anyone who's been watching for the third time that we're quoting something here and showing it where it says, I don't think it makes any sense. Anyone who doesn't want to understand doesn't have to. I don't have to force anyone to understand something they don't want, but a very important note, it's about that trampling in the debate. I wanted to ask you kindly once again, Mr. Chairman, to convey my requests and sincere hopes that this level of trampling in the debate and me or anyone from the SRS will be kind enough to share and teach Bastac in that direction. It would only suit us if Bastac also beats and beats us in the debates, because it will certainly end with Bastac winning by those percentages or two. I think it is only in the good interest of the citizens of the Old Town and of Belgrade, as well as citizens of the whole of Serbia. The more fates like that for Bastace and Gilas, the better for everyone in that direction, I mean, a very constructive proposal on my part, so take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55304	Thank you. We have registered MPs by amendment. Comrade Miletic, you have no time left for the parliamentary group and no opportunity to speak, unfortunately, but counterpart Miladin Ševarlic has. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55305	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Minister Ruzic to answer me - whether in the final version of the bill for voting will remain that proposal on the local ombudsman or, in accordance with Article 138 and Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, call it the Protector of Citizens? That's what I need to know, to know how to define myself for the vote, not to participate in polluting Serbian with the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55306	Thank you, Professor Chevarlich. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55307	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to article 17 with a proposal identical to that proposed by my fellow Members. I think it's the only correct solution to find and put into this law. Ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be taken into account when it comes to local self-government, the role and tasks of the local community, in any case, are of great importance. There's an example on Takovska No. 56, where a tycoon began building a residential building, so five, six months ago, a crane fell that destroyed both sewers and water, leaving dozens of citizens without water and no heating in the middle of winter. Who allowed this tycoon to build and close a sidewalk on a bus station where citizens, tens of thousands of citizens pass by and now citizens have to go asphalt, where do vehicles go on that lane across the hall of Palilu? With that in mind, I'm asking a question of inspection - what are inspection services doing? At the inspection center, they don't do their job well. How is it possible that in a period of four-and-a-half months, 17 workers are killed in private workers working on construction and construction of buildings and other infrastructure facilities, in fact in one way that does not allow citizens to live normally? The inspection services and inspection services are not doing well. When it comes to local self-government, if you'll excuse me, I'd just remind myself, the public works, both for meeting colleagues and for meeting you, Mr. Minister, how is it possible that embezzlement at a pub in a punk pharmacy of billions and 30 million dinars, without anyone answering and no one being in jail? And how is it possible that Panchevo has 700 doctors and pharmacists and is brought from Cačka and Užica director of pharmacy, who has done damage and embezzlement, as I have pointed out, a billion and 30 million, and the thieves are not in jail?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55308	Thank you, colleague Jojic. Comrade Markovic, you want to follow the amendment, but allow only before you Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55309	Thank you. Given that Professor Ševarlic really did, and in principle, point out something that, in my opinion, I think that Mr. MP Martinovic explained quite clearly, but let us not remain in debt. So when you talk about the Constitution or when we talk about the Constitution, the Constitution is talking about the State Authority Protector of Citizens. It was the citizens' protection initiative that introduced the term local ombudsman, which was otherwise internationally recognised and universally accepted. What is also the reason, not only for the termological distinction, is that there is no confusion, but also because there is no hierarchical relationship between the state authority and the local ombudsman. Also, the Association of Local Ombudsmans operating at the level of the unit of local self-government required that they be subject to this universal international term or title. The fourth thing, this is just a alignment with the Law on Local Self-Government, which introduces this term. So, hopefully this is enough explanation and, yes, we'll stay on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55310	Thank you, Minister. Professor Chevarlic, the only basis I can give you is the replica, because the minister mentioned you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55311	I really can't accept an explanation in principle if one mistake has been made, whether we should make a series of mistakes, or if we should correct that first mistake. So if the Constitution is the highest legal act in this country, and we know how far around it, here's an example, how could you let that institution be called different? If you say there would be a difference between Belgrade's termological, local ombudsman and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then how different all other local ombudsmen are when they do not have Sufiks Cačak, Milanovac, etc. from Belgrade? I think your explanation is inadequate. Don't make excuses for something that's indefensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55312	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55313	Thank you. I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that you've given an explanation that it's a compliance with another law, and that's the Law on Local Self-Government. I am pleased that, in this debate so far, we have actually removed any ambiguity regarding how members of the council of the local communities should be elected, as well as democratic procedures with regard to this matter. Although a recent discussion is not a grudge, but just to say, the recent discussion concerns the next amendment, not the amendment that we are discussing. I must make a note to the previous speaker that Cacak is not a suffix, while we are already talking about the purity of the Serbian language he insists on. We have also heard the explanation that the council of the local community is not a state body, and that is true, so it is not a state body, but it does not diminish the importance of the existence of advice from the local community. With this in mind, I would once again support the legal solution provided for, when it comes to how to choose the council of local communities, which is that at the citizens' assembly, in fact, the citizens' assembly will propose members of the council of local communities, which will be elected by the municipal community in which the local community is educated. I think this solution is acceptable, given the specificities that the minister was talking about when it comes to the capital. So we can't observe the Law of Local Self-Government as well as the Capital Act. It's about other categories. As we cannot observe, with all due respect to fellow Jovanovic, who discussed, the position of a settlement belonging to, say, the municipality of Topol and someone mentioned the village of Jagnjilo in Mladenov. We cannot observe the same, because the village of Jagnjilo belongs to the town municipality of Mladenovac, and this second village belongs to the municipality of Topola in this case. So it's not the same category, it doesn't regulate the same bill. Here's the Law on Local Self-Government, here's a bill on the capital. So, different powers are different. As we said, the city municipality or suburban municipality is not a unit of local self-government and thus cannot be treated as another municipality in Serbia. I hope that in this way, just because of the citizens, we have made it clear and in any case full support I am giving the legal solution provided for by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55314	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MP Ruzica Nikolic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55315	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have asked for an amendment to delete Article 18, which, I quote, is said – after article 51, the title of GlavaVII is changed and read – the local Ombudsman, because it is not in line with Article 138. We also heard some interpretations in principle today from you ministers. In an explanation that you have just stated why this amendment is not accepted, you say that the local Ombudsman is independent and self-monitoring respect for the rights of citizens, while the Protector is an independent state body on a republican level that protects citizens' rights and you say that it is a compliance with Article 97. The law on local self-government. When it comes to the protection of citizens at the local level, chosen by the Belgrade City Assembly on a proposal of more than one third of the councils, its affairs are the protection of individual and collective rights and the interests of citizens, then the control of the City Administration of Belgrade, the submission of initiatives to amend, supplement or adopt new laws and other regulations and general acts if it considers that infringements of citizens' rights are due to lack of regulation, giving an opinion on the draft rules and general acts of the city when they determine issues of importance for the protection and promotion of the rights and interests of citizens, as well as the submission of initiatives for the initiation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of laws and other regulations. So, as we can see, the Guardian of Citizens, both locally and at a republican level, is someone who needs to protect rights and freedoms, when these rights and freedoms are threatened, and we invite you to accept this amendment that is in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55316	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. Mr. Ruzic, you wanted to respond to my colleague Nikolic's amendment, as far as I understand? I'm sorry, I didn't notice. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55317	I'm sorry, Chairman, I signaled later, just to figure out what this is about. You are right to protect the rights and if those rights are violated, but it is important to which regulations, whether or not local, are local ombudsmen, or to apply those regulations, or to republican ones, that is the work of the state authority, and that is the difference. Then you can see why there's what I said before. I see no reason why what is the Association of Local Ombudsmans, what is the Protector of Citizens, what we have included in the law last time is now changing, in this internationally accepted term.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55318	Thank you, Minister Rose. Miladin Shevarlic throws. A fellow Chevarlitch, just a little quieter, if you please. Miladin Shevarlic throws. Comrade Chevarlich, please. The amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55319	We're listening to this argument given by the minister. It is one term, termologically, whether we will accept that name that came from Sweden, which, as the minister explains or wants to explain, is generally accepted in the Serbian people, is easily spoken by an ordinary Serb, pronounces it with ease by saying the Ombudsman daily or will be the Protector of the Citizens. You can't be more tolerant even when it comes to a case like this. Terminologically. The terms that are acceptable to ordinary citizens are used. Imagine how many in Serbia can pronounce this term without error. Don't explain it like that. You don't explain it. This term only exists in the capital Belgrade and AP Vojvodina, and at the level of the Serbian state, the Citizens' Protector. The bottom line is the next one. The point of the objection to this law is that you're playing with one thing that's very dangerous. You here, Minister, are proposing a law that treats the transfer funds at the level of the city of Belgrade. It's very, very dangerous for many reasons. First, because the IMF has repeatedly underlined to you that it must deal with these transfer funds when it comes to the transfer of funds from the Republic to the local level. Secondly, the city of Belgrade, in itself, of the total transfer funds at the level of the Republic of Serbia, 50% belongs to the city of Belgrade. It's 1.7% of the budget. The city of Belgrade is 50%. What is very important, when we bring it down to the level of the city of Belgrade, transfer funds are something that can be manipulated, that is, to make political calculations. How? So that from the level of the city, they can be directed at a larger amount to those municipalities that are, apparently, at the will of the ruling majority, and those municipalities that are not, I say as an example, would be a deficit for them. If the municipality is a deficit, which is what one of the advances told the Old Town municipality that it remained in debt for the costs of the sports centre, so they themselves are forced by nature to raise loans to banks, banks are in debt and thus create a general problem facing the state of Serbia. It's something to think about. This way of thinking about the decentralisation of Belgrade's capital was still going on in the days of Nebojsa Covic, because some of the city's municipalities at the time, as units of local self-government, had more independence, and it did not fit his party at the time, and above all, I don't think it was appropriate for him not to be an unsuspecting master of the whole of Belgrade, and then it began to disenfranchise city municipalities, bringing them to the level of local communities, if you are looking at the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55320	Thank you, colleague Mircic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55321	Thank you very much. Since the last remarks were, as it were said, on the soul of the complete bill proposal, with different notes, about the municipalities, as far as I think, if I am not mistaken, the money they receive and related to the opinion of international institutions. I think it's important to mention a few more things. First, as regards the money provided for the municipalities and the mentioned Old Town municipality. Even at the moment when it was planned and when the decision was made how much funding that municipality would receive for this year 2019, I remember well, there were terrible mourning women by their municipal leadership, and the motherhood of the city, and they harass us, and they abuse us, they don't give us money. Why? Because we're not from the same party. It is important to know that the Old Town municipality was given more money by the decision it had made by the Belgrade City Assembly. Watch out, more money for 2019 than 2018. So can Bastac and whoever wants to jump like hell and talk nonsense about how they're being bullied, abused, and so on and so on. They, and that when you look at what numbers look like, got more money, among other things, because they all got more money. It has nothing to do with where anyone is in power. The fact is that our cash register is in a much better shape. And when he talks about the IMF, an interesting note, I have to admit, we talk about him a lot more often. Those who mentioned it today use it as a reminder that we do not need to deal with the opinion of international institutions or the IMF, that they do not want us well, etc., so it would be interesting to hear that they are now calling on it. I don't mind, I still think, as we all say here in our parliamentary group, that we should have in mind and their opinion, because it's important for a number of reasons. For example, the IMF says -- Serbia's economic growth is strong, public debt declines, inflation is low and stable, and many key reforms have been implemented, IMF mission representatives assessed at the end of an official visit to Serbia. So this has been published to you in one of these constant and chronic Gilas, Jeremic, this Bastac and other loving Sundays. So this has been published by someone who doesn't want to take sides with us, but thinks about us all the worst and by the rule he publishes and writes all the worst. If they say this, I have no doubt that this is true, therefore, they acknowledge that the IMF has estimated that our growth is strong, that the public debt is falling, that inflation is low and that crucial reforms have been implemented. What else do they confess to themselves? It says – the macroeconomic situation remains stable and there has been an acceleration of economic growth in 2018 to 4.3%, which is the highest rate in the last 10 years. Consultations on the second revision of the policy coordination instrument and representatives of the IMF Mission have been completed at the end of the visit, launched on 10 May, available fiscal space should be used for capital consumption with the application of selection procedures and evaluations to support maximum stable growth. (President: I thank you. ) The last sentence. So it's very good that you stated that we should take care of the IMF's opinion. The International Monetary Fund says that in Serbia today it is so much better than in the days of this Gilas, that Jeremic and this Bastac, that they can finance smart things, useful things, and among other things, to provide more money for the city's municipalities. In their day, it was unimaginable. Do you know who there's always been more money for? For them and their companies. This is the fundamental difference that we see today in everything we do, including this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55322	I thank my colleague Orlic. Right on line, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55323	Mr. Orlic, don't be angry. When I listen, it's like I'm watching TV. It starts and ends the same way. The point here is that the Belgrade city-level infrastructure belongs to the city of Belgrade. Whether in the part of Old Town, New Belgrade, Mladenova or any municipality within the city of Belgrade, it is now much less important. Whether it was Bastic or Sapic or anyone who is not in your party, problems remain for the city of Belgrade. That's what this is about. As for the IMF, that he was right when he warned about transfer funds, your best example, Mr. Orlic, is the town of Kragujevac. There it is from the level of the Republic, here is the Minister of Local Self-Government, in the town of Kragujevac, over the past short period transferred billions, which have been spent. No one knows where or how. On the other hand, you have city municipalities that are not, units of local self-government, at the level of the city of Belgrade, which literally are nudged in poverty and are in debt with commercial banks and are a real problem for both the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia, and here what is the criterion? Because the son of someone out there was digging two meters and a foot and a half down. His son is the president of the city. It can't be a criterion. These are manipulations when it comes to transfer funds and it is not the point here whether the SRS accepts or does not accept the IMF. You've got it all wrong. As far as we're concerned, God forbid we've never been to Serbia again, the IMF and other frauds who blackmail Serbia. This is about the principle that you inherited and accepted that the IMF determines what and how to do. That's it. What the IMF said, it's good for Serbia in any case, and nobody disputes it, but try to be constructive, to be creative, to see what reality is at the level of municipalities in the Belgrade community. Kragujevac is by the number of inhabitants by all parameters, Mr. Orlic, far below the municipality of Stari Grad, the municipality of New Belgrade and many municipalities, and the municipality of Zemun, not to forget, but the unloved spends money and so it will all be until some criteria are known neither to us nor to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55324	I thank my colleague Mircic. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55325	Well, just because I start and end up the same way when I answer some notes, that means only one thing – that these notes that I always answer to are the same. Is that why the answers are the same? There's nothing deeper to look for than the one who said it. That he calls for the IMF's opinion, but he doesn't admit it, and he wants it all to be the worst, and I can't dissipate it. I'll just point out that that opinion is important. If I have to repeat and what is important – because these assessments I read earlier, and really excellent assessments, reviews that we can be proud of as a country, follow and some investors who think whether they want to invest in Serbia or not, somewhere in Serbia, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, in any fifth place, choose themselves, it is not important, they first look at these assessments and when they see that an institution like the IMF says they are stable, that growth is high, that among the 10 highest on the continent level in the previous year, that structural reforms are implemented with success, that the state is serious and arranged, they can only say – yes, this is the right place and we will come here. Our interest is also in Belgrade, and in Kragujevac, and in Novi Sad, Nis, wherever you want, it is our interest that such cases be as much as possible, that such companies be more, that we provide more jobs, because then we recharge the register and close the circle, that we allow more space for both municipalities and cities and for infrastructure, which we talked about at Belgrade level, here the other day. One hundred and thirty thousand Borca residents will now receive sewage infrastructure for the first time. Where and why? It's precisely because someone takes serious care of both the city and the Republic, precisely because we attract these investments, which is better for us and for us to have where to deal with these things. What do the international institutions think? Look at the World Bank, look at the Duing Business List, where we have made progress and related to the city of Belgrade, as far as it was, is there a million squares a year to approve in the construction sector, annually and for a year in a row and how many times more than to sum up all these Gilasovs, Bastac's year and the others we talked about today. That's good stuff. I don't need to be mad because the results are good because the results are someone else's. These are the results that belong to all the citizens of this city and this country. These are the results that remain permanent. The parties can change. They can change most of them, but no one's taking the road or the highway or the factory to their office or their party tomorrow. It will remain for the citizens and Belgrade and any other city, for the citizens of Serbia, and for that we should all be proud and in these things to participate with a full heart. I think we understood each other right again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55326	Obviously we didn't understand each other. My colleague Mircic, the basis for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55327	I asked Minister Ruzic to explain how it will take and how long it will take to play with transfer funds, but I can see that here the minister does not feel the need to talk about it, but perhaps this solution is a brilliant solution. Remember, as noted repeatedly here, the government is transitory. All the problems remain in the city of Belgrade. The citizens of Belgrade are not interested in whether it is in this or that town municipality. Those problems stay. If he is at risk, an example of just cited, a sports centre due to the inability to pay maintenance costs in the territory of the Old City municipality of Belgrade, then that is the problem with Belgrade that remains. Whether Bastic will be or not, the citizens will decide. The problem is increasing because he will be forced to take credit with the commercial bank because he can do so. That's what this is about. You can't control that. This has to be settled legally. To say what are the clear criteria to which the transfer funds or the allocation of transfer funds will be forwarded. I gave you the right example, and here's to fill you in on the state of local self-government. You have not a small number of municipalities at Serbia's debt level, they have to raise loans. And on the other hand, you have mayors, presidents of municipalities who boast that for many years they have surpluses in the budget. Well, how bad is what's the deficit, what's due, so bad and this surplus? That means they're not capable, they don't have projects, they don't spend that money, but they put their heads on their shoulders, they took a ID card in their back pocket and went to brag and said I have a surplus. As bad as the deficit and overindulgence of the town of Kragujevac is, it's as bad as what they have surpluses. And you instead of reacting, to tell the Ministry whether local self-government, whether an audit inspection or the Ministry of Finance is responding to a surplus, you let it go like that. Like this... (President: I thank my colleague. )......................................................................................................... Just enough for Markovic to at least learn something about the functioning of local self-government. I'm sorry for being personal, but I like you, I like you privately, so this is what I'm doing with this time at no cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55328	Thank you. Please, just without direct address, no matter how much you like your colleague Markovic. I respect that. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55329	This was completely unnecessary in the end. Probably the first thing that happened with no charge, and it comes from that side. As for the transfer funds and the budget reserves, you don't need to mix them. Therefore, the transfer funds have been established by law. A budget reserve, and it's usually more used where it was needed, and it's more necessary because it was more horrible, devastated by the former regime, that's another thing. Both at the level of the city of Belgrade and if you want any place in Serbia. Where the disaster was bigger, where the damage was done bigger, there it was meant to help more. There was supposed to be more help and what there was to be no one who didn't understand. At the level of the city of Belgrade, I already told you. Everyone's got more. The ones where it was more necessary, they got more than the ones who had already stood up better. But if there were problems everywhere, it was. One thing's true, and I'll agree to that. That a big problem can be made, if irresponsible people are found in certain places, we saw it at the level of the city of Belgrade at the time of Dragan Gilas and we talked about it many times. Those debts you are talking about now, a billion and two hundred million euros amounted to. And we managed to cut them in half because we worked hard, worked hard, and made a serious result, and you mentioned today and some names. Those people you mentioned, we put them on the list. These people got the votes of the citizens. Of course, most of the names of Alexander Vukic, that's quite clear. But for the record, every project we've implemented has now been put before citizens' eyes and these projects have been declared. And for the people who carry these projects today. And if it can be fixed, it can be done. It's okay. It's okay. So, also at the level of this Old Town where I think you still participate in power, just as it is corrected and will be corrected at the level of Belgrade where you also participated in power, in those famous boards of directors and supervisors. And fortunately, Serbia today is concerned about these things by people who can make a difference, and we don't have to agree now or disagree. Did you hear what the IMF said, did you hear what the World Bank said? Have you seen how investors who come to this country understand that? I think you look at the way the world sees and interprets both Belgrade and Serbia today. Serbia whose head is, yes, Alexander Vukic. You'll be perfectly clear. Who's which class and who's which category, so now whether someone wants to end up wanting to or not wanting to charge something or not, let's keep it private for each of us. It is important that the pests are not in a position to charge anything, if they themselves want it independent of the law and the will of the citizens. Today it is impossible in Serbia. Today Serbia is a completely different country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55330	I thank my colleague Orlic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55331	I thank the chairman. The MP pointed out the elements of some irregularities that apparently exist and that is not at all questionable. That's not what I've been saying for years. It's decades, but it's certainly from the Department of Finance's work. What you are proposing is a practical initiative to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of local self-government and the Law on the Budgetary System. And right on the trail of what you were saying, I can let you know that the Ministry of Finance is otherwise working on that reform. The task force's been working for over six months now, and I've been thinking about bringing these irregularities into order. So I can answer that, but it certainly is not relevant in the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55332	Thank you. Comrade Mircic, would you like a replica of the Minister's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55333	And here we are finally close to answers and solutions, hopefully, if it is legally defined, it will speed up the laws to come to the Assembly. That's the point. The Government of the Republic must, either through resolution ministries or in any other way, take care of how the funds are spent. The City of Belgrade must make sure the funds are spent and the property of the City of Belgrade, so no matter what part of the town's municipality the property was in. That's the point. And you're tied here to a man who's currently active. You know what, there's one rule -- everything's fleeting, and it's also the post of president of city halls or mayors. You can see that the time has come to discuss those former leaders of Belgrade. They had even greater praises from the IMF and the World Bank than you do, but the essence of what huge funds lie on the accounts of certain local self-governments, which on the other hand is uncontrollably spent not small funds in certain local self-governments, and there is no effect on that. Perhaps these funds are more needed or more effective will be to give in or transfer as you say, to some other municipalities. People who have projects, who have ideas, and that's the point. Not that we're into political marketing. Political marketing has been present in Serbia for many years. Enough for the people of political marketing, especially those living in Belgrade. There's a lot of investment in Belgrade, you know that. That subway should finally be finished. Many projects need to be completed, not dealing with some marketing phenomena that are transient or short-lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55334	Comrade Orlic, do you want a replica of the Minister's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55335	It will primarily focus on these last notes. Okay, there's been some obvious fatigue. Since 1993 and then the post of President of the City Assembly has changed a lot. A lot has changed both the way these congregations function and the relations between international institutions, and when it is said now by the former, I don't know if it was meant in 1993 or after which it was co-operated at the Belgrade city level or which it was co-operated with at some other level. I can't send it out now, but I notice there was tiredness and I don't mind it at all. What does it matter not to forget? The International Monetary Fund has never given better marks to those representing the former regime at the level of republic or city. On the contrary, the IMF warned these people to spend uncontrollably and not create, and the IMF, you can find that in official documents, told them if they continue like this, everything will collapse like a map tower. They're going to tear the earth apart, they're going to bring it to ruin, and then they're going to throw it all the way over that edge. You know what happened? They didn't listen to the IMF, they ignored it. They thought they were smarter, more professional, that the IMF had no idea. To finally get kicked out in 2011. People got together and said, "We have nothing left to look for here, and then at the level of the Republic, they opened the door for them and said, "well, we don't need anything, we know better." What happened and who was right. It proved very quickly that Serbia was brought to the brink of bankruptcy. It is now acknowledged by those great geniuses who say – today the IMF also has no idea, as it is not. Is that right? And how did Serbia end up exactly in the danger that the IMF warned of? There's no answer to that. Instead, today and from that Gilas, Bastac and others, which are also a good note, are transient. Today we listen, again the IMF knows nothing, the World Bank knows nothing, no one in this world is expert, they have no idea even, say ambassadors why they came to the National Assembly's home at, imagine, a session dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija. The only smart people in this world are this Gilas, this Bastic, that Wolf Jeremic and these fascists from Dvora. But we know for what, smart and capable just for your pocket and nothing else. We, on the other hand, think that we need to listen to what other people say, that other people should take care of how other people see opportunities in Serbia, because it also provides us with new jobs and more bread on the table and bigger salaries and bigger pensions and all the other things you know to mention often, which are today in Serbia reality. Today it is not only possible, today it is happening in Serbia, and it is our goal, and you will see, the goal that is achieved as well as everything else that we have talked about, that it is only growing in time, that it stands only better over time, because we just think – we are not the smartest in the world. But maybe we love our country most in the world and we want to fight for it. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55336	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Dear Mircic, I will allow you, of course, to speak, but please, the debate you are having is important, I do not dispute the importance and importance of the debate and the dialogue that you are conducting, but it is not the topic or the IMF, nor the World Bank, I ask you to return to this Article 19, regarding the particular local Ombudsman. Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55337	All these discussions are aimed at improving the law, the proposed law on Belgrade's capital. I don't see anything wrong with that. Although we sometimes address each other personally, it is not out of any intention to make it impossible to apply a better law or to correct these provisions of the law. I think that kind of discussion is also creative. The fact that some colleagues are trying to put us long ago in politics into someone who's tired, just to tell you, people's wisdom is telling you -- it's not our age, it's not our internship, it's not your advantage. So, that's one folk you should always keep in mind. What a man does, it should be valued, and how old he is and how old he is and how old he is, it is not up to us, a young colleague, that depends on something that is beyond our power. Like you can't choose the place of birth or you can't choose your parents and a lot of things, and so does this. That's the thing about when you were born and when you started working. As for some political past, don't talk about it. That's what people who are more qualified than you and me, but this is about very important things, this is about huge resources. Only one correction, Mladjan Dinkic, as finance minister, carried out a warning, namely the IMF's decision to reduce the transfer funds. This is about the fact that the more rational these funds that are in Serbia's budget, as well as the budget of the city of Belgrade, are being spent more rationally, and not that we are burning on who's good, who's not, who's doing it one way or the other. Let it go, it will be time, history, and those who do this work clearly show it. As for the well-meaning or roles of the IMF and the World Bank, volumes of books have been published. It would be good, Mr. Orlic, if you read the SRS programme again, it would be much clearer to you when it comes to these international financial institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55338	Comrade Eagle, you have a basis for replica, but I just don't think you understand me, Mr. Mircic. I didn't mean anything by the debate itself, I just insisted that we go back to the discussion in detail. Nothing bad. On the contrary, I believe this debate can contribute to a better quality legal solution. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55339	It will now turn out that all the answers are in the party program. It's just, what party program should I read exactly, the one that was based on liberal capitalism or on what it was like, thatcherism, or, I think, some new announcement, something like that? You need to see very precisely what you're thinking, so I don't have to read things that aren't current. My only note was that it seems that some things are not current. It's not that when someone was born, I noticed about myself a change in hair color, a change in hair color only in this concise, but another thing is, what's more current and much more important, what's the truth that needs to be remembered? I spoke nicely, the truth that needs to be remembered is what the IMF thought about the opportunities in Serbia 2009, 2010, 2011, and what it thinks today. That's the important thing. Why is that today? Well, you know what, people's relationship is different. Today when you have people at Serbia's level who take care of everyone and everyone, because they care about people and because every citizen is important to them, that difference is seen. It is known that Dragan Gilas once held the money belonging to the city of Belgrade. I'm not thinking about those boards of directors he's been sharing with your party. I'm talking about other things right now. About how he treated certain municipalities. Look today, anyone can only get more than he had before. It's completely pointless and groundless for you today to answer to some Bastaceans and others who are in a coalition at the Old Town level, to be abused, to be treated badly. Because, you know, they get more. Just like Paracino did when he spoke, so he asked, the ministry approved him to hire additional people. Just like Shabac, when he has a job problem, and he has, he gets support for a foreign investor. And they can lie to Paracino and those in Capco, just like those of you in Old Town that someone doesn't like them. All citizens are getting help because people are important to us. And that, who managed to form most of it, if there's one level of the congregation, any kind of, freed his hands and a wide field, let him work, but let that work show that he deserves the trust he won or didn't get. Whoever doesn't deserve it from citizens has nothing to say to us. This applies to both Novi Sad and Old Town and Belgrade. In 1993, it was valid, just as it was in 2009 or 2019, in Serbia. You know, citizens, I think they've always been the best judge ever. Those two, two and a half percent we mentioned this morning, and that has something to do with the subject you know how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55340	I thank my colleague Orlic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55341	Thank you, Chairman. Here, and today in the debate in particular, Vladimir Orlic, our colleague, reminded us of the liquids of the Democratic Party, and you will hear why I think it is important to rely on that part of the debate. You remember when I was talking about Judge Majic and how the media machine started to make him a victim and us to party listeners who attack him, who want to silence him, who practically wants to lynch him. Of course, that was true, but one step further. When MPs of the assembly majority talk about things that annoy these in the tent, sitting in the park, which is mostly the truth about their politics, because that's not politics, that's politics, that's the truth about their behavior that's obvious, then we find ourselves in "The Imprint of the Week" as one of the proposals voted for. If we piss them off, then we can even meet in two suggestions. It practically comes to us as a sign that we stop telling citizens who they are and what their goals are. But that's not all, then the same show is organized by a kind of spit from all the MPs that are below each level. So sociologist Jovo Bakic told all the MPs, and I quote: "The elections will not change the current power, because the mafia government never leaves voluntarily." Further: “In Parliament the messengers of the people sit, under the precepts. Further: “Those who, instead of being in the stable, came to the congregation, and the congregation is to reality the program, it is not the speech of the normal world. ” So, we're abnormal mob cattle, whose personal and professional integritys are under question or under quote. I must tell you this way this gentleman insulted the MPs, but he also insulted all the citizens who voted for us to be here. Also, this is the way of trying to limit freedom of expression of MPs and pressure on the National Assembly. I will still have a question again today, only my question is now different – when you plan to put an agreement with the people as a proposal, so that we can vote for the personal interests of the Alliance's leader for Serbia? They fought in seven points, or they will fight for free media, for the amendments to the election laws they have passed, for the democratisation of Serbia, have pledged to leave work in this assembly, etc. Of course, about Kosovo and Metohija, about the economy nothing, about the development of the economy nothing, nothing about new jobs for our citizens, about the renovation of schools and kindergartens, about social policy, culture, sports and all the other issues that actually make up the lives of our citizens. Why isn't the agreement the subject of the show so we can criticize the colorful lie offered to the citizens? As you can see, I didn't insult anyone, I didn't tell anyone it was cattle and it was for the barn. I didn't tell Bakiæ that the sociologist was under question, I was just asking. But I say that Bakic has neither the right nor the legitimacy to insult, and we are legitimately elected representatives of the people who do their job. So we'll see, the citizens will show in the next elections whether they're for serious politics or whether they're for the tent policy that Bakic is propagating at the "One of the Five Million" protests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55342	Thank you, colleague Žarić Kovacevic. I didn't just understand if you asked me when we were going to put some sort of agreement on the agenda, because I don't know that there's any agreement with the people. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55343	I've got another minute and a half from the time of the authorized representative. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very end of the debate, we can conclude that there were no fundamental objections to this bill. I don't know, a lack of public debate, and then in the debate, we found that it wasn't an observation that was in place, so why the urgent procedure, so that they didn't have time to prepare, so we found again that it wasn't true, that they had more than enough time to prepare for the amendments and the bill itself, but they probably didn't care. We have a situation that one part of the opposition that allegedly boycotts the work of parliament has shown absolutely no interest, they have spent time in a tent or in a park or wherever, and the other part has shown some kind of interest, so he wrote and suggested some amendments, by the way, have wronged the law, they have submitted amendments to a completely different law, but it also speaks of their expertise and competence and about the desire to do quality work for which citizens chose them, which, by the way, they do not. So I'm glad, it all shows that this is a good bill, that this bill will give extraordinary benefits to the citizens of Belgrade primarily, and that this law establishes further decentralisation, strengthening the position of city municipalities, precisely regulating the relationship between the city of Belgrade, on the one hand, we said, as units of local self-government that the Constitution recognises and urban municipalities, we give greater authority and more authority to city municipalities, both urban and suburban. What's most important to me personally, although I come from the central city community, this is how we strengthen the suburban municipalities. So, these suburban municipalities are now getting opportunities, we said, and for the establishment of public utility companies and opportunities to issue city building permits and to carry out legalisation and urban plans, which will lead all together to greater competitiveness of these municipalities and to a better and better quality life for people living in these municipalities. For all of these reasons, here I have exceeded a little time, I apologize, I want to say that the SNS provides strong support to this bill, but also to all other efforts by the Serbian and Serbian government to make Serbia a modern, decent and successful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55344	Thank you, colleague Markovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, May 29, 2019, with the beginning of 12 hours and 10 minutes, as a day for voting on the agenda points of the 6th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-29-0.u55345	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision and I am voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 127, against – three abstentions – no, one did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic to Article 1. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I would like to put the amendments to the First Parliament member George Komlenski. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. The absence of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. George Komlensky. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. George Komlensky. I conclude the vote: for - seven MPs. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Dubravka Boyic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. The lack of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Philip Stojanović. I'm closing the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Nicole Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. George Komlensky. I conclude the vote: for - eight MPs. I put the amendments to Article 8. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8. Filipa Stojanović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 9. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - two MPs. I put the amendments to Article 9. Social Democratic parties, People's Parties. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Marijana Rističević. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 1 to the correction of Dubravka Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 12 to the vote. Tomislav Ljubenović. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13. Natasha Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - three MPs. I put the amendments to Article 14. Zorana Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 15 to the vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I am putting the amendments to article 15 to the correction of Sreta Periæ. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 17. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I put the amendments to Article 17. George Komlensky. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. I would like to put the amendments to article 17 tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 17. Believers of Radeta. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 17. The lack of Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 17. Peter Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote Rose Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - five MPs. I put the amendments to Article 21. Marijana Rističević. I conclude the vote: for - four MPs. I am putting the amendments to Article 23 to vote. Marijana Rističević. Finalising vote: for - six MPs. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act in general. Finalizing vote: for 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Act. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice in the courts of general and special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, in general. Finalising vote: for - 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Criminal Court in Krusevec, in general. Finalising vote: for - 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Justice at the Court of First Instance in Piroth, in general. Finalising vote: for - 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Dear MPs, please listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. The intonation of the anthem. ) Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the agenda points of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019.
