ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54925	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 63 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Milena Corilic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the capital. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend the meetings of Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Zoran Kasalovic, Bojan Stevic, Zikica Nestorovic, State Secretary at the Ministry, Sasa Movic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54926	I thank the chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act, I have tabled an amendment and practically proposed an intervention that is quite clear, logical and necessary and consistent with what you have submitted to this Assembly in the course of the meanings. The intervention refers to the future position of the 6th and the position of the 8th members of the 4th Law, in which you suggested that municipal networks in the territory of the city of Belgrade could be owned by the perpetrators of municipal activity, the founder of which is the city of Belgrade, whose city of Belgrade has been entrusted with the performance. My proposal refers to the fact that the municipal network can be owned and performed by the utility company whose founder is the city municipality of Belgrade, because in the next member, which you have proposed, you are opening and leaving the possibility that the city municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarevac, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin may be the founders of public utility companies under certain conditions. Accordingly, such a provision, in my humble view, is necessary, as is necessary in the future attitude of 8, where public enterprises, the founder of the city of Belgrade, would add the words "or the township" of Belgrade, the property of the city of Belgrade, are governed by the law, the founding act and the other act of the competent authority. So, urban municipalities from a wider urban area, including the Obrenovac municipality, from which I come, have the authority to provide conditions for the performance and development of municipal activities in its area. From this, liner transport of passengers and ZOO Hygiene and for their implementation could be excluded, and so far, according to the proposal that you delivered to the Assembly, and in the future, under certain conditions, they will be able to organise their activities in accordance with the law and regulations of the city of Belgrade. In addition, certain urban municipalities, which were formerly suburban, and I have the impression, had much better and more stable status than since 2007, when the town's name was invented, have invested huge resources both in the environments and then local self-governments, but also in their own personal property by citizens from these territories, invested in public utility. For this reason, I believe that there is no, not only an obstacle, but there is already an exceptional need for this amendment to be adopted and to allow those companies that exist or will be given the consent to establish in the future to use and dispose of the assets they have already acquired or which they will acquire in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54927	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54928	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment discusses the property of the City of Belgrade, which includes goods in general use, so roads, squares and public parks, communal network, mobile and immovable things, cultural goods, etc. Today we are facing a phenomenon that I think should also be discussed in parliament, which is unexpected if we consider that the main actor is one of the presidents of the municipality. So, you will agree, it is not exactly expected from one of the municipality's presidents to oppose that the municipality and the City of Belgrade are making progress at all, to develop and to be, in practice, a better and better place to live. Marko Bastac interferes with works in the Republic Square by removing the fences, he brings his committees to take walks in places where works are performed, chops and removes traffic signs and other signs and signals. In this way, not only does it probably extend the deadline for the completion of these works, but the real additional costs, after all, abuse its function and its position to exert political pressure on the city's government in Belgrade. So it's just a clear abuse of position. On the other hand, today I hear that a referendum will be carried out, completely against the laws and rules of practice. He will send people to visit apartments, to visit houses, to visit residents of the Old Town municipality, and it is very clear that it is another abuse of position in a series of abuses of positions conducted and held daily by Marko Bastac, as president of the Old Town municipality. Since we are discussing a proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Act, I believe that citizens should hear what it is, what it is, and will be abused and used in this allegedly political struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54929	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Milija Miletic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54930	I thank the chairman. I would support Mr. Komlenski's amendment and I would like to mention certain things, specifically about the City of Belgrade, of border areas where there are more villages. Nearly 300,000 people live in these areas and these people in our villages within the City of Belgrade must be provided, which is said to be better conditions, because these people are seriously farming, doing what is important to feed all citizens here in Belgrade. So I will support Mr. Komlensky's amendment. Normally, I think we also need to put more attention to our people living in these border areas, our villages on the territory of the City of Belgrade. In particular, when I speak it always says it comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, it is the municipality of Svrlig. Yesterday, colleague Verica said that she is the most beautiful municipality, but there is no court, there is no such thing, but we are witnessing that the city of Belgrade is the most beautiful city in the world. Therefore, I will support the amendment and I think that this law is good, that this law is excellent and that we are putting more emphasis on our people living in the country in the border areas of Belgrade because there are nearly 300,000 people living there. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54931	Replica, a colleague of Radeta's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54932	I didn't talk about the capital yesterday, it's on the agenda today, I just said yesterday, I made one fact that the Srlig that Milija says is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia and it really is beautiful. I told and asked to take care of some future problems in the judiciary, that Srljig is one of the municipalities that has no court, which has no notaries, which, in fact, cannot comply with the laws. Here, let's say in the election campaign, the signatures are certified there still in the local offices and in the municipality which is good, but it's not good that it's not in all of Serbia. Why does the Sršlig as such a beautiful municipality not center attention on the level of the Republic, so that it is really arranged in the way the laws that deal with it are prescribed. If they don't have a notary, they don't have anywhere to verify, they have to go to Nis to verify, say, sales contracts, and that's not good. In that sense, I mentioned Svrlig and, of course, nothing wrong with the beauty of Svrlig, but the attitude of the republican government towards Svrlig, at least when it comes to the judiciary must be a little better and more serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54933	Thank you. Comrade Miletic, would you like a replica? Here you go. (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54934	Thank you. Normally, when we talk about the most beautiful municipalities, Srlig is the most beautiful community. As far as these problems were raised by her colleague Verica, they are a fact of problems that there is no court, but in one part it was done in 2010, a network of courts where it was taken down, our court in Srelig that existed, but on the other hand I can say that a large number of people and the largest number of people in Srlig are honest, honest, hardworking people, so maybe the court doesn't need it. At the very end of the case about the notaries, I expect in the next period that they will have notes, one of the lawyers ended this notary exam and I expect that this notary will be very soon in Srlig, with the need for each local self-government to have all these necessary things and I will normally advocate as a representative of the United Peasant Party and a representative of the people living in Svrelig and supports Serbia's development and decentralisation policy normally, what is necessary for all of us, that every municipality must have all the necessary things, and that is already understood. Thank you, another colleague of Verici, who confirmed that Srljig is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but on the other hand, this is one of the problems we have to solve in the next period, but that will be solved as the time comes. On the other hand, we have to provide our municipalities with more jobs and conditions for bringing investors, and we are witnessing that a large number of investors are coming to southeastern Serbia and expects a more serious investor to come to Srlig. Thank you again, dear colleague of the Faith.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54935	Comrade Radeta, I'll give you a replica, of course, but I'm asking you to come back to the agenda later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54936	It's literally two sentences. I agree that people in Srelig are honest and honest, as I am convinced that in all of Serbia, most people are honest and honest. That's not why there's a court somewhere or there's no court. There are many situations where honest and honest people need a court. You don't need courts just where someone steals something, kills, fights, etc. There are desert debates, there are purchases, there are arrangements for the use of common courtyards, plots, civil things that need to be resolved by the court, and there's no dispute, there's no crime, you know. In that sense, I just still think that, not only the Srlig, but all the municipalities in Serbia, if we want to really develop, you like to say evenly, it is difficult to achieve evenly, but to develop and not stop in development, they must all have a basic court to begin with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54937	Thank you. (Milia Miletic: Replica. ) Col. Miletic, please return to the agenda after this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54938	Thank you. Once again, not to say it again, I've been saying it since 2014, but what my colleague Verica said, that stands. On the other hand, there are days where the judge comes and normally, people there end whatever it takes to solve their problems for their needs. I think it's right to negotiate with these small municipalities, but now that we're talking about the city of Belgrade, the city of Belgrade is the most beautiful city in the world, as far as we are concerned, here in Serbia, I'm safe and everywhere. So, we're here, we're in favour of decentralisation, now I'm talking about the law, but on the other hand, we should always mention these small communities, small municipalities from which good people come, honest people who want to be heard. I'm one of those guys, and I want to hear about these little municipalities, because I think without those small municipalities, believe me, it's gonna be hard to work out if there's no conditions in these small municipalities that we're talking about right now. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54939	Thank you. We're going back to the amendment debate. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Komlenski, and Serbian counterpart Filipovic reported on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54940	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the property of the city of Belgrade and the municipalities of Belgrade, I must refer to the state of the municipality from which I come as a National MP, the Old Town municipality. My colleagues have said a lot about it, however, I think there is room for it to be complemented in many ways. The president, and I can already say the infamous president, and I hope not for much longer, of this township of ours, Marko Bastic, who, along with his mob cousin, along with other thieves from that coalition, the alliance for the strangulation and rape of Serbia, has robbed this municipality years ago. Robbery is in such a very open way and not a bit ashamed of what it does to the Old Town and Old Town municipalities and all hiding behind some story about guarding the Old Town municipality. The only thing they keep in the Old Town municipality is their chairs, are the privileges, are the millions they put in their pockets just taking that money out of their hands to the citizens of Old Town. What were they doing? I'll give you one example that speaks enough about how Marko Bastic as president of the Old Town municipality robs the very municipality and the Sports Centre "Gale Muskatirović". A few years ago, in order to regulate municipal debts, only the utility debts they owed beyond what was necessary to pay, took a loan of 50 million dinars. Fifty million dinars took a loan a few years ago to pay back their utility debts. However, none of those debts were paid. That money is gone who knows where, and we see it through that 1,000-euro trotinite policy that drives in the Republic Square that we're trying to be far nicer, better, to be more attractive to tourists so that we can make more money and have bigger salaries and better lives, a better standard, so that this city is even more beautiful, even more functional for all our citizens, even more attractive to tourists. They go there and they crash, they beat the fences, they lift up those sidewalks we set up. Marko Bastic gave a statement the other day where he said -- if they, and when they are one day, he says -- when they come, and they will never, of course, come to power again, that everything that was done in the previous period and in the Old Town municipality, which was implemented by the SNS city government on the initiative of citizens and our city councillors, that everything that was done in the Old Town and Belgrade would return them to their original state, i.e. how it used to be. So, those smog facades, they fell apart, endangering the lives of the Old Towners. Two hundred facades will destroy, destroy all those beautiful fountains. It will destroy the beautiful pedestrian zone in downtown Belgrade. They're gonna destroy new buses. It'll destroy everything good we've done for the city of Belgrade. So I invite my Old Towners and the Belgrade citizens to listen well to all what those who play ninjas in the pioneer park say. We wouldn't have anywhere to be ninjas and commandos if this SNS city government hadn't arranged and reconstructed that pioneer park. We wouldn't have one park in Belgrade if the city's government hadn't worked very hard and intensely to reconstruct those parks for the past four, five and six years. So I invite you, citizens, to take care of what they tell you, as they tell you. Look at the debts the Old Town and the billions and 200 million left in Belgrade. Another piece of information for the citizens for the end of this exhibition. So 2.7 million are to make a deposit, which is otherwise already used. So for the old logo to make it again the same as it was paid for the "Milan Gale Muskatirovic" dispute centre. So 50 million for utility services, 2.7 for new – old logo, dozens of millions for embellishing the image of elected officials in the Old Town municipality. The Old Town municipality doesn't deserve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54941	Thank you, colleague Filipovic. By amendment, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54942	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with ministry associates, let's just remember the local sheriff, Mr. Gilas, and what he did with 17 Belgrade units of local self-government. He left a billion and 200 debts, either, but it didn't come back, and I have to answer it because my municipality, the municipality from which I come, is the municipality of Vozdovac. Now, that community was completely devastated, but completely. The fish had no water. Since the SNS came to power, we've built people 80 kilometers of water pipes, so people can now have water in the 21st century. Not to tell you what it looked like with the collectors. No collector, any septic caves in the city of Belgrade. Shame on them. We made a lollipop collector, we made a little morning. Now 35,000 people have collectors. Then, we paved over 80 kilometers of untegorized roads, made the road Kumodraž – Ripanj, made many entrances. In collaboration with the City Housing Company, we replaced 154 old, unsecured front doors. We have reconstructed three markets that have been infected - Dušanovac, Ripanj, Banjica, lit up from the forest, and what is very important, as regards our children and youth, two culturally – sports centres that exist on Vozdovac were completely devastated. What they did, they took the pool, and they left us nothing, a mockery. We came back after 40 years of swimming pools. And not only that, we have renovated the Sports Centre "Forests" so that it looks decent for both children and youth to be able to practice recreation today. Also, the Vozdovac Sports Centre has finally received new locker rooms. We've renovated the hall, the toilet, the medical rooms, the judge's rooms, etc. After 44 years, the stands were reconstructed and 1,900 chairs were replaced. That looks nice now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54943	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Professor Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54944	I think this is the moment, Minister, that you form a commission at the ministry to check whether all municipalities in Serbia, and first check Belgrade and Belgrade municipalities, have all their assets listed, whether they know what property they have. The second question - what is the function of this property? I think that there are problems in each municipality in the list and in function throughout Serbia. That's where surveillance is needed, and surveillance has to be done by the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54945	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54946	Yes, we have proposed an amendment to delete this attitude from Article 1 because we think it is not good, that it is actually best to express myself, unnecessary to form a public enterprise that would be engaged in building land and own building land, when we already have a directorate that deals with this business, a directorate which is both human, professional, material and in every sense provided and we do not see what the reason for you to say now – you cannot accept this because the proposed solution completes the legal framework for the regulation, use, improvement and protection of building land. How does this complete the legal framework if we have a Directorate for Property, for Construction, a Directorate with decades of experience? What better legal framework than that do you need? If the personnel directorate is to be strengthened, if necessary in another sense, we have nothing against it, but a public enterprise, along with so many public enterprises that both Belgrade and Serbia have is absolutely unnecessary. In a public company, you will hire party people, you will not take care of their expertise. You'll make a bad infrastructure and a bad job where everything can actually work. We're not saying that in the Directorate's state is brilliant, but the situation can be arranged, it's not brilliant as much as the government doesn't want to be and it can be very easy to put into order. But the formation of a public company where you're going to hire new people, where you're going to hire people who don't have professional equipment or experience, and we have experience doing that, so you're going to hire people for a certain time, and then these people are going to have to provide a number of votes in the election, etc. We also told you in the principle debate, this whole bill when it's being analyzed beautifully it's only being made to contribute to the election campaign for future elections. That's not good. Belgrade is a metropolis, a big city, it has to be done seriously. Do not introduce a new public company, hire even more professional people in the Directorate, equip even better the Property Directorate and build Belgrade and work in accordance with the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54947	Thank you. The People's MP Natasha Sp submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54948	Mr. Minister, we find this proposal unacceptable, we have asked for the erasure of this fourth position in Article 1 because municipal activity must also be the development of a municipal network under the city administration's patronage for the simple reason that the Law on municipal activities as a lex specialis in the bond law between the company that performs municipal activities and potential users says nicely that the provider of the municipal service, which is the company it deals with, must enable all residents in the area of a municipality of one city to have a municipal service. Even, the law says that one who receives a communal service doesn't even have to pay for that communal service, of course, we don't call on these people not to pay for it, but the law is beautifully illustrated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, obliged every territorial organisation to provide a communal service. Now, for those of us who come from other cities, like me from Kragujevac, colleagues from other Serbian cities, when someone tells us - I live in Belgrade; and this one lives in one of these suburban Belgrade municipalities, so there is no sewerage network, nor has a municipal infrastructure like many other smaller municipalities in Serbia, it is strange for us to know that if they were able to do so by now. So, all these small Belgrade municipalities, that is, on the edge of the city, that you will now give them and trust them to determine that level of municipal network and to take care of them. If they'd been able all these decades, they'd have ended it, and they just wouldn't have had that kind of problem. So, not one unit of local self-government, in this case the Belgrade city municipality, can take the burden of what the city needs to do, because since 1970 and some year, when Belgrade's settlement began intensively, especially the expansion, how the building of blocks around New Belgrade, and other parts of the city where huge complexes were built, this inflow of the population was even then great, and imagine now in expansion and construction and the arrival of an increasing number of people who want to live there, that you just say - and then, say, Sopot, Barajev, that I am not giving birth to these Belgrade municipalities, alone, to make sure that you leave it to them at the mercy and mercy, and that the city has no insight. It's just not good, it'll lead to new problems. Now if we had time to factor out in the utility system what it is that certain parts of the city should have, and they don't have in the 21st century, that story would lead us to consumption you know what time. Now, accept this, and you will see that only through such surveillance will you have real insight into how this municipal network is spreading, who's getting older, whether people have everything that the law and the Constitution prescribes that they have, and you will simply, in that way, better define the budgeting of the development of the municipal network for another year of funding from the Belgrade budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54949	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 5(5) in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act, which provides that the town's statutes can provide that the city's municipality has the right to public property over movable and immovable matters, necessary for the work of the authorities and urban community organisations. There is absolutely no reason for this, and it is the position of the SRS that city municipalities cannot be the bearers of public property and I think, Mr Ruzic, that you also need MPs of the ruling coalition, above all, to explain what the city of Belgrade is, because they obviously do not continue to understand that only the city of Belgrade is a unit of local self-government. We have heard from one of the speakers from the ruling coalition, who tried to make some impression on viewers, that there are 17 local self-government units in Belgrade. There are 17 municipalities, some of them are urban, some of them are suburban, but it would be good, perhaps, if you could educate them a little before these sessions and take that division to the end. When it was passed that law at first was unclear status, I may say, city municipalities and then some suggested that they be units of local self-government, others not to be. But now, after all these years, it is quite clear even though it is a good part and the MPs of the ruling coalition and citizens, I would say, still does not understand. So the city of Belgrade is a local self-government unit, a roof responsibility for everything that happens in the city of Belgrade, on the territory of the city of Belgrade lies on the authorities of the city of Belgrade, not on the authorities of urban or suburban municipalities, and for that reason, if you want to consistently implement this principle, and I think that's the only way, then you should accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54951	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54952	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, no one from the ruling coalition was wrong and no one from the ruling coalition, one speaker said there were 17 units of local self-government in Belgrade. So we know and what the constitution is on this issue, we know what the law so far was in the capital and we know about this problem that the previous speaker presented, that there is no recognition of the city's optin, any of these 17, as a unit of local self-government. The law right now aims to better regulate the relationship between the city, the capital as a unit of local self-government that the Constitution also recognises and city municipalities. We cannot accept erasing this member as a solution to that problem, which the previous speaker spoke of. It's this law that's trying to do what's best in the real conditions that we're in. That's exactly what this member of the bill is doing. Therefore, it provides the possibility for a public service operator, in this case a suburban municipality, when a municipal worker already performs his communal activity, and I would remind myself that the exercise of municipal activity is one of the original competences of the municipalities, then I do not see any problem in order for the public network to be in its possession to be more quality and finance activities in this regard and to carry out all other activities, and in order to better perform a municipal service. Why else does the municipality exist, if not because of it? Then let's get rid of all the municipalities. In the principle debate I was talking about, I was talking about a delicate situation where we're in, about a paradox, actually, and that's -- what's the election for the municipal assembly, what's the assembly, what's the president, what's all the public authorities, if they don't have any jurisdiction and if they don't have anything to do? It's cheaper then to put an end to the municipalities. But it's not a solution. The solution is this law, the solution is to give municipalities jurisdiction, and to improve the quality of life of people living in that municipality. Therefore, for all these reasons, it is totally unacceptable for me to delete the position of one member of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54953	Comrade Sarovic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54954	Mr. Markovic, you obviously didn't listen carefully enough to the exposure of your predecessors. I will now tell you specifically that Mrs Malusic told you that the previous government destroyed all 17 units of local self-government in Belgrade. What she thought was different, Mr. Markovic. We're not here to interpret thoughts. You may be doing this, but as far as we and Serbian citizens watching these broadcasts are concerned, they can only interpret what is said. The second thing is, you are calling for the removal of municipalities and you are talking about their responsibilities, and it would be good, here you are, you used to be a council member in the Belgrade City Assembly, even though the SRS boardman, you have very good knowledge, you know very well how much we fought to extend the competences of municipalities in Belgrade, especially suburban municipalities. But when you came to power, you did the opposite. You have kidnapped many responsibilities to units of local self-government, and related to legalization and related to the issue of building permits and many others. Now you're returning some of that, but all of what you've been doing so far, so centralization, it's just creating conditions for systemic corruption. You know, despite the declared fight against corruption, corruption flourishes where one man has the right to sign for the whole city. And you know very well what the secretariat is and where, if you want the case to be done across the line, then you have to pay a significant sum of money. Now, if you don't want corruption, then you end it, so you find that all cases have to be solved within a certain time limit, so you find that they have to be solved in the order they've been admitted and then you don't have a problem with corruption. So, one thing is what you do, and the other is what you say, but don't think that there are no people that the city of Belgrade and the regulations that regulate it follow even for a long time than you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54955	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The right to a replica, of course, also has co-worker Markovic and co-worker Malusic, since it was mentioned. Nemanja Sarovic: So what if it is mentioned, when it is true. I am not here to determine what is true, but only to follow the session of the National Assembly. Thank you. Here you go, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54956	Thank you. I know of the manner of the previous speaker that he often likes to twist other people's words, but what's only important here and what bothers me is that in his replica he said that we, I don't know who he meant when he said "we", abolished the authority of the city municipalities. This is what does not correspond to the truth for the simple reason that everyone knows that the Belgrade City Statute was passed in 2011, while the mayor was Dragan Gilas and it was Dragan Gilas who abolished the authority of the city's municipalities and carried out here, as we once said, the most brutalisation of the city of Belgrade. But what's important here? It is important here that during that period Dragan Gilas had the support of the just previous speaker who was the city councilman, I think he was even the head of the parliamentary group of one party in the Belgrade City Assembly during that period. And that period remained known for this support by the previous speaker, by participating in the work, i.e. membership of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of public utility companies and institutions whose town is the founder, while the mayor was Dragan Gilas. The fees on boards and boards at that time were, I think, between 30,000 and 50,000 dinars. You're lying like a dog. ) Now, I've experienced an insult from a pay phone, but it doesn't matter. It was the ruling majority in the city's assembly, decorated in Dragan Gilas, on the one hand, and the previous speaker, on the other hand, who carried out the most frightening centralisation of the city of Belgrade and abolished the powers now lamented by the previous speaker. I think it's really immoral that he's now honoring us for something that we're absolutely not guilty of, and by law we're trying to correct that mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54957	Thank you, colleague Markovic. There's, of course, more ground for replication, but we'll respect the order. First, a colleague of Malušić, then a colleague of Sarovic, because she was mentioned and then a colleague of Vjerica Radeta, as the SRS was mentioned. Here you go, colleague Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54958	Thank you, Chairman. If the speaker, the gentleman across the street, thinks the city of Belgrade isn't devastated, I'm in wonder. Voždovac municipality has 170,000 inhabitants. We had a budget as a smaller city of 35,000 people, for example. It's a shame. Well, we didn't have water, people, in the 21st century. A thousand times, when I was assistant president of the township of Voždovac, I ran into that Ripanj. There was a lot of pain there. Infection one, infection two, feces spilling, horror one. What are we talking about? There was no general urban plan. As we came to power, we made a general urban plan. It was that you had a house on the building. Full centralization. A billion and 200 debts. A man built himself a monument to life. He built a 500m-euro bridge, but that's why all municipalities were poor, devastated, poor. Some kind of pathway. You couldn't get past the leader in the car. You've got a lot of lawsuits. Well, that should go to his expense, not the current president's. Parks abandoned. Narcomania present. We've got the video surveillance, we've got the schools fenced. We have an officer on duty. We've brought water into Ripne, we've done a sewer. God forbid there was an earthquake, so the whole of Kumodraj would be here and all of Belgrade in feces. We're doing good things. They've been doing a really bad job. They centralized everything and everything went into their registers. All I care about is where the 350 million is from the bridge? The bridge cost a real 150 million. That's how much it cost in Paris, a mile longer than this. We, as we came to power, are completely... You can't believe what the Leader looks like, and it's not enough yet. Renovated schools, kindergartens, home of health that they were growing, 40 years was not used on Duke Step 226 Street. Now go see, for 15,000 people, 15,000 patients are coming there. They had absolutely nothing to do with it. What were they doing? They didn't pay off their families. Shame on them. We had family debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54959	Thank you. Right on line, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54960	Mr. Markovic, at the moment you lose your arguments, you resort to insults and resort to lies. And that's what he says about you. I, of course, have the arguments at hand, so I'm just going to give you an argument and answer. Whoever was in the coalition, assisted by the DS, Serbia's citizens know very well, whose formation was crucially part of the DS and what is the only successful DS project, alleged, is the SNS. I will remind you that according to the data I came to only from the Belgrade city budget, these are official data from the National Bank's Treasury, which I asked for in accordance with the Law on the availability of information of public importance, the party's report at the time, the daily "Justice", the SNS party's vote went over a million euros, only from the city's register. "The Great Serbia," for example, the SRS has never asked for a single dinar, and it has not received a single dinar. You say - I seem to be head of a committee group. Yes, Mr. Markovic, I was to you, too, until we were able to blackmail you from that committee group. What recognizes this period in the City Hall is that for the first time, sessions lasted more than an hour. And the day-to-day session of the Belgrade City Assembly never lasts more than an hour or two, and we then had a situation that one session lasted almost two months. There was no session that we didn't take full advantage of every agenda point, that we didn't discuss it, that we didn't criticise it. Dragan Gilas, because of the influence of my criticism, has not set foot in the Belgrade City Assembly for more than two years, and it remains some historical facts, and he has not set foot because he was unhappy with the way I explained the request for his shift in 20 points, which you have never done, nor have you thought of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54961	Thank you. Comrade Markovic, you have a basis for replica, but before you Verica Radeta, as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54962	It's interesting that this microphone, because if I'm a payphone, then it's a microphone, it's a custom, it has a need and a desire that every time it says it to accentuate, to distract, actually to remind us that we need to let the public know that it's his party. Dragan Djilas was part of a democratic party when Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic, the British and US embassies made advances. Is that something unknown? It's not. Did they admit it themselves? They did. The distraction and often mentions this, well counterpart Sarovic said, when there are no arguments, then why we participated in boards, well, if you were some Democratic Party, you would now offer all parties in parliament to be part of the boards of directors, to control how you work. But, of course, you don't. How do you not mind being in a coalition, exercising power both in Belgrade and in many local self-governments, and at the republican level, with a party that has exercised power with Dragan Gilas? What's your problem? You need to distinguish a little bit and see if you have any principles at all. If you object to us, and you, on the other hand, in power with the party that was in power with Dragan Gilas, then the problem is in you, not in them. They go where they're better. But the problem is you haven't been able to find any other coalition partners. Also, a colleague said she was interested in where 350 million were stolen from the bridge by Gilas. That's what we're interested in, so we're interested in when you're going to bring in more Gilas, interview him there, see if there's a case against him, if he has a basis, but we're interested and where's the 300 million that Zorana Mihajlovic gave to Bechtel?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54963	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54964	There's been a lot of untruth here, and I don't know where to start. First of all, I didn't tell any of them any insults, but I was the object of insult. I'm the only one here who's offended that if I'm not mistaken, I'm lying like a dog, or whatever the previous speaker said. The only truth that's been told here by the MPs across from me is that I was a city councilman in that period. Yes, I was a city councilman, elected on the Serbian Radical Party list, but only in 2008 and the first two months of 2009, when I returned my mandate, because I participated in the establishment of the Serbian Progressive Party, which I believed then, turned out to be right, that the only one could get Serbia out of the economic crisis and that only one could lead Serbia forward. I didn't know democracy was looking into sharing power with the opposition of the post in the boards of directors and supervisors. I really didn't know that until today. So that's the measure of democracy in Serbia. I don't know of any such example, except for the example of the City Assembly at the time Gilas was mayor, and the previous speaker was head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group at the time. I only know one such example, and only with that party. He did not then offer Gilas to all opposition parties to participate in the work of the boards of directors and supervisors, but only with the Serbian Radical Party. I have another question for the previous speaker, and that's -- is 2012 in that Shaper's office, you know, well, which Shaper I mean, did he get 350,000 euros on his party's campaign? The example makes it clear who actually helped in Serbia politically and for what purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54965	Right on the replica of my colleague, Veronica Radeta. Here you go. (Verica Radeta: First, Nemanja Sarovic. Like you fell from Mars... ) My colleague Radet, I did not fall from Mars, but my colleague Milicevic told me in what order. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. There's no need to insult me. Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54966	Mr. Markovic, let's find out who's lying. Here's what I'm offering you -- you've been saying for a while that seats on boards and boards are only offered to representatives of the SRS. It's easy to determine. It wasn't in the Bronze Age, not in the Middle Ages, but several years ago. I suggest the following – if we find that the seats offered are only for representatives of the SRS, I will resign and withdraw from public and political life. If we find that it has been offered to the representatives of other parties, then you or at least admit that you lied, then you now explain how and why. Secondly, you consider boards administrative and supervisory as party prey to satisfy your party activists and bots. The Management and Supervisory Boards have a function, which is management and supervision. We've had one representative on boards and boards, and we've launched a whole series of affairs. We didn't vote for any decision. We couldn't influence any decisions, but we could get information that mattered to us. Thirdly, Mr Markovic, it is the party principle of the SRS and at the time of the government we had in Zemun, which was the best recommendation for Serbian citizens to vote for the SRS, we gave all the political parties who had representatives in SO Zemun part of the board of directors and supervisors. It's democracy and it shows how radicals are where the majority government is, how we treat political opponents. So we are not declaring anything a state and official secret, but we are allowing elected representatives of citizens to control what those in power are doing and that is, in my opinion, the best principle possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54967	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54968	Exactly what Col. Sarovic said was that when we were in power in Zemun and when the president was Vojislav Seselj, president of the Zemun Municipality, we gave all the parties that were in the local parliament a number, a proportional number of seats on boards, and each committee group had its own secretary, and each committee group had a special office and each committee group had a reserved seat in the Zemun newspaper to write whatever they wanted about the government worst, best, whatever they wanted. We know, and not only do we know, but where we are able to implement democratic principles unlike you who don't know it, and to mention who took the money from whom, and to say it by someone who's a member of the party who hasn't received a single dollar from the budget for four years, and not to mention how much of the rooms, transportation, campaigns, etc., of the voluntary contribution a little tomorrow, not least, the public secret is where Paris is, and where "Ric" is and where Stanko Subotić and Milo Djukanovic sat and who they sat with and how much money who got it and warmly I recommend it to you – don't start about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54969	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54970	Thank you, Chairman. Says one of the previous speakers, mentioned some silver times, bronzed times, I know that time for him was a golden time. The time when he took part in Gilas's boards of directors and supervisors, and here he's trying to pin it on us that we consider boards and boards to be party prey or as he already said. Well, he's the only one here who sees boards of directors, board members as party prey because they're in a rush. He's the only one who's agreed to be part of Gilas' coalition, for the sake of the board of directors and supervisors. And then he brilliantly came up with an explanation that is, of an opportunity -- we wanted to control it there, we wanted to establish possible malversion or illegality in the work of these public enterprises. I can ask him, and what illegalities did you establish there? What information did you receive from these boards of directors and supervisors? What affair did you expose, what illegality, what malfeasance? Where did you post that? Let's ask Dragan Todorovic, who once asked Vojislav Seselj -- how come Nemanja Sarovic is joining the coalition with Gilas? On what grounds? Who gave consent to that, who gave permission? No party body has discussed this at this time. We ask Dragan Todorovic if it's true or not? I'm sure he'll tell the truth. No party body has discussed this. And he asked Seselj, - how did Sarovic in the coalition with Gilas and who even let him do it? And not just Sarovic. And finally, again, we didn't get an answer to the question -- what about 350,000 euros? Did he win or not at Shapper's office? Where did he spend that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54971	Right on the replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54972	Let's go, Mr. Markovic from the end. If, I understand correctly, you claim that I won in 2012 in Shaper's office the amount of 350,000 euros. Is that true? (Alexander Markovic: I ask. Is that what you're saying? (Alexander Markovic: I ask. Is that what you're saying and you're saying and you asked where I spent it, said it was a golden age and so on? Are you saying or will you immediately admit that you lied to him? (Alexander Markovic: I ask. ) I ask you, do you claim that I received some cash, in particular 350,000 euros, in Shaper's office in 2012? You've done it twice. Here, say, are you behind this or not? Are you behind this? (Alexander Markovic: I ask. Are you behind this? (Alexander Markovic: I ask. You ask, and I can, be careful, I'm very talented, Mr. Marovic. I can ask you-- did you do anything behind the house, did you eat anything? I can ask you that. Is that a legitimate question? So, you are, I will remind you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and take care of what you say. So if you're going to deal with such faceless lies and such accusations, then at least stand behind them. Don't be advised by those who earn you, that's not good. So, be present, you were once a radical, and I hope you kept some of those principles, at least a little bit. You asked, since I realized this was a lie and you wouldn't repeat it in public again, so you asked which affair we announced? For example, we launched the Big Brother affair and published in 100,000 copies of the special edition of "Great Serbia" that we shared in Belgrade, where at the time when the "Great Brother" started, we announced that Dragan Gilas had abused the area in the pioneer town. Specific documents obtained and accused him of it. It's a time when you couldn't say the name of Dragan Gilas or did it with awe, because he was the one who gave you both media and financial support.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54973	I thank my colleague Sarovic. Right on the replica of the Verse of Radet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54974	I'm just going to ask a question to my colleague Markovic who asked where there was something, where there was some money, etc. Or two questions. One thing - does Arno Danjan know? Second – where is Canet Subotic?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54975	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54976	Very short. The previous speaker showed a certain amount of nervousness and began to claim that I had claimed something. He can look at the rock of the note, I've asked a very clear question here, and I've repeated several times to ask the previous speaker what's wrong with the money? Did he get that money, what he spent it on, etc. If he doesn't believe me, he can look at the rock notes. My question is still open, I can repeat it, and this time I repeat it, everything I just said still stands. When it comes to whether I was in the SRS, whether I remained faithful to principles or already as he formulated it, yes, the truth is that I was in the SRS, the truth is that I was always... You stole the mandate. No, I didn't steal any mandate and please don't honor me. No, you stole an umbrella. ) I was a city councilman, returning my mandate when I crossed over, or participated in the establishment of the SNS I repeat, and then and now I believed, it turned out that I was right that the only one could get Serbia out of the economic crisis, that only one could lead Serbia forward. After all, you can see that clearly now. I have another additional question – what's so annoying about the previous speaker if what I said is false? What's with all the anxiety, what's with all the excitement, what's with all the threats, insults, and so on? If it's not true, nothing to anyone. I'm asking a question and I think it would be your turn to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54977	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54978	Mr. Markovic, there is a big difference between questions and claims. You claimed that I got some money, that I got in someone's office, specifically Shaper's, and you set up a time frame in 2012 and asked me how I spent that money and claimed it was a golden age for me. So, here's Mr. Markovic, let me answer you. I've never been to Shaper's office in my life. So, never in my life. I didn't cooperate with that person, I didn't talk, I didn't communicate, as if you were asking me who I don't know. I only know him as a public figure and that's it. So, don't deal with lies and inventions anymore, it doesn't look like you or like you, however, now you're in such an environment to like it, but let's get one more thing straight. You claim to have returned the parliamentary mandate. You did not return it to Mr Markovic, there is still documentation available in the City Assembly, but we are in accordance with article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia seized that mandate. So it was the party's decision to take that mandate away from you. It's been a while, and there's no need for us to go into reasons right now, but not now in front of the members of the party where you're talking today about how supposedly you were principled, so you resigned, because that's not true. So at the first moment these guys left, left the SRS, part of them stole the mandates, you just pointed out your criticism against them, you played a significant role for a while, and then you turned the turkey upside down, you saw there's a lot more media across the street, there's a lot more money and you left. It's your right. We have every member of our own voluntarily and voluntarily, and we can leave. We have a problem with those who stole our mandates, everything else is perfectly fine. But please don't claim falsely that you've returned your mandate, because you didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54979	Right on the replica of my colleague, Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54980	Well, here I am going to repeat the question to Mr. Markovic, since he just repeated the question, does he know who Arno Danžan is and how a million euros have been spent Canet Subotic frog? On this subject, here's what I'm saying publicly, I'm not going to, especially not with Mr. Markovic, because I just remembered that he, in our party on the city board, remained famous for stealing the umbrella from Momir Markovic in front of the Sava Center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54981	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54982	Just when a man thinks he's heard everything, he's surprised at the amount of creativity some can invent. So first, let's clarify one of the concerns that plagues the previous speaker when it comes to this famous mandate and the famous resignation in the Belgrade City Assembly. It won't be true that I, that I didn't get my mandate back, for the simple reason that there were those blank resignations at the time if you remember, which I temporarily signed, approved, so even a contract made with the party, which was also certified. According to this blanco resignation, I've been diagnosed with the termination of my term of office, but I've been left blankly. So I resigned, Mr. Sarovic, and that's the only truth. I resigned when I saw the way you trampled on the principles of this very SRS that you were then representing in the City Assembly. You're here against Gilas, and you can't wait to get on the boards of directors. Why did I say golden age? There is another golden age in the life of the previous speaker, he was then a national MP, then he did not participate in the administrative, supervisory boards of Gilas, he was already a national MP here, and when he traveled every day, he allegedly traveled from Vranja to Belgrade to charge travel expenses, everyone knows that, everyone knows that in Serbia, and at that time he achieved 19,000 euros as an additional cost. That's why I said it was a golden age, but not a golden age for Serbia, but a golden age for the previous speaker. As for that umbrella, I really don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54983	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54984	You, Mr. Markovic, know the principles of the SRS and those who were capable, have worked throughout Serbia. For example, those who are not, here you are, we have barely kept you on that Wizard. But the good thing is, it's a good thing that you have now admitted that you have not resigned and that you have not returned your mandate, but that the party authorities have decided that your mandate should be suspended and in accordance with the Constitution and the law, we have resigned instead and your term of office has been determined. So, your will wasn't here, it was the will of the SRS party bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54985	Thank you. The People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54986	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I have submitted to Article 2 the amendment and the correction concerns that I believe that the city municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarevic, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surčin can be founders of public utility and in this part of the so far agree with the proposal submitted by the promoters, but I think that the tutors in terms of giving special consent, regulation of the procedures and determinations that the city council body should exercise the right of founders are a little too much in the hands of the city of Belgrade in relation to these municipalities, if we expect that public utility companies of these suburban municipalities, which exist or which would be established in perspective, can indeed be established and that for their work they bear responsibility exclusively and only the management of these municipalities, and not even after that they are called on the city, that the city's ability to be able to be able to provide that the city, and the other way, that they can be able to communicate. I really don't think there's any room for that. I can agree that we should look for a modus and a way to generally in certain municipalities in Serbia, but here we have an example in Belgrade, we should look for ways to really determine custody, what would be used by the Social Labour Centre, because this custody is obviously needed by the management of the Old Town municipality. But don't be dissuading with such provisions the really huge engagement of people in suburban municipalities who don't rely on the money of the city of Belgrade, the budget of the city of Belgrade and whose municipal enterprises, with such a legal provision, would, if it remains, be in an unequal position with public enterprises and public utility companies operating in the territory of the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54987	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. (Alexander Martinovic: Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (Miss Radeta: This one has not submitted the amendment. You can't read. ) Alexander Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54988	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this amendment monitors the intensities of the bill when it comes to the regulation under which the city municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarevic, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Surcin and Sopot will be able to establish public municipal enterprises, along with the prior consent of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, and in accordance with the statute of the city, which will be established by the authority of the city municipality, which exercises the rights of founders. In view of the above, it is necessary to regulate the conditions for obtaining consent, as well as the procedure for obtaining consent with the Belgrade town's statutes, and in order to fully regulate the relationship between the city on the one hand and the city's municipalities on the other. So that's the essence of this amendment. I remind you of how important it is to give higher powers and how much we are thus strengthening the position of suburban municipalities, but also faster development of the municipalities themselves. When it comes to the possibility of establishing public utility companies, and I will remind you that this communal activity is one of the original competences of just suburban municipalities, but also when it comes to obtaining consent, when it comes to being able to issue building permits, to carry out legalisation procedures and all other jobs that we give them in this way, or trust. Why would a municipality, say Paracino, be able to establish a public utility company? Paracino only said because Paracino was famous for the Paunovic and these pests around him, they completely destroyed the municipality, stole the municipality itself, but also public enterprises. So why can Paracino start public enterprises, say Lazarec or Obrenovac or Surchin can't? It doesn't make any sense. This law removes these illogicalities and enables municipalities to develop more quickly, but also to be more competitive and more attractive to investors. Speaking of investments, I'll remind you that the Meita factory in Obrenovac is the first factory in ten years, I think after 12 years, Meita is the first factory open in Belgrade's territory. She employs over 1,000 people. Imagine when we have more meitas, one Meita in every suburban municipality. So Gilas and the team led the city of Belgrade, no investment could be made, no factory was opened for the entire term. There's exactly the difference between Gilas and these pests and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54989	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54990	According to my colleague Markovic's amendment. Although the government has agreed to accept this amendment, I can agree that this amendment was technically necessary and that it was what the Government's proposal and the government's intensity had its purpose and for this reason I understand. But I can't support him in any way, from exactly what I was talking about earlier, and it's a completely unnecessary procedure, unnecessarily placing a tutorship in some way on the municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin whether and how and how in the future they can start public utility companies and for that reason I think that this is the only way to think about it. With this and this approach, the suburban municipalities I have counted place an irregular position with city municipalities or with municipalities located in the narrow territory of the city of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54991	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54992	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished guests from the ministry, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, of course my colleague Markovic's amendment should be accepted in the voting day I will vote for this amendment. In the principle debate on the law on amendments and additions to the Capital Act, I did not speak because I believe that the advantage, i.e. primate, is given to MPs from Belgrade who live and work there. But there is a similarity between Belgrade and the town of Nis, where I come from, because the town of Nis is also organized by the city's municipalities, five municipalities in the town of Nis, so that certain city affairs are carried out by city municipalities established by the Statute of the City. It is clear that these changes and additions are being decentralisationd in terms of the transfer of a number of jobs, i.e. the authority of urban municipalities, which will lead to a more efficient and even meeting the needs of all citizens. Therefore, it is also an example of good practice, so as a national MP, I will advocate, through the SNS parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the City of Nis, for such good solutions to the change and addition of the Niš Statute. The fact is that the city municipalities of Nis do not have these powers as units of local self-government, for example, the mentioned municipality of Svrljig, which is six times smaller than the town municipality of Median, but therefore has greater powers because it is treated as a unit of local self-government. This solution will create conditions specifically for the performance of municipal activity in the area of urban municipalities, aimed at improving the quality of life of the inhabitants of these municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54993	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54994	I would ask Mr Markovic to explain a little bit, so that it would be clearer for us and the citizens of Serbia, when he says Dragan Djilas and these vermin around him that have ruined the city of Belgrade and many other things, who does he specifically mean? (Alexander Markovic: On Paunovic from Paracino. ) So, I know that the government with Dragan Gilas performed the SPS, so JS, so PUPS, as the backbone of his power, and SPO, so Rasim Ljajic, and Sulejman Ugljanin, who you are in the coalition with. So, when you say Dragan Gilas and the pests around him, do you mean your coalition partners then? You literally took over all of his coalition partners, not to go into it and not to talk about how much you're even directly personnel, and those you once attacked most, such as Jelena Trivan, like former Minister of State Administration and local self-government Markovic, who you attacked for that multi-million-euro yacht, how many they found safe haven and safe from criminal persecution in the Serbian Progressive Party or think of someone else eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54995	The People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54996	Thank you, Chairman. There's been another misunderstanding by the previous speaker, which we're used to today. Just to be clear, the notion of vermin in my earlier address was directed towards Paunovic, the president of the Paracino municipality, a prominent democracy. There may be some sympathy for Paunovic by the previous speaker, I don't know, we haven't established it, he may have some co-operation with him, but he probably felt the need to talk about his golden age when he was working with Gilas in the City Assembly when he was in power with Dragan Gilas in the Belgrade City Assembly. You know, the chairman, the boards of directors and supervisors are a category of executives, so the government itself controls the administrative and supervisory boards of public utility companies. Therefore, it is not a congregation category so that the results, a proportionate number of MPs or committee members, can be filled in by boards of directors and supervisors. But I have another question for the previous speaker - who is today, 24 May 2019 at 11:30, who is in power today with the same Gilas? Here, I'll tell you, the party of the previous speaker in Old Town Municipality. Right? They cooperate beautifully, they have council members, they probably also have boards of directors who worship the other elements of a municipal government. They're participating nicely, doing great cooperation, helping Bastac in all of this. Is that right or isn't it? Who's in power today in Old Town County? Bastic, Gilas vice president or perhaps not his vice president, may be a member of the presidency of the Gilas party, and a party of the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54997	The People's MP Nemanja Sarovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54998	Really, Mr. Markovic, I don't know how much Bastac pays you for this commercial you give him. Believe me, I envy him at certain times, and I'd really like you to start us off a little bit by advertising. What you're saying is that the boards of directors and supervisors are prerogatives of authority. They're not that. So they serve to control the government, Mr. Markovic. However, your understanding of democracy shows that even, behold, I will remind you, and at the time of the DS government which was extremely bad, catastrophically bad, but even then the presidents of the most important assembly committees came from the opposition, and you from the SNS have taken everything. Not only do you have a majority in your assembly committees, but you've placed your presidents or your blind listeners, like Chanka, one of the presidents of the Dvora, and the SRS as the largest opposition party and as the second largest party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has none. I'll remind you that after the SNS, which I suppose has some 90 or 100 mandates, the SRS has 22, SPS 21 etc. So, according to the highest democratic principles, we had to belong first to the President of the Administrative Committee, which was a parliamentary principle for many years, until you came across and violated it, because you think if you have the highest confidence of citizens, then you should have absolute authority. You know, one wise man said -- every government corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. You as a majority should try to enable the opposition to function, to be as high as possible, to control you as best as possible, and therefore to make your authority's impact as best as possible, because it is in the interests of the Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u54999	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55000	I thank the chairman. Again, the previous speaker mixed all possible categories and congregation committees and boards of directors and supervisory committees and packed them all in his speech. So, just for the sake of Serbian citizens, let's try to break it down and get it straight. When it comes to assembly committees, it is a completely different category and it is regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, the applicable Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker is otherwise known as someone who most often appears here in the Rules of Procedure, but he did not seem to have thought to read the Rules of Procedure, to find out how and by what model they fill, or named the chairman of the Assembly Committees. I think it's about the president of his party insisting on being president of a assembly committee or something. And then when, you know, it's not a fountain wish, so now I like something and at all costs I want to be on that committee or the chairman of that committee or a member of a delegation. Since he didn't get it, then there's a problem that the previous speaker is talking about. However, when it comes to the administrative and supervisory committees of the Belgrade City Assembly between 2008 and 2012, in which the previous speaker participated. The city government of the then majority of the parties, therefore, made a decision to appoint the directors of public utility companies and institutions whose city is the founder and board of directors and supervisory boards. It's a prerogative, a power. At one point, however, when the city government of Dragan Gilas decided they needed the support of another opposition party by then, it opened up a space for representatives of the party and only those parties that pointed out the previous speaker. But again, we haven't heard that about the 19000 euros he received on behalf of travel expenses in that golden age, and who is in power today with Mark Bastac, Gilas' representative and his party in the municipality of Stari Grad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55001	Right on line, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55002	So, Mr. Markovic, you're back to being false. First of all, I've never taken part in any supervisory and board and you know it very well. The second thing is never true that we participated in these boards of directors and supervisors from 2008 to 2012. Third thing, if you're interested in who we're in power with. We are in power in a number of municipalities with SNS, in New Belgrade we are in power with Aleksandra Sapic, in Stari Grad we are in power with Marko Batać. So, we local coalitions, we make it by making our local committees feel free to decide and we think it's in the interests of Serbian citizens and we're not ashamed of it. Now, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Markovic, if you'd come back to the basics now, to explain to us if you're ashamed of your coalition partners? Are you talking about pests devastationing the city of Belgrade and devastationing all of Serbia with Dragan Gilas and the Democratic Party? Half of that Democratic Party has been admitted into the ranks of the SNS. Please say whether the Socialist Party of Serbia, the SPO, the JS, the SDPS, the PuPS, the Sulejman Ugljanin with which you are in power in Prepolje, and you attack him in the worst possible way in public, do you consider them harmful? So, is Suleiman Ugljanin good when you're with him in power in Prepolje, and it's no good, when he says Kosovo is independent when in the worst possible way he attacks the Republic of Serbia and its highest state bodies?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55003	Right on line, MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55004	Well, here's the chairman we finally heard some truths. One of the truth, says the previous speaker, I did not take part personally, says, in these boards of directors and supervisors. Yes, he did not, for the sake of truth, participate personally, only was the head of the committee group who decided to enter into co-operation with Djilas at the Belgrade city level and made the decision without the consent of his party president, according to Dragan Todorovic, I trust Dragan Todorovic. I trust Dragan Todorovic, who says Seselj did not know then and did not approve of joining the coalition with Djilas at a time when the city of Belgrade remained in charge of more than a billion euros. So I think even some figures are 1.2 billion euros that we're returning today. Today, this city government is paying back the debts of the national government in which the previous speaker took part. The second thing, the other truth we heard today, is that I am glad that he acknowledged his co-operation with Marko Bastic, and I am glad that he acknowledged that his party today is in power as the equal partner of Gilas' party in which Bastic is a member of the presidency. So, I'm glad it's been made public. I'm glad the citizens can now know who's doing everything the municipal government in Old Town. I have a question for him - then do they participate in the equal and in these actions of Bastac's around the city what he's doing? Do they block construction sites, do they fight traffic signs, do they steal those fences, etc? Does all this support, but actively participate, and does he think that's what the citizens of Old Town approve of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55005	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55006	I thank the chairman. This already extended exchange of various facts or better tell the dialogue mentioned in the negative context of the SAA. Then it would also be correct to give on behalf of the SPS one answer which is undoubtedly adequate to what is said here in terms of the correct response, that is that the SPS as a state-owned party has always justified citizens' trust and that, on behalf of citizens, it has been participating the authorities in full capacity. Any, I repeat, any coalition format in which the SPS was in has a special reputation for citizens, and the SPS on behalf of and for the citizens of this country, this Serbia, has built this country up as the citizens have asked. Therefore, the classification of SPS in some pests is at least or least degutant. We have no reason to justify ourselves to anyone. We have no reason to look behind us for what we have done and how much we have done, to be ashamed of anything. So what is important is that citizens know that the SPS and this government, and in this coalition format, will do their best to ensure that the state of Serbia goes the best way for citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55007	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55008	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, from all these discussions we have heard under this amendment, we can conclude more things, and for the citizens of Old Town of Belgrade and Serbia, the most important thing is that we have seen one picture of what is desirable coalition partners for Mark Bastac, what is it like to lead and how one municipality from the vision of Mark Bastac and what kind of people he gathers around him is, in fact, what is his team. I'll remind only the citizens of Old Town in 2016 when there was a whole mess about who became part of the government in Old Town, so these yellow coalitions say - shame on us for being with us, so if they're not with us, we should drive them out. Well, these knock, they say, we're not with them, today they say they are with them. And as counterpart Markovic noted those travel expenses of 19,000 euros, that is the picture of the desired coalition partners for Mark Bastic. Well, tearing down fences in the Republic Square. Here, there's a question of some kind of umbrella. How much umbrella can be bought for that 19,000 euros. Here, let's get this thing settled right away. If an umbrella went somewhere, where did 19,000 euros go? Where did 50 million go from the sports center? Well, then keep the thief here. This is where we talk about the umbrella, and we take 50 million dinars from the citizens of Old Town's pockets. In charge of the Sports Centre, they say, see Mr Markovic, they say the authorities are in the Old Town with Bastic. So we shared debts with Bastac in Old Town, which, first of all, Bastac made. Suppose when you're in power to be proud of what you're doing. So, you're proud of the million-euro debt of the "Milan Gale Muskatirović" Sports Centre. So that's what you're proud of. You're proud of 2.7 million dinars for a new one – an old logo on Old Town. You're proud of the collapse of downtown Belgrade. That's what some people are proud of. The citizens of Old Town are ashamed to have such a coalition in power, wrinkled, wrinkled, everything is like one pot, one real forest pot to put everything in. Everything that's up to their power, up to their money, so let's just take as much as we can, until Old Town Municipality is shut down in the end. Now, it won't shut down the Old Town municipality, the Old Town municipality we'll save in the next local elections, because that's what the citizens of Old Town Municipality are looking for. They don't care about umbrellas, they don't care about your boards of directors that you're so in love with, because even here today, in front of Serbian citizens, you're asking the government of the SNS -- give us, not the board of directors, we won't answer again. No boards of directors, no boards of directors, no more travel expenses from Vranj to Belgrade and back. It's not there. Guys, it's over. Change the way you view politics, if you think your coalitions and your parties are doing something in the next election. The Serbian Progressive Party will therefore convincingly all those Bastic, Djilas, Jeremic and others for boxing with coalition fences to win, convincingly, in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55009	The word is from a colleague named Grozdana Banac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55010	I apologize, because I consider this to be an MP that this place parliament is a legislative body, where we really need to act seriously in this regard. Please, as far as the United Pensioners' Party is concerned, in order to no longer be mentioned, the United Pensioners' party is a parliamentary party, people with experience and who built this country, who, by their own contribution, only by sacrificing, please. I wouldn't want to mention any game, each party has its own way of working. The United Pensioners Party owns its own, as a parliamentary party, business, so the party president, Mr Milan Krkobibic, acts by the decisions of the president of the municipal committees, for each coalition of the city committees, with the agreement of the local committees. Therefore, I ask you best to behave seriously and in that sense that we continue on the agenda today, so that we do not call ourselves here for things that are in the past, that we may find it easier today and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55011	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Jojic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and I remain with that argument, which is why I have submitted it, and on the other hand, I expect it to be adopted by the National Assembly. What I'd like to point out, which is one of the biggest problems at the bar, and it's about the powers and rights of local self-government, is corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the state auditor came out of the data these days that more than 280 billion dinars were illegally and unlawfully spent, and the moss at the bar. The biggest problem at the bar is, above all, in the area of issuing building permits. This is where deep-root crime flourishes in Serbia. One case, I will point out in parallel – that in May 2017, the company Ingrap Stan Association from Belgrade, through its legal representative, Director Zivkovic Zivojin, filed criminal charges against lawyer Predrag Basarić of Pančev for the criminal act of fraud and for the criminal act of abuse of trust. Namely, the applicant claims and states that lawyer Predrag Basaric has promised the investor that he will be granted a building permit using a permit to build a facility in Panchev. What happened? That lawyer failed to give the order of his employer, i.e. The housing cooperatives I cited, but therefore in a duped manner concluded the contract that the Ingrap Apartment Association gives the lawyer Predrag Basaric two apartments of about 100 square meters, with an value of 80,000 euros. When the investor and his legal representative asked a question, what kind of service costing 80,000 euros, how are you looking for two apartments and a legal representative for investors, he said, so he told me a lawyer that one apartment needed for them and one apartment for me. As far as it's true, I can't argue, but it suggests that this criminal record is also a signal that says there's corruption at the bar. The biggest corruption today is at the bar. The current government has begun certain activities related to the discovery, the lighting of the crime at the bar. However, ladies and gentlemen, this should continue, comb and check all of Serbia in all municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55013	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Comrade Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55014	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be not accepted for the reasons the Government has given. I must say that so far the capital of Belgrade has been treated as a special unit of local self-government, but this bill extends its jurisdiction because of its administrative, cultural, economic and political complexity. That, Mr. Minister, is a really good thing that you've proposed this amendment to the law. The capital must have, and you've pointed out in your opening speech here in the assembly, professional staff, not to say the most professional staff, especially morally correct. For example, the presidents of political parties must be individuals with rich intellectual, working and moral qualities, often not. I'll name one case. Look at Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called Sergei pee, because he said he would piss on the grave of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. It's just a liar. He deeply moved the border of his own honor, shamelessly lied that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, at the time of the RTS bombing by the NATO Alliance on April 23rd 1999, knew about the attack and that in time, he had pulled out of the RTS building "his mother Angelina", which was a journalist. It is common knowledge that the mother of the then Minister of Information, and today the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, was in the RTS building. Sergey Trifunovic was also denied by Vucic's most concerned opponents, Slavisa Lekic, the recent NUNS president and Zeljko Pantic, a journalist. Mr. Lekic said, quote - people who were in RTS and others live claim that the president's mother was here that night at RTS. Vukic is a Vukic, but it is true, is true, finished quote, or Željko Pantic, otherwise the correspondent of RTS from Rome, says, quote – I sat across from her that night, finished the quote. Here, you see the respected citizens of the Republic, the liar Sergei Trifunovic, in a people called pee. First of all, let me say something about him, but I'd better give up. I will give up, but I will quote his colleague Biljana Srbrljanovic, who described him as a liar, she says, quote - unwashed, lying Sergei. Now, that's the leader of these protests, he's always been a sneaky liar, he's always licked me, he's always been a gold medal in getting in your ass, he's always lied, he's always smelled, he's always scratched for money, he's had a meal, he's never washed himself, he's always cheated on his colleagues, he's finished a quote. Declaration by Biljana Srbrljanović on 20 January 2019. Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who is the president of one of the political parties. In the capital and journalists as you pointed out, all personnel, so journalists must also be the most qualified, because of the complexity of Belgrade's capital. Here's what it's like for you. Quality journalist Milojko Pantic, in a people called crazy. The moral gromada, one of the leaders of the SZS, a dead drunk, caused an accident on Brank's bridge on May 5th, 2019, and that moral gromada Milojko Pantic, in a people called crazy, fled from the crash site in the opposite direction. Our very good police arrested him very quickly and took him to the police station, and look at the wonders, you know who he accused, respected citizens, you'll hit, well, Alexander Vukic, who else would. I was really right when I gave the characteristics of Milojko Pantic in this high house. Let me say that this moral gromada, Milojko Pantic, called in the crazy people, is one of the leaders of the SZS, who told the ruling coalition on June 19th 2018, quote – that the ruling coalition is paranoid, nationalist, shallow-minded, or ruling, primitive, incompetent, political factors, completed the quote. For citizens of the Republic of Serbia from Zagreb, he sent a quote for most of the citizens of the clerofastic, nationalist, multi-bole factors. He is not the only one, and the mayor, as it is the City of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, in a people called the Giki Mafia, has received a new epithet. Now he's next to the Giki Mafia, he's got a Giki Liar epithet. Dragan Djilas, a respected citizen known to you as the Giki Mafia, lied that the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, slept in the most expensive hotel in December 2018 during his visit to Abu Dhabi, where the night cost 10,000 euros. The truth is, President Vukic has not stayed in any hotel and the state of Serbia his stay cost no single dinar. His claim by Điki mafia, and also by a liar, proved himself because the river I quote - the president because of the public pressure, and even a part of the MPs, quote later what he said, President Vukic did not stay at any hotel, and the state of Serbia did not cost him a single dinar. So he got a new epithet not only of the Giki Mafia but of the Giki Liar. All those DS in various variants are no better, and the Alliance is now for Serbia or you, an alliance known as traveling circusrs, by the cities of Serbia. That's not just what I'm saying, but also a member of the DS, their former ambassador, Svetislav Basara, who said about the DS 22nd of May 2019, quote – The Democratic Party is a self-government community of mules and liars, finished quote. So it wasn't just me who said they were liars, and here's their high-ranking member of their party and their ambassador. That is why, on the occasion of the concept of this Capital Act, as the minister said in his opening speech, it is also important to take care of the staff, that they be truly moral in the first place. And, in that sense, I support both the law and the report, that is, the opening speech, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55015	Thank you. On Article 3rd amendment with a correction, the People's MP, George Komlenski, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55016	I thank the chairman, my friends and my comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers with my associates, for Article 3, I have submitted an amendment with a correction, intervening in the following matters. In point 4, I believe that when proposing this law, it is well mentioned that this is in line with a law governing the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations, but I think the failure to mention here is also a law on the protection of critical infrastructures. This law puts protection in Belgrade's jurisdiction, and I believe it is an absolute place to complete the obligations of the city of Belgrade and the right to regulate it with the Statute. In addition, the Defence Law entrusted the city of Belgrade with the adoption of defence-related plans. In this sense, I also suggested adding to this same position, point 5, which would read - brings a plan to defend the city of Belgrade and determines the statute of the Belgrade city's executive obligation of city municipalities in the area of defence and the protection of the confidentiality of data under the Defence Act. If this point were not added, I believe that on the basis of the legal powers passed on to the city of Belgrade in which the executive obligations of city municipalities and municipalities in the municipality in the territory of the Republic of Serbia were defined, not only would the Statute without this in the Law do so. In addition, the following intervention refers to points 3 and 4 because I see no reason to restrict the possibility of the city of Belgrade by establishing the division of business between the city and city municipalities by imitating it to points 18 to 20, and in that sense is the provision of the next position where powers are given to the Statute of the city, i.e. this law would give authority to any of these 24 paragraphs or 23, depending on whether you accept the addition of another point that I have proposed and explained earlier, can be trusted, so the city decides on that. In the fourth position, the city would be a second-degree body where complaints would be decided. I do not see any reason why the city of Belgrade can arrange uncategorised roads, decision on the names of streets, squares, settlements, other parts of inhabited areas, what kind of goods can be sold and what type of catering services can be provided in temporary facilities, that the setting of time, ways and places where a retail trade can be done with movable funds or equipment cannot be entrusted to urban municipalities or suburban municipalities or some of the municipalities. If attitudes 3 and 4 remain the way you suggested them, this makes it impossible for the city of Belgrade to execute the division with the Statute. I don't see any reason for that. I think that these are legal and technical editorials, regardless of what it is to add a new position, but harmonising with the Law on Defence and simply enabling and harmonising and with the Law on Protection against critical infrastructures, and in the end it does not change the essence of this law by remaining at the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, to whom and how it will trust any of these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55017	The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55018	Thank you, Chairman. Simple, for clarification. I thank you for this amendment. As far as the Defense Act and the Defence Plan are concerned, it will certainly apply. In doing so, the amendment has arrived late, and the amendment itself has already been rejected. But what's much more important because of the Belgraders and the general public, it's important that we know that there is no urgency here that points 18 to 20 implies what you're saying. So, first of all, it's about the division of business within the entrusted affairs of the state administration, and what is the original jurisdiction of the city is, of course, governed by the Statute, about the division of business between the city and the city municipalities, so it's not an emergency that anyone is suspended by law. There's only a difference between the original powers and the entrusted affairs of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55019	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a colleague Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55020	This is an opportunity, according to us, for Serbian radicals, to make some adjustments, or to make some adjustments when it comes to amending and supplementing the Capital Act. One of the ones we propose is that, based on experience, on the effects that have been achieved, we see that the existence of the municipal police is not justified. There's not only these two reasons, but there's a third reason. The history of the creation of this municipal police force is more or less familiar to all of us. He continued, first of all, at the beginning of the city of Belgrade. Why? Because it was more of a status issue for Belgrade's mayor at the time, who was more politically well-founded than his co-workers in the DS, and he felt that a frog would see where horses are bitching, so that in America and the West they have these local police, at least for starters, and he could have the municipal police. We attended the promotion of the municipal police. All films, videos were shown to convince Belgrade citizens, above all, that this is very right, that the municipal police will maintain municipal order, implement municipal decisions, and ultimately end up being the main role of the municipal police, under the authority of the municipal police, to turn their hands to citizens of Belgrade who have not paid for a bus ticket or a ticket for a tram, and we see that they are uniformed, they also have sticks that are a symbol of strength, power and represent in some way a repression rather than something that would be in the sense of replacing a municipal inspection that has functioned by then. Why does this matter? Because it was a cause and the reason for the forming of municipal police in other towns of Serbia, and you have a completely peeled situation when it comes to the city of Belgrade and some other cities. The police are literally headed by representatives of the clans that are underground, both Belgrade and other personnel, who are close to ruling foreigners, or structures. We know that before, at the head of the municipal police in Belgrade, he was a representative of the water clan, as he was a representative of the same clan in some special units of the interior ministry, but I guess in some thinking it created a picture so that eventually the mayor could have a repressive measure when it comes to implementing his authority. We insist that there is no more room or reason to allocate no small funds for the functioning of this municipal police force, because neither in Serbia nor in Belgrade, which has 1,500,000 – 1,600,000 inhabitants, there is no point in having more types of police. Now that you're doing decentralisation, you should be in every local community, but when you go so far as to be one or two communal inspectors. The condition to be a communal inspector is the least highly trained cook, and here we have that for a communal officer you can, only if you delete his biography, the past, put the one who came out of the Padin scale yesterday, put the bat on, so he goes after Belgrade, that he decides who can't and who can't have a gig, who can't do something that's against the law, and that's already leading to anarchy, so now is the chance that this point that's contained in Article 3 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55021	Thank you. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55022	Article 3 actually refers to Article 8 of the basic law proposal, and there are reserved responsibilities of the city of Belgrade, which you have quite expanded in relation to the existing situation. According to the SRS, this is how you make a district of the city of Belgrade in Serbia. As far as we're concerned, that's not good. Belgrade as the capital and as a metropolis should be both modern and developed, etc., but the whole of Serbia must start to develop at last, not all of them moving out of their places to get closer to Belgrade. Of course, this doesn't mean we have something against it. As far as we're concerned, everyone can live in Serbia wherever they want, wherever they want, but simply, in all places, they should have about the same conditions. You have here predicted that the city of Belgrade as a local self-government, among other things, will acquire building land and other real estates. This is something that is absolutely unacceptable. Our view is, otherwise, that local self-government cannot have and should not have property in terms of building land, some reselling facilities, sales etc., because it is not the essence of the existence of local self-government. Local self-government should be the service of citizens and address municipal problems in the territories of their local self-government. You now explain to me what someone in Belgrade will do, what will the city of Belgrade buy some building land? What, to trade, to resell, to buy from someone, to sell to someone? Well, that's not the point of functioning one of those big local self-governments, is it? We suggested you delete this, but here, I'll just tell you that you said you wouldn't, that you wouldn't accept the amendment for reasons because the legal norm is clear enough, understandable and precise and I answer to such strong arguments – our amendment is clear enough, understandable and precise and I'm surprised that it isn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55023	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55024	The same member, the same attitude, is only about you predicting in point 10) that Belgrade will implement measures and finance projects to boost birth in Belgrade's territory and that is, of course, fine, but the problem is that this must be done throughout Serbia. It is not an incentive of birth in Belgrade alone, and it is not good how you and the strategy you mention here, how you presented and how you planned it, because, you know, there is no normal reason for, say, a newborn child in Belgrade to get 100,000 dinars, and in Montenegro, there are 10,000 dinars. I guess it's even more of an interest to have that newborn child in black grass get three times as much money as a child in Belgrade, because that's where people move out, because children aren't born there. And not only in Crno Trava, unfortunately, when you start to visit Serbia, however much you boast about any successes of this government, etc., most municipalities in Serbia today are for many things Black Grass. We therefore think that we should certainly invest significant resources in encouraging birth, but in a fair way, in a socially responsible way. We also had concrete objections and suggestions when this law on family assistance was. Turns out, as soon as the law came into force, it wasn't good, because you're not just going to listen to extremely well-intentioned advice through these amendments. If you accept any of our good amendments, it becomes an integral part of the law, and by law you admire as much as you will, just do something that is in the interest of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55025	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55026	Thank you, Chairman. I think that everyone here today in the National Assembly, when it comes to the problem of birth in the Republic of Serbia, we have good intentions. Of course, good intentions must be followed by good deeds. And to have good deeds, you have to tell the truth, and if you haven't told the truth, I want to believe that you didn't want to lead the public astray with what you said as a claim. The fact is that up to the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in power for the first-born child in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, 39,000 dinars were singled out, from the republican budget, and today the figure is far higher and is 100,000 dinars. Also, we have brought a strategy to fight the white plague to increase the birth rate in the Republic of Serbia, and it is not only that strategy that should bring about a rise in birth, but everything else that we do as a government, led by Alexander Vukic as President of the Republic, which is the stabilisation of public finances, the return of those debts behind our interest left by members of the tycoon coalition, the return of debts at the level of the city of Belgrade, the repayment of those debts of over 400 million dinars, if you remember, in Belgrade, fellow Orlic, is so, yes, one billion and 200 million euros. So, all the millions and billions that have left us debt, we return and that's what citizens see and feel far safer today, to form a family first and therefore go towards having two, three or more children, which we need in the future. All that we're saying here, and by abuse of these speakers, you might get some cheap political point, but you can't convince the citizens that the debts don't come back, that wages and pensions don't grow, that jobs don't open and that we have more and more conditions, more quality conditions than in years to create families and that children in Serbia are born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55027	Replica? Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55028	It's really a little sad to listen to these demagogue stories that have nothing to do with the specific or the amendment or the concrete law. What we were listening to earlier has nothing to do with population policy, but with a populist story and how it does. What are you even talking about? You're saying you've brought a strategy, you want to raise the birth rate, encourage various material aids, etc. And that's good, and you have to work on it. But there's work to be done, not talk. Look, my people, visit Serbia, see how many families you have, how many children live in Serbia without electricity, how many children in Serbia don't have a third meal, how many children in Serbia don't have parents to give for lunch or prepare a piece of bread to eat on vacation. Guys, come on, talk a little bit about what you really are. Of course, everyone can say whatever they want, but I always find it interesting when a colleague who spoke earlier, who visited all possible parties, both G17 and Democratic, etc., and he has the most objections to how it was until the Progressive Party came and until he had all of his experience from the Democrats, the G17 and the others he had brought to them. So you say whatever you want, but the citizens of Serbia know how they live. We encourage you, while you are in power, to help as much as possible. We talked and talk about this law, family, that you won't change, where you trade with children by taking children from families because they don't have to let them eat, and then you give them to foster families and you pay them for it. Now, that's the Serbia you want to talk about now. We would like the same as you, to have roses blooming in Serbia, to flow honey and milk. And God forbid it is, but unfortunately, Serbia still has a very, very, very hard life.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55029	Right to replication, MP Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55030	You know what, I'm sorry that some golden age of the previous pay phone went by, so there's a thorny age for pulsism politics, where there's no room in Serbia today. I'm really sorry about that. But I'm glad that at the level of the city of Belgrade we were able to repay all the debts that the Gilas coalition and previous speakers have left us. I remind you, they took such good care of pregnant women, of maternity care, of children, that they left over 400 million dinars of debts that SNS had to pay back. Repeatedly, they left over a billion and 200 million debts at the Belgrade city level. It's these lovers of boards, of populism, of those who are very concerned about how children are going to live, of whether they have something to eat. They didn't worry about it while they were taking 19,000-euro travel expenses. That's not what they were worried about back then. At the time, they did not worry about what children in Serbia were going to eat. But, of course, they took care of themselves. The city of Belgrade today, compared to theirs, a golden period for them and for the city of Belgrade a stone age, has doubled the givings for children and that is what is true, that is what is true. Population is not that in that golden age, politicians and tycoons were issued for a firstborn child at the level of the Republic of 39,000 dinars, and today 100,000 dinars. It's not populism, it's reality in the Republic of Serbia. You can't do that with your pulsism, your attacks and your personal insults, mine or any of your SNS colleagues, you can't undo that. Citizens live better and feel better than they ever were. When it comes to who has changed how many parties, these parties today can only cry for those who have come out of them. From these parties, these parties remained today, from that last DS that I left in 2004, and I'm not ashamed to admit it, when I saw where Serbia was going, I said after a year "goodbye to the people". I don't want any part of it and I don't want any part of it. You've stayed with it, eager for boards of directors, eager for supervisory boards, eager for money. We don't care about money, and that's why we're here today, so we took responsibility for ourselves at the most difficult time for Serbia in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55031	The right to replica Serbian MP Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55032	The Honorable Chairman, who speaks of what, about honesty in the end. Someone who doesn't care about money, full of mouth money. I expect a replica, to get an answer - where's the money? Where's $50 million for utility services that hasn't been paid? Where's 2.7 million for the logo? Where is 400 million dinars for pregnant women, where is the billion and 200 million debt left in Belgrade? Gilas' activist, what kind of jilas activist? At the time, Gilas didn't even run the DS, and the question is whether he was a member at the time. And they're empty stories. And that's all to draw attention to it, we were members of boards of directors, committees, we're very sorry that we can't be a part of it today, we're very sorry that we can't take money from Serbian citizens today, we're very sorry. When it comes to my car, i.e. A car owned by my wife, Milice Filipovic, and about what the paper said, you know what, they didn't at least write about the banana bark case. Oh, we know who that's about. (The Verse of Radeta: The crusts of bananas are dangerous. I believe, believe, and I'm sorry it won't get into the stenogram, what you said was very dangerous. And these are the threats, as you now bring here in the Serbian Parliament to me. I guess they're dangerous banana barks. Right? (Verita Radeta: Well, have you ever slipped about banana peel?) Well, I don't know, some of your guys were skating about that crust. When it comes to that car, a case has been reported neatly to the police authorities. They're investigating it. I am quite sure that when the investigation is completed, and I believe in the police conducted today by Minister Stefanovic, because it works incomparably better and more efficiently than in that golden age for you, and thornily for the citizens of Serbia, I believe that it will show what it is, which is that, and we have determined absolutely everyone who was on that day on notice, that there was no dog, that no snow, no glaciers were. Just like that man fell on the banana bark, that's how the snow broke my car. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55033	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55034	According to Article 107, Mr. Veroljub Arsic. I'm shocked that you didn't react when this gentleman just started his debate. I understand that he has a need to be courted, to approach time and new parliamentary lists and so on, all I can understand, but that a man can say something like that here, come on, he's expected of anything, he doesn't know what he's saying, but you're here as chairman. If you don't know what he said, here, I'll remind you. He said, "Who about what, his mother about honesty?"
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55035	Radeta counterpart Filipovic started that sentence, but he did not finish. But you mentioned his mother. Right? So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. By amendment, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55036	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Capital Act. The amendments apply to the capital. That's why the capital is often mentioned. I would only remind you of what it was like before 2012. As SNS arrives, if something has reached a really good level, that's the social policy. We're talking about the city, but the laws are passed on a republican level. We passed a law last year that stimulates birth, which has an extraordinary stimulant. How? By once giving birth to a child of 30 and a few thousand, today 100 grand for the first child was a one - time help. For the birth of a second child on a two-year-old level, every month, so two years is given at 10,000 per month. For a third child for 10 years on a monthly level, 10,000 ten years is received, and for a fourth child, 18,000 at a monthly level for ten years. Well, that's how the responsible government works. That's the stimulation of birth, and that's what you have to say. That goes for the whole Republic. As for the departure of the population, especially young ones, it's not six years ago. On the contrary, the departure has been reduced. That's 20 years ago. We also have a minister without portfolios, who is really involved in demographics and birth-stimulating, so, indeed, all praise for this authority and its president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55037	Thank you. The People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? My colleague, Belačić, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55038	With my amendment, I propose to delete members 3 and new Article 8 paragraph 2 of point 11 of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Act. This article provides for the city of Belgrade to exercise control, realisation and dedicated use of funds transferred from Belgrade's budget to representative associations in culture, where it has acquired the status of independent artists, for which the city of Belgrade provides funds from the Belgrade city's budget for participating in the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance and contributions to health insurance under the law governing culture. The Serbian Radical Party considers it unacceptable for independent artists to be treated differently in Belgrade compared to local self-government. This legal solution has proved to be problematic in the previous period, since there have been a lot of delays in tax and contribution payments, which have caused major problems, especially in cases where independent artists needed urgent medical intervention, maternity or maternity leave or retirement leave in cases where pension contributions have not been paid to the end. That is why we believe that eradicating this member and transferring jurisdiction to the Ministry of Culture is an adequate solution. Also, unrelated to the amendment, but related to the subject, we believe that it is necessary to define more clearly the criteria by which someone can obtain the status of an independent artist and that such status should only allow those persons who are actively engaged in art, who have completed art colleges, that is, not their hobby, but their profession, and who in that profession achieve significant results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55039	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was filed by MP Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? My colleague Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55040	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act is a alignment with a series of laws that have been passed in the meantime. In particular, item 12 of the new article 8 is in line with the Law on Trade and the Law on Tourism. You're changing this member, because as you say, the city's jurisdiction in the applicable law was not clear enough. However, it was this very member of the law that introduced certain ambiguities and illogicalities. Why do I say that? The city of Belgrade is predicted to determine the type of goods and type of services that can be provided in temporary facilities placed on Belgrade's territory. We are all witnesses that during different holidays permits are issued and temporary facilities are being set up on public surfaces. We believe that such objects can be placed for a longer period of time, of course, where conditions allow and that they do not have to be typical. However, what you would ask, which is covered by this article, is – what kind of goods or what kind of service should be tied exclusively to Belgrade? Will, or what can be sold in Belgrade that cannot be sold in Novi Sad, Prokuplje, Nis etc. It is precisely because of the lack of clarity and incomplete formulation of this point of the Bill's proposal that we have requested by amendment its erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55041	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Boyic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55042	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a debate in particular on the law or more specifically on the draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act. The substance of the proposed changes and additions is contained in decentralisation by passing on significant powers to municipalities that have so far been exclusively in the city's jurisdiction. I fear that they are not strictly clear and precisely defined competences, both original and proposed, which in practice can lead to certain problems and concerns, especially at this initial stage until all of this has been stalked and crystallized and revived. Finally, a similar practice so far warns us. However, in addition to the amendments, some proposed solutions can be further improved and I have submitted an amendment before the SRS to Article 3. new Article 8(2) point 16. The bill, the word "bag" is replaced by the word "sub" with a very logical explanation why would waste prevention only apply to plastic bags? Doesn't it also come from plastic glasses, bottles, boxes, crates and other objects and packaging? When we are in this topic and in the jurisdiction that the city prescribes conditions for the management of municipal waste, as well as its disposal on the territory of the city of Belgrade, I must mention a single legal dump on the Sopot-Kosmaj road in the village of Menikuce, at the most beautiful locality at the foot of Kosmaj, and if you will say that this is a problem for the Ministry of Environment. This is more like an example in the future that there may be problems with the division of jurisdiction, especially where they are not strictly and precisely defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55043	Thank you. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55044	Thank you, Chairman. Article 3 The draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Act on which we are holding the debate today is proposed to amend the members of the 8th basic law. Article 8 of the basic law refers to the jurisdiction of the capital. The Serbian Radical Party is of the opinion that when representatives of authorities amend any existing law, the new text must be more quality than the previous one, and in that sense we have submitted this amendment. The Serbian Radical Party is proposing to take part in point 17. Moreover, the text of the law would be more quality than much more important that this change would create a commitment for the city of Belgrade to finance anti-urban protection and to establish a agricultural service. The importance of anti-urban protection is really too much to discuss. It's something that should really be put into the law as a priority. It is important to point out that there are also major problems in many units of local self-government when it comes to paying shooters. Every potential threat from the city is spent hours and hours by the launch ramps to protect the crops, objects and people. We also have cases that the failure of launch ramps that are not in a position to adequately respond and justify their role. We've had cases like this in recent times. However, the fees paid to them are more miserable, and these fees are received from the Republic through the Hydrometeorological Institute. Certain units of local self-government previously allocated funds for additional charges to shooters. However, this is not the case now because there is no legal basis for such separations. If they did something like that, they'd break the law. That is why representatives of the authorities should be heard when opposition MPs propose through amendments solutions that are in the interest of all citizens and that the amendments of the SRS are well thought out before they are rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55045	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55046	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the capital in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. new Article 8 paragraph 2. 19. The bill, the text - in part of the control over the application of measures prescribed by the city of Belgrade - is deleted with the reason that the city of Belgrade cannot prescribe specific control measures compared to those prescribed at the level of Serbia as a whole. The new bill announces a transfer to certain responsibilities from Belgrade to the city's municipalities. Every local self-government must have jurisdiction to justify its existence. In principle, this was also suggested to you by the President of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, that jurisdiction should be prescribed in the case of legalisation of objects, but that it is strictly prescribed what can be legalised and what is not and what is the price list for each type of legalisation. From the practice so far, it is what confuses us, not the impunity of the administration that has legalized few objects, while all of this has been told by Minister Mihajlovic that everything will be resolved as soon as possible and all in favour of the citizens of Serbia. We believe that decentralisation is important, both from the level of the Republic to the city of Belgrade and from the city of Belgrade to the city municipalities, but we are afraid that the application of this model will show a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty in functioning, which has also been demonstrated many times by practice. This bill will give municipalities greater authority, and they will be able to decide on certain things that have been taken away from them during the DS, all in order to sort out one man. You must not allow the same mistake to be repeated and that only one man decides everything in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55047	I thank my fellow Despotovic. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55048	I asked for the organisation and way of managing public transport of passengers in all modes of traffic to be regulated by the city of Belgrade in Article 3nd point 22, which provides for the organisation and management of public transport of passengers in all modes of traffic, is here, which is carried out on the territory of the city of Belgrade, to delete words – in all modes of traffic. I think Mr. Ruzic is also aware and will admit that the city of Belgrade should regulate public transport and that is actually public urban transport is the best formulation that should stand there. The city of Belgrade cannot regulate absolutely everything because it leads to a number of problems. Someone's gonna think it's supposed to be plane traffic to regulate, that there's no telling what else to do. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary, for example, for taxi transport to be regulated by law at the level of the Republic of Serbia because it has shown and would certainly be the best way and thus local self-government units would be exposed to incomparably smaller pressures. I argue that all authorities in the city of Belgrade have proved in the past tens of years that they are not able to organise this taxi transport adequately, especially because it is an unreasonablely expensive one. In Belgrade, there were numerous restrictions on the number of taxis, which is the opposite of the Constitution of Serbia, which guarantees every right to work, which meets certain conditions. For some unknown reason, however, every government developed, a taxi driver probably more than an elemental accident. Today, taxi transport, especially in Belgrade, is poorly organised. He is more expensive than in any other city in Serbia, although there is no excuse. Economic logic suggests that on a larger market and transport must be cheaper. However, transportation to Belgrade, a taxi transport, is two, three times more expensive than in other smaller towns of Serbia. It is twice as expensive as transport, for example in Novi Sad, not to mention other cities, such as Pančev, such as Zrenjanin, like many others, Nis and similar, many smaller cities in Serbia. All this tells us that this is not a good solution and a special problem is the Public City Transport Company in Belgrade, which has been sucking literally billions of dinars for years and years. You know, it's an abnormal situation that private people, who deal with public urban transport, are rich year by year and that they spread their fleet, while at the same time the public urban traffic company is in debt, that we're constantly having different affairs about purchases, sometimes buses, in Gilas' time of trolleybus, so we had an affair about the purchase of brakes, we had about the purchase of tyres, not to get into what happened to a whole series of accidents in public urban transport in Belgrade, that recently one private carrier pulled a whole contingent of new buses, which he imported from Turkey, until it was determined that the reasons for the whole series of accidents that happened to that new carrier. So there's a lot of negative what's going on. The transport's expensive. It's impossible to get to the cab. It's an area where crime and corruption are absolutely ruled out, and because of all this, we think it should be regulated in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55049	I thank my colleague Sarovic. On Article 3rd amendment with a correction, MP Filip Stojanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Filip Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55050	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Act. I asked for an amendment to delete item 23 in item 2 that discusses the sustainable development of housing in Belgrade's territory. First of all, this formulation means nothing and it is absolutely unnecessary to stand in this law. Construction and maintenance of residential buildings is privately owned. This matter is regulated by a special law, not only for the city of Belgrade, but for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government needs first of all to solve the problems that ordinary citizens face daily. There are such problems ahead of us, especially when it comes to legalising non-legislative objects. It will benefit ordinary citizens and the social community. There's no citizen who wouldn't do anything to bring his object, no matter what it's about, into legal flows. Bringing into the legal state of the facility gets to value, and sometimes it's a multiple higher value. For all these reasons, I have asked for the removal of the said member, because the law should only stand for what is most important. So I urge the representatives of the government to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55051	I thank my colleague Stojanovic. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Act. In view of this law, the most important thing is that what is seen from this is that the law is adopted for the reasons that certain provisions of the law relating to the competences of the main work are not sufficiently precise, are not clear enough and do not allow authorities in the capital to respond in the right way. This is mostly true, however, the problem with this new bill is that this new text of the bill also has provisions that are absolutely unclear. Some are illogical, even there are things that are contradictory to each other. What I'm talking about is especially about, when it comes to the municipal network, the reconstruction of the communal network, its construction, the price, etc. In one place, it is said in the law that the perpetrator of municipal activity is obliged to ensure the development, protection and maintenance of municipal facilities. I'm not sure this is the best, happiest solution, because practice like many times so far will deny these things. Of course, we all know that every country in the world, including the state of Serbia, has its capital. The capital is something special. The capital is usually the largest city in one country, although we know that there are different situations. There are many countries where the largest city is not the capital, but administrative seats are some other cities and this is brought for some strategic reasons. I therefore believe that this amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of the SRS, should be considered and accepted, because it will certainly improve the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55053	Thank you. The People's MP, Natasha Sp, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55054	Mr. Ruzic, this Article 8 where the city's responsibilities are listed is unarranged and in some parts is even contrary to the accompanying laws that are not in the procedure today. We Serbian radicals believe that soon there will be changes and additions to these laws, the Law on the Communist Police, the Law on Community Services and all others necessary to change in order to comply with this bill. But at certain points of this Article 8, these irregularities are such that they can cause new problems. When it comes to the removal of municipal waste, it was necessary to place municipal and other waste, because, in addition to communal, unfortunately, there have been such cases in the Belgrade city and in other cities in Serbia that other people's health hazards have occurred. That's one flaw. Also in this article, I don't know what the number of that point is, it doesn't matter, you say the city of Belgrade can, and it doesn't have to participate in providing funds for anti-building protection. By anti-urban protection law, yesterday we had a question addressed to the government, which was adopted in 2015, the units of local self-government are obliged to allocate aside from the republican budget funds for this, and where will you increase the protection of this agricultural land and all other goods in the largest city in Serbia, in the largest area, if no funds are provided for it? Not only should funds be provided for rockets, but the centre covering the city of Belgrade or if more centres are to be established, advance the most modern technology to protect both agricultural land and other facilities for life and work, which can and can be damaged in such attacks of the city. In the part concerning the protection of animals, pets and others, located in the Belgrade city, you are also unspoken. In addition to writing that the town of Belgrade is ageing and determining the space where they can move, you were not precise in the work of Belgrade City's jurisdiction, when it is meant to take action against those who abuse and kill animals in the worst possible way. We had so many horror videos from Obrenovac, Lazarec and other parts of the city of Belgrade where in the most savage way these animals were killed and I really have to do this time, even though I'm not a Belgrade girl, but also as someone who owns pets myself, to commend the people of the vet who did everything to solve over 600 such cases. But you can't put everything on these people who don't have enough equipment or enough people, they just have enthusiasm how to get rid of it. So, there's, uh, what my colleague Bojic mentioned about plastic bags, I don't know how you really thought about putting it in one spot when there's all the other junk that floats both on the rivers and that's on the coast, one river and the other. What is most important is that I will conclude, in addition to saying that the city of Belgrade is issuing permits to set boats and other objects on the banks of the river, and that you had to put in that member that inspection supervision in illegally built objects is precisely in a protected area, such as the houses of Tomislav Nikolic, something that you should first of all deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55055	Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55056	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike many Belgrade citizens or call them "Belgrades", we who do not live in Belgrade sometimes prefer our capital, rather than those who live in it, stay, and some of them manage Belgrade. This love for its country, this love for Belgrade, first of all, came from what we want our capital to look nice, to be arranged. It is more important for us to regulate the state than to rule it. That goes for local self-government, that goes for cities. But you, my fellow Belgraders, don't appreciate yourself, don't appreciate your city enough, don't appreciate the efforts of past generations, don't appreciate Branko Pesic either. If he hadn't built the Mostar loop and Gazel, I'm afraid the skeleton would have helped us cross. What Đilas did, it is not nearly as practical as what Branko Pesic did. You don't appreciate yourself enough. You don't have that kind of love that the village population has. Over Bravna, recently there was a story about his grandson driving his grandfather across the river by a tractor and not being able to take him to the doctor. Through the Brna village population, he's going to defend the state, to run to Koshare, Paštrik. The rural population experiences the country quite differently in the way our ancestors did. I invite you to renew this kind of love for your country, for your city, for your local self-government in the way that the village population has for both the village and the cities and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55057	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Belačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55058	With my amendment, I suggest that Article 6 be deleted. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Act. The amendment refers to Article 20(3) of the existing law, which defined that the Secretary of the City Assembly should have completed the Faculty of Law with a professional examination. We believe that this formulation should remain even after the amendments and additions of the Law, because in the proposed amendments and additions this issue is complicated by stating that the Secretary of the City Assembly must be a person who has acquired a higher education from the scientific field of legal science, which has achieved 240 Esp points, completed basic master, specialist, professional studies, etc. Our view is that the Faculty of Law, with a professional exam, covers everything that is provided for the proposed member and we consider this formulation to be quite complicated, unnecessary. We object, therefore, to the Bologna Declaration. We think that it is unnecessary in law to list the number of points that are achieved in basic studies because it is the same, and that this is an overly complicated solution where we have not yet written which exact law school is required to complete, which you probably left out because of the fact that many in the ranks of ruling parties, such as President Tomislav Nikolic, are not certain themselves which college they have completed. Given that the Secretary of the City's Assembly is involved in professional affairs relating to the calling and holding sessions of the Assembly and its working bodies and manages administrative affairs related to their work, every good lawyer who has a working experience, and not only completed college, is able to adequately carry out this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55059	Thank you, colleagues. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. A bill of this law. What I'm saying is that Belgrade is not only the capital of those people living in it, so Belgrade is the capital and all of us living in other parts of Serbia, and we're equally proud of that city, so I don't think there's any dilemma in any man. But what matters to people who don't live in Belgrade is the next fact. So we're not so interested in whether this or that street has asphalt, sewerage, etc., I guess that's the thing about the Belgraders, for us from the inside, it's more important something else. At this point, we have a situation not to know whether Belgrade has or does not have a railway station. We can see that the bus stop will soon be moved due to the construction of "Bjegrada na Voda". Of course, I don't mind building "Belgrade on Water", I even think it's a good investment, no matter how many of the parties, who previously ruled Belgrade, are attacking it. But I know that people, for example, have a problem, traveling by train from the interior, from Nothing, from southern Serbia and other parts, are just literally now they're cut off from all communications and they can't travel by train. So this train station, bus station and other infrastructure traffic is something that concerns all of Serbia's citizens, and as far as I can see, nothing is being done, at least something concrete on that plan. I haven't heard from anyone yet what's going to happen to these things, and believe that's what many citizens of Serbia are interested in, especially those of insiders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55061	I thank my colleague Saviæ. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55062	The topics are important, ladies and gentlemen, which we have launched today. With regard to all that is done in the city of Belgrade, of course, issues related to both railway stations and bus stations and the construction of infrastructure and the provision of adequate municipal services are all extremely important issues. About the train station, we seem to be talking about the city of Belgrade in this room when we discussed some other laws. We said that of course there is, there's as many and in use as it is a long time ago. Bus, 2020. This is the official information you will hear from people who are looking after the city of Belgrade today. In 2020, the site of New Belgrade, Block 42. By the way, the famous theme, I don't think it was, literally there was no city government that didn't deal with the subject and these plans. However, what is certain is that those people who are delegates to the SNS and on this issue will confirm the rule that it is about people who are announced and planned, publicly spoken, in the end meet. You will see this, for example, bus stops in New Belgrade. It's going to be bigger, and more spacious, and more beautiful, far better equipped, so if you want to be in a better location than we've had so far. It will certainly be much more convenient for traffic to take place there and under these conditions, but most importantly, we'll see it all together with our own eyes, I have absolutely no doubt about it. This has proven on the basis of countless examples so far. We were also talking about infrastructure. Here, one of the current things, the current topics, the data for you, will show that we are seriously considering these things and that when we talk about them and based on Borca, or 150,000 people living in that part of Belgrade, we will get a sewer. So, you know, it's a current topic, a project of the current city government, and it's also something that we'll all be able to see together, just like this bus stop, besides the Sava Square. You know how much dust is raised every time someone as smart and brilliant as this Bastac and his crew, otherwise the batins' crew, that you know about, who's engaged in the abuse of municipal money directly in the Old Town where, unfortunately, people living in that part of Belgrade, he's in a position to ask questions and all by paying some interesting invoices and strange accounts of different organizations and associations of picturesque names through which he organizes those batinists, who, after being harassed, literally, that there are no metaphorical expressions here, harassing workers throughout the capital, when they appear in the center of the city, and then those people are dragged down from the machines, when they're driven, they're accompanied by Bastac those he hired in this way, that you know who I mean. The same thing it does on Calemegdan, related to gondola, is also related to those city streets that will be in the form of pedestrian zones or parts of pedestrian zones, the same when it comes to Sava Square. But these are the things with which, when they were at the level of the proposal, the topic, which is the idea, we came before the citizens, before the Belgraders specifically, ahead of the previous elections. For those plans, we asked for support. For those plans, those ideas and those suggestions we got support. And what is being realized today, therefore, is clear proof that we were serious and that what these Anglo-Sanxons would say, what we promise to the citizens, we deliver. So, it's not about the colorful pictures, it's not about the nice posters that are as good as the election campaign. We're serious about these things and we're serious about them. And all that your MP group has been reluctant to support and says it considers good for the development of Belgrade, all of these are one after another living evidence that this is what I tell you. And this Belgrade on the water, which, by the way, is also one of the things that every city government may have talked about in the last 15 or more years, but let's remember during whose mandate this project has really started, during whose mandate this project has developed to this extent that everyone can see it naked today. And this Gilas, who is talking about it all the worst today, who is saying that, imagine, the most beautiful part of Belgrade has been given there to some investor, though, nonsense all after each other, nothing has been given to anyone, of course, but this most beautiful part of Belgrade, which was once a mockery, where rats and snakes lived, and everything we talk about here, was not worth it, was not important to Dragan Gilasu, or so much to walk there, to see what could possibly be a bit of a break-up or clean-up. The cleaning of this Sava amphitheater, you ask any man, may he be the most concerned, the most cruel supporter and Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic, but let the citizen be ordinary, therefore, someone who lives here will say, "You know what, that's good, thank God that someone remembered to arrange it, to make it look like something." But Dragan Gilas won't admit it. In 2011, he thought it was all a great idea and that Belgrade should be working on water. Besides, it's not like the ban bada advertised in the white world, for example, in Cannes that year. That was great, but you know what the problem was, he was never able to do anything. That was a story for him, anyway, that's not what I'm saying, that's what Dragan Gilas claims. You have publicly published information that, in such a pleasant, relaxed atmosphere, it was boasting in front of the US ambassador at the time that what he's talking about Belgrade's development, that what he's advertising as some kind of project, that it's more marketing. Well, that's how I assessed Gilas Dragan. I said – it's more marketing, it's not serious. Don't take it so literally and literally. And you see, for us, what has been made public, for which we have sought support from the citizens, and then we have received support, it is an obligation. And this Belgrade on the water, building infrastructure, so, and the opportunity for that infrastructure that, for example, in Borca, I mentioned to you, they never had, we never had, we provided, but to end those bypasses and squares that will be truly magnificent. We'll all see that together very soon. You mentioned that people who usually come to Belgrade are more loved by the capital than by some who were born in Belgrade. Mr. Risticevic mentioned something similar. I don't think it has anything to do with where a man comes from as much as he has to do with what that man is, which he's specifically talking about. Here, Bosko Obradovic isn't from Belgrade either, is he? And he came to Belgrade and got everything he could get here. He was paid here and paid out of the budget, from the people's money, and he got a chance to make up for his trip, and when he didn't travel, it's enough just to sign here and agree that, for example, he came to the meeting, and we all know he didn't, so he's gonna pay for it, and he's got an apartment here in the elite part of the capital, and yet he's back in town, and how does he thank him, and how does he repay everything he's got? By the way, a man comes out nicely on television, coded one, right, Mr. Risticevic? Distribution, redistribution, we broadcast for re-emission via Ljubljana, and we don't know where else. There a man in, as is popular today, calls for city transport not to be paid. So, the man says -- we have to take down both the evil Alexander Vukic and the disgusting SNS that he can't come up with, both at the level of the Republic and at the level of the capital. How? Watch out for that brilliant idea, by stopping paying for city transport. Otherwise, nothing brilliantly new came up by Bosko Obradovic, he just seemed the happiest to say such a thing in 2019, and he also had the opportunity to learn from other Vedeta opposition thoughts in our country. Zoran Zivkovic, who was in Nis, so he urged about two decades ago not to pay the bills, and it ended phenomenally, by the hunches of all those who had cheated and obeyed him, there was nothing wrong with Zivkovic. Thus, Bosko Obradovic will certainly not run out of any of his new expensive suits that have only been down since he joined in with Dragan Djilas, who, by the way, had nothing good to say until just 10 months ago. You remember what he said about Gilas, so he broke it. He probably broke it because of those nice suits, ties, cars and other things that came in a package with new political brains. Now Bosko Obradovic is trying, like Zivkovic once, to deceive other people, so that they risk being punished and being in Belgrade tomorrow, in their city, less and less. Because because someone won't pay for transportation, and many unfortunately don't pay for it today, we don't have the means, for example, that remont bus that other MPs from your MP group were talking about to do even better than we do, and we're doing our best, really, to buy even better buses, and that's what we were talking about today. Of course we need more. We've got a great number of new buses, and you'll see them in September on the streets of the city. And we want more, we need, of course. From where? Well, among other things, paying for tickets, I guess that's a common interest. Then comes a smart man who stopped by Belgrade and doesn't like him at all, welcome everyone, but doesn't pay him back the way Bosko Obradovic returns. Then that someone who lives here, who rides by bus, and Bosko Obradovic doesn't ride by bus, we all know what kind of car parades around the National Assembly, that someone tomorrow won't have city transport, and not just city transportation. So it's a matter of responsibility and it's a question that primarily somewhere on the level of some of your insides, so to speak, every man breaks himself. As much as he appreciates and respects the city of Belgrade or any other city, how much he appreciates and respects his fellow citizens or neighbors, how much he values and respects his country and his country. How much they appreciate and respect both this Obradovic and those others who are able to harass workers who are able to block the development of the capital, they have shown enough. If any of these people ever had any of these things really mattered, do you think they wouldn't be dealing with these things whenever they had the chance and they had so much? Wouldn't Dragan Gilas, if he were really worried about anything and he was so honest about the Republic Square, sometimes he remembered doing something in that Republic Square, and it's never nothing? As far as everyone's head is concerned, why bother us, we can't pass, we can't walk, you've narrowed it down, we can't get the jeep in, today anyone who passes that part of the city makes a selfie, it's so nice. Well, Gilas, I'm sure, when he walks out there, he fires some selfies, there are some who praise these things on their social networks. What they didn't do for Kosančić's Wreath, Toplicin, everything that others are, which bothers them today, but I say, if they were really interested, they'd show how it should have been done, if we didn't have to do this, and now we're not going back to city transport and what they were doing when they were on occasion, and about right now, to supply and bus, and tram. I don't know if there was one thing they did that wasn't an affair. One thing I did, when it came to that, was confess in the City Hall, about what we're talking about right now, and I admitted that I was wrong in one place. You remember when Gilas and his crew published theirs, I don't remember how much, point 30, 20, it doesn't matter, mostly I said it was all nonsense and they never did anything on any of the topics mentioned, they won't. I have to admit, I was wrong. One of those points there is the protection of the Serbian Cyrillic letter. Dragan Gilas, turns out, was still dealing with the issue. You know when and how? During a public call to purchase the famous BusPlus system. I must admit, here, I confess to you, Gilas was then engaged in the protection of the Serbian language and our letter. The international invitation, so characterised, appeared overnight only in Serbian, written in Cyrillic, declared only here, by a local in Belgrade, was such a huge international call, and no one from abroad could understand what it was, but even to get the documentation to participate properly, because the documentation was issued exclusively in paper, in Serbian, Cyrillic. He had to come to anyone who participated to take it personally, so you can see how fair and market-oriented this job was and how much, by proving to be a disaster for the city of Belgrade, had nothing to do with sloppyness, and I would say that it was going to be done just as it was done. Such a relationship is not just for us today, that it is for people who are deeply dishonest, who are not interested in any of this materially, nor in the appearance of the square, nor in the development of Beograd on Water, nor in urban transport, nor in the construction of municipal infrastructure. So, it's about people who were always interested in just one thing, with Gilas, you know the already famous 500m euros in income for his companies. That's it, the beginning and the end of every story. Interests, desires, motivations, whatever, with this Dragan Gilas and the team that's following him today, including these geniuses who think you shouldn't pay for city transportation, but so it's on someone else's back, that the punishment is borne by someone else and the consequences of someone else's suffering. What do the citizens think about that? Luciani, therefore, is not a Belgrade issue, has shown them that it will be able to end exclusively one-digitally, it is only a matter of which percentage, whether it will be 3%, or whether it will be able to accumulate over 5%. But I think it's much more up-to-date what we see in Belgrade today, in their famous umbrella, there it is at 50 meters from the entrance to this building, you know how many people have defiled daily, 20 percent, not the percentage, but the soul. Twenty people have been through, so much interest and so much support for these people, so much is believed to them, when they do as Gilas, Jeremic, Obradovic, Bastic and similar to them. You know what, it's not the best thing. They've shown that they can outdo themselves in that way. In the end, that tent was disarmed, and no one knows where it is anymore. As far as Belgrade's perspective is concerned, be assured while we are doing as seriously as we have done so far, and while we are always trying to be better than ourselves and to get better, it will be only better for Belgrade and Belgrade citizens, as well as for the whole of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55063	Thank you. The word is Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, I sign of course everything Mr. Orlic said and I just want to add a few words to his presentation that inspired me. History remembers the builders and remembers the destroyers. This law that is passed is a construction law and can thus be defined. The destroyers defined themselves on October 5th when they raised their hands to the cultural and historical heritage of their own people, when they burned down this significant home, when they destroyed the RTS building, and today they continue in this tradition, destroying construction fences, destroying traffic signs. But as Mr. Orlic says, there's something they built. Until recently, they built a circus tent here, and it seems to me that the kids in the park were happy until they realized that this tent was different from the circus in just two things, there's no audience, they only have a dot with clowns and some monkey, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55065	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55066	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, no matter what Mr. Orlic mentioned me twice, I will use group time. So, Mr. Orlic, you just think that you have N1 television, the capital has no N1 television and that Bosko "dveriored" and Mr. Cosic faced each other and what they said – good evening in front of the Belgrade studio, does not mean that it is your television. Officially according to what I got from REM, and based on Adria news that owns N1 television, this TV is registered in Luxembourg, not yours, and allegedly the programme that broadcasts – Good evening from the Belgrade studio, broadcasts from Ljubljana. That's the answer I got. Therefore, I expect that Bosko "two-sale" and Mr. Cosic Jugoslav, I expect, because they claim to broadcast from Ljubljana, next time they do a little yodeling in decks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55067	Thank you, colleague Rističević. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is a colleague of Rističević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55068	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have in Belgrade and the circuses about Mr Krlić. The kid's a tent for such big circus guys. When something is being built in the country, and you have to keep an eye on it, and you have to make sure that Belgrade is supposed to be nice. The Belgrade population mostly comes from the village, but I am so not to exaggerate. At this point, we have more houses in the villages than residents. We need to make sure that this population we have is evenly distributed. We need to build infrastructure and conditions there. We don't have to have halls, stadiums, theaters and so forth, but at least the basic infrastructure not to step over the cabin, even if it were from that reef asphalt, untethered roads, that it was a little neat and that people could get to the main cities of their municipalities. I think that when something is built in the country, they all come out, they bring in lambs, pigs, they're the fruit of cake. So it's not squid, it's mussels, it's pigs and lambs, so I say the fruit of the cake. When something is being built in Belgrade, it's amazing for us. We can't believe that when something in the country is built, we kiss the builder's hands. It is the same population in Belgrade that came from the village. We can't believe that this kind of love isn't built, built, built, but disturbed. Come on, they don't have to take out pigs, lambs, they don't have to take out a bunch of beer to builders and so on, but they don't have to harass them and beat them, they have to defend them. There's a blanket next to that square while it's being built, a blanket waiting, a blanket watching these ninjas look over, it's amazing for us. It's probably the same man who came from the village who decided to defend the right to build. You don't just have Bastac, don't forget, it's unheard that the former mayor, better said "stealer" Dragan Gilas, has the strength to manage the city, in which God knows what he didn't build, comes out to rip off the signs, removes the fences and so on and prevents the builders from building. For those of us living in the country, it's incomprehensible, unexpected. We don't understand why Mr. Bastic, why Mr. Bosko Obradovic, why the newly arrived Borko Stefanovic, who came from Novi Sad to Belgrade, changed his name, changed his residence, just to change the sex. We don't understand why the Belgrade police and the municipal police don't bring justice to the gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55069	Thank you, colleague Rističević. By amendment, MP Mirko Krlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55070	All this is true of what Mr. Risticevic said, but I will take the opportunity to commend them to the Alliance for Serbia and these Protestants at least in something. On that very 13th April, when they made their largest gathering in Belgrade, the largest opposition event, as they call it, was played the Red Star game – Radnički, which decided the championship. After more than a decade, you had a real sports atmosphere in Star Stadium, cheerleading, people with family, kids, no problems, no hooligan moves, and you know why? Because all the bastards and alleys were in protest, that's what's good and that's what's wrong. I suggest that whenever an important sports match is played in Belgrade, an important sports event, be held in order to save at least that part of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55071	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55072	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with associates, in the draft law that lies ahead of us, you have proposed in Article 7 that a new member of the 20th be added behind Article 20a, which provides that the City Assembly educates the Committee on Plans in accordance with the law governing spatial planning and building of buildings, that in cases where certain urban plans have been found to be carried out by the City Municipality for its territory, the City Municipality educates the Commission for Plans, with one third of the Commission members appointed on the proposal of the City Assembly. I agree here. I do not agree that there should be a 3rd position and, in this sense, my amendment is also a correction, because the 3rd position you have suggested that all of the planning documents set out in Article 2 of this article, after public insight, be agreed with the Commission on the plans of the Belgrade City Assembly on the compliance of the detailed regulation plan with the higher order plan, or with the law governing spatial planning and building of buildings. I really don't see the need or the position 2 where any of the city's municipalities is ever approved to work and make plans with such a methodology, that it is mandatory to have one-third of the commission appointed by the city's assembly on board. Then I don't understand what that third of the members of that committee should be doing. If that third member is not in charge of precisely keeping this account, which is subsequently added without reason to point 3. whether these plans adopted are in line with the plan of detailed regulation of the higher order, then indeed such authorisation should not even be transferred to the municipalities of the city. It is absolutely pointless to duplicate one procedure and thus fully slow down the adoption of urban plans only. It's just really logical and legal totally in collegiate with each other. If there is no confidence that these thirds fulfill their task and make sure that these plans are consistent with the higher-ranking plan, then I really do not see the need for them to be participants in all of this, then simply let the commission do so, in its opinion, to educate the city’s or congregation of the city’s municipality. If we are already going with attitude 2 and such a legislative proposal, then it is quite logical that attitude 3 is deleted from this law, simply not only implies that this plan of the lower order must be agreed, but this third of the members absolutely implies the obligation of supervision, control and agreement to be with the plan of the higher order and, frankly, the statute of the city of Belgrade, can even be selective to that extent, to carry out the assessment that city municipalities have services that can be dealt with properly without jeopardising the plans, meaning they are not obliged to pass it on to all city municipalities, so to this extent it can be done if there is a suspicion that some of the city municipalities have no professional place to do so. Do not question the experience, knowledge, engagement, will and respect of the law of those people who have been working on these jobs for decades and have experience, and therefore we are slowing down the speed that these plans can be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55073	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55074	Thank you, Chairman. The intensity isn't really about to double or be. Naturally, to better identify what the priorities are in the field of designing plans in its territory, consent is, above all, necessary for the hierarchy of spatial plans, as it says in the article, and I think it is important to separate what units of local self-government that must make that decision and what are urban municipalities. The city municipalities unfortunately do not have the status of the unit of local self-government in this domain and therefore this agreement is necessary and, of course, what it says in Article 7 is that, as you have stated, all the planning documents of Article 2 of this article, after one insight, the agreement of the Commission on the plans of the Belgrade City Assembly on the compliance of the plan of detailed regulation with the plan of a higher order, or with the law, and we know what law that is, which provides spatial planning and building of objects. The presence of a third of the delegates of the City Assembly, in my opinion in no way, is either a duplication, nor aggravating the procedure itself. I think it is good to be monitored by the city of Belgrade, which is its own to finally make a decision, that is, to agree on the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55075	Thank you, Minister. Replica, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55076	Thank you, Chairman. To be honest, I think it's a double job, and if it was an intensities to have people in town hall territory, then it was better for jobs when it came to making plans in the city commission, incorporating up to one-third of the city hall representatives, and then it would be a far faster procedure than in this way. I'm really undermining it once again, and I totally agree with you that it arises precisely from this problem, which we should seriously think about, that the city's municipalities, at least those outside the city's core, will be restored to the status of local self-government, which would make many of these things go beyond, and simply that degree of responsibility and knowledge that people who operate in these municipalities and who are elected there in power, take advantage of in a very good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55077	Thank you. According to the amendment, he has a colleague named Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55078	I'd like to say, I support this attitude 3, precisely because I see surveillance and control here. That's what they talk about very often, they say, that's what we lack in law enforcement, regulations and everything else. So that vertical and it won't slow down, it'll only contribute to quality and responsibility and reduce corruption, crime and everything else that we have big problems with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55079	Thank you. Comrade Komlenski, have you answered again for the word after the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55080	There's not much room for a replica. I disagree, of course, with my colleague Jokic. The issue of centralisation and verticals and maximum controls should exist in other things, but we should be fully aware then that when it comes to local self-government, even if it is defined as Belgrade's city, it has a completely different executive function. If in this way we are going to think that this is necessary and necessary and we are burdened in every situation with the possibility of something that should be dealt with by law enforcement authorities and that we are pre-arranged by this way of functioning, then urban municipalities that do not have the status of local self-government should be translated into administrative and technical units and we simply do more work, so that, if that is an assessment, that this is the only way to prevent corruption or the wrong use of authority by local self-government authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55081	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, when it comes to the capital, according to Mr. Savic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, Belgrade is the capital of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Belgrade is connected to a number of cities on various grounds. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, one question: when will the Ministry of Construction and Traffic and your Ministry, as well as the city of Belgrade, finally open the traffic of Beovoza from Belgrade to Pancheva and back? It is known that several years ago, a loan from Russia amounting to 42 million dinars, a reconstructed Pancevo-Belgrade railway, or Belgrade-Pancevo, and that until then, until the reconstruction began, Beovoz was being trafficked on the Belgrade-Pancevo-Vojilovica line. However, 12,000 citizens, Mr. Ministers, students, workers and students, are currently using traffic and coming to Belgrade and therefore asking you to ask this question across the city of Belgrade and over the city of Panchev, to establish traffic and enable our citizens to safely arrive and on time, not to bother at a distance of 12km.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55083	Thank you, colleague Jojic. National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55084	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that Bosko Obradovic and Jugoslav Ćosic are already yodeling, from Ljubljana. Mr. Orlic, you don't have N1 television, she allegedly re-emissions the programme from Ljubljana, and thus you are denied in Belgrade for revenue. There's a broadcast fee. There are various taxes and taxes that the media pays. There are contributions to SOKOJ, where it pays certain music rights, but most of the musicians from Belgrade. None of that N1 TV pays. She considers herself her founder, and probably the real founders of Solak, Gilas, Petreus and the team. They think of themselves as cross-border television, and they think of us as fools. Those of us who were on N1 TV. I didn't know New Belgrade was Ljubljana. How Jugoslav Ćosic would not have done it either, and I suppose he'd really like to yodel, like in the deck. So that's not even a little Kekec would have imagined. As he imagines joining the New Belgrade of Ljubljana, Saint Peter knows that. I believe that once Ljubljana used industrial New Belgrade, the whole of Serbia, etc. But it is unacceptable to lose revenues like Belgrade because Yugoslavia Ćosic, Solak, Petreus and Gilas decided to say that the programme is re-emitting from Ljubljana and that they are not domestic media, that they are not media service providers. And if you sue them, you can't get them, because they're not registered in Serbia as a media service provider and you can't exercise your rights or a lawsuit. So you're losing some income. My proposal is now to bring order into the media along with the state authorities. So, freedom of the media in Serbia is so much that, for example, N1 television, which is not registered, broadcasts the programme. So much for the freedom of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55085	Thank you, colleague Rističević. Replication to the presentation of colleagues Risticevic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We actually understood each other. I fully agree with you, Mr. Risticevic, when it comes to this note. It's proof of one terrible dictatorship. It is proof of such a terrible and unbearable dictatorship, that I am sure that anyone who looks at Serbia in the domain of media freedoms that you have spoken of now can only cry bitterly. It's so heavy, it's such a terrible dictatorship, that television can function the way you explained it. I don't know if I can go anywhere else in another country in the world, dictatorial, democratic, whatever you want. And as a rule, you've noticed well, the televisions that content of your program, I don't know if they've ever tried to at least work and prepare a program in a way that's different from being directly against Alexander Vukic, whatever he thinks, do, speak, Serbian Progressive parties, parliamentary majority, absolutely all of whom Solak and Gilas face as their not political opponents, but literally enemies. It's a terrible dictatorship when all of us can do it absolutely. And of course, to be amongst the breaking news every day, among those to whom their organized haranga will be broken, and other MPs, and what we are saying here today, will certainly be in their news. I have no doubt that's the case. How many terrible dictatorships there are in this country and daily newspapers and their famous Sundays, where it is only a question not whether you will be on the front page, you will be safe, but whether of the 56 pages available will be dedicated to you 55 or also to the one on which the ads are. It's the only dilemma that's being set up here, but it has to do with what you mentioned, I don't know if you did it on purpose with copyright in the domain of the music program. You know for these famous cartoonists who simply can't live with themselves when they make some cartoon that they show us in the worst possible way, that this is a terrible dictatorship, and nobody looks back on it, so they can't forgive themselves for not being as cruel and convincing as they think they are when they're not even talking about it, and cartoonists. These people are also involved in the music industry business, somewhere, about the end of the previous year, just at a time when they were showing us as Hitler, Goebbels, you know how they were showing Alexander Vukic and us here, one of those famous cartoonists advertised on the Radio of Belgrade, and that, imagine PGP RTS on Radio Belgrade, all the state houses advertised by a single music disc with which the gift of illustrations goes, a calendar that was painted by a cartoonist who deals with only Alexander Vukić and us all day. You know, Mr. Risticevic, that's proof of how terrible dictatorship is in this country. And as it was at the time of Gilas, I'm not going to say anything, I'm just going to ask everyone to look at this, in 2011, this report was signed by Verica Barac, and it says everything about Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55087	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55088	Thank you, Chairman, for giving me your word. In fact, I would like to speak very briefly, while my colleagues from Belgrade provide information about what all the current authorities in Belgrade have done, about the results in each municipality of the city or suburban region in which the SNS results are certainly high. I want to say what happens at the same time in the capital. The amendment was submitted by MPs of the SDS and the People's Party, who boycotted the work of the Assembly came into this building and submitted the amendment on 22 May at 09.56 minutes. Since they are not in the room today to explain these amendments, which has been going on for months now, the only thing I can conclude is that they are, in fact, boycotting parliamentary dialogue. They boycott a debate in parliament that is probably the most important part of the work of a national MP. These MPs wanted to make their contribution by submitting this amendment despite what, I must say, and daily helping citizens solve problems, but in the park and in the tent. These are not state bodies or institutions. One, in fact, who Zoran Zivkovic gave a passport to pass through the free zone was able to address these MPs and discuss very important topics with them. According to the amendment, they may raise another tent in the park, since they are constantly talking about some parallel parliament because they do not want to participate in the work of the National Assembly which is legitimate, and then there, they will probably report on the work, at least once every three months. Finally, I agree with the Government's view that the amendment should be rejected for the reason that the proposed solution, therefore the solution given in the bill, is in line with other members of the law, which is also related to the Law on Local Self-Government. In the Law on Local Self-Government, we can see that the provisions of the laws relating to the President of the Municipality are also applicable to the mayor, i.e. the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, which applies to the municipal council, will also apply to the city council. Therefore, the logical solution given in this bill, in the context of amendments and additions, and such a solution should be supported, and the amendment should also be rejected for all the reasons that I have cited both professional and other reasons that I have just spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55089	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP Studenka Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55090	Thank you, Your Honor. I fully support what counterpart Zaric Kovacevic said and I will rely on her presentation. You know, hypocrisy shown by MPs who boycott parliament's work is amazing. These amendments serve exclusively to leave a picture of how they are allegedly interested in the laws we are making in the interest of Serbian citizens. Neither are they interested in Serbian citizens, nor are they concerned about the well-being of their people and prove it in continuity and with their behaviour and statements they make for the media and the procedures they carry out in the capital. What does it look like to us to do, and they camp, we build, they crash, we develop the earth, they scale up? How else do you call this behavior, except it's a classic mockery for Serbian citizens? They also played those who voted for them because they chose them to fight in parliament for the interests of their voters, not in the parks, not in the tents, or in the cafes. A typical example of hypocrisy was also given by MP Radojićic, called Ken. Be careful, he publicly promised Igor Juric, a man who, after the tragic death of his child, dedicated his life to the fight against monsters who rape and kill children, that by his vote in parliament he would support the introduction of a life sentence for such atrocities. He didn't show up, nor did he support it. He trampled a word, and all for the sake of obedience to Gilas, Jeremiah, Obradovic. Today we are discussing the capital that devastated the hypocrite Gilas with his associates. Why did Gilas's listeners who submitted these amendments not come to explain them, to know if they knew what Gilas had spent the money he had taken from the citizens of Belgrade by misusing the mayor's position? I'll tell you, they know, but they're hypocrites. The amendment should be rejected because it cannot be implemented in this law. I don't know where the applicants of the amendment were when we discussed the Law on Local Self-Government? They were probably discussing a division of functions in a party that Aleksic sold to Vuk Jeremic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55091	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55092	Thank you, Chairman. In the spirit of this debate so far, I will make very brief observations. There are more problems here when it comes to this amendment. The first problem is – where are the amendment promoters? So where is Djurisic Marko, where is Aleksic Miroslav, where is Konstantinović Nenad, where is Goran Bogdanovic, where is Zdravko Stankovic? We have not otherwise seen this Zdravko Stankovic in this term in this House. What better things do they have, and what kind of boycott is it, anyway, if we can call it that, when they regularly submit amendments, and on the other hand, say they boycott the sessions of the National Assembly? I can't understand that. There is another problem when it comes to the very signing of these amendments. We have another example of false representation. It says here for these MPs that they belong to some kind of SDS. I guess that's the Social Democratic Party of Tadic. Again, we've heard in the media that there's been some kind of unification or union of the former DS, in advance, a failed project. It is now back to the Social Democratic Party as a single Democratic Party. In any case, I now chair you, I would like to draw attention to that in the coming amendments. When it comes to the amendment itself, a classic example of cosmetic amendments. So, here, they are changing the current article 28, or part of Article 28, where they are said to say, “at least twice a year, ” they change in words:“ At least once every three months. ” Now if a man asked them why they wrote it, why exactly three months, why didn't they put in a month or two months or once a year, anyway, they wouldn't know what to say. So there's absolutely no argument in that sense we wouldn't be giving, except now I have to ask a question where suddenly she's gone that the mayor and the city council won't have to file a report anymore, etc.? So, they've broken our ears here by telling us that in this way we've abolished the mayor's and city council's obligation to report on the work of the city's Parliament, and they're admitting that there's this kind of obligation, as there is twice a year, but, well, they've come to their sense of why it should be only twice a year, why it shouldn't be once in three months. So this is about that they didn't have any real objections when it comes to this law. Not to go back to the part that tried to criticise the urgency of the procedure, I don't know, lack of public debate, etc. This is one, let me say, hypocritical amendment that needs to be rejected and supported by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55093	Thank you, colleague Markovic. By amendment, MP Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55094	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, about the relationship between the part of the opposition camping in a beautiful pioneer park that is so beautiful thanks to this city government that has invested money, time and effort to reconstruct it and make it so beautiful, as it is, one thing is very important here to point out. They've been trying for two years to get into the National Assembly of Seeds of Chaos and Madness. When the chaos was not accepted in the National Assembly, they decided to try to get on the street. When the citizens said no, we don't want chaos; they tried to do something in the park. When it was not received in the park, they decided to put their circus on the wagon and go on a journey through Serbia, to try to accommodate the chaos in Serbia. Since chaos, disorder and madness in Serbia will never be accepted, because in Serbia it never passed, because Serbia is a country of normal and decent people, such will never see this assembly hall again, but it is a pity for the citizens of Serbia that such people who are not interested in the debate on the capital, who are not interested in the discussion of the Tian law, who are not interested in the future of our children, who are not interested in the debate on the report on Kosovo and Metohija, which is absolutely nothing about the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, such people are not boycotting the salary. They do not boycott the submission of the amendments and do not boycott the salary they receive from the budget filled by all Serbian citizens. It is good for citizens to see it and that citizens will know it in the right way in the elections and to evaluate that those people who only know how to do it, which is to go to the ATM and raise their salary from the state budget, to go to the park to play circuses, to get such fines politically in the elections and never to send them to parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55095	I thank my colleague Filipovic. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Ruzica Nikolic, submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55096	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the main reason for the adoption of these amendments to the laws, you stated that this is because of the procedures for the construction and legalization of buildings and the basic idea of legalization of wild construction is to return to the level of municipalities. The legalization of objects has lasted for a long period of time and very few objects are legalized. What we need to do to increase that number, to legalise more objects than it is so far, is to specify the conditions of legalization. Our view is that everything that was built on private land should be legalized at the best prices. We also believe that it is necessary to speed up the legalisation procedure and it is very important that all those citizens who enter the legalisation process themselves know all the conditions in advance and how much this legalisation will cost. The legalization business, if it doesn't end within a reasonable period of time, will bring great damage and you know for a fact that the state itself is losing big incomes. When it comes to the amendment we submitted to Article 10. The proposal for a law relating to the city administration, this article is being brought into line with the Law on the capital and with the Law on Local Self-Government, and we have not intervened to this member and we have asked for the erasure of attitude 2 because the completed law school and the passed professional exam implies everything provided for in Article 2 of the proposal, which means that such a formulation covers the whole proposed description and that there is no specific need to highlight it again in the said article of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55097	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 11 by MP Dubravko Bojic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55099	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to intervention concerns Article 11(2). It's a bill of law. Text – if the city administration is organised as a single body, it is deleted, with the reason that the city administration is a single body and the proposal cannot contain assumptions. Ladies and gentlemen, a well-recognizable manner of government's work continues to propose to the National Assembly the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. In the explanation of the promoter for such a procedure, you stated that the reason is that they are to initiate procedures relating to building and legalising objects or legalising objects, which simply doesn't stand when we know that these procedures last for years. Objects, i.e. The problems are piling up, and a small number of them are being solved. The Serbian Radical Party is fundamentally against this government's work of law-making procedures, because when something is done in a hurry, there is always a suspicion, even justified, that there is something to hide, hide and that something simply slips through. We have nothing against many things proposed by these changes and additions, including decentralisation. Trusting the municipalities of certain responsibilities of the city. But why only Belgrade? Many of the proposed solutions here could and had to apply to other parts of Serbia, such as demographic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55100	Thank you, colleague Boyic. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Tomislav Ljubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55101	Thank you, Chairman. These amendments to the Capital Act, proposed by the Proposer in Article 12. The bill, the National Assembly, should not adopt in any case. Unless the National Assembly accepts this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group, all the basic principles on which to build the most minimal dialogue between the authorities and the opposition will be laid down. The proposer wants the future head of Belgrade's City Administration for its work and the work of the administration not to correspond to the City Assembly, as defined by the current provisions of the law. In effect, the current law states that the Chief for his work and the work of the administration corresponds to the City Assembly and the City Council in accordance with the statute of the city and the act organised by the city administrations for certain areas. The promoter wants the law to remove the responsibility of the city's commissioner to the city's assembly and that he is only responding to the city council in the future. We all know it well, but I will say it, however, that the City Council's composition is made up of representatives of the government, and that the Assembly's composition is made up of committees, both by the ruling majority and by opposition committees. The proposer now intends to lift control of the assembly's functions completely and thus enables the Belgrade City administration chief to do whatever he wants and members of the city's ruling structure. In no case can it be good, it cannot be in the interest of the citizens of the city of Belgrade, nor in the interest of the citizens of other units of local self-government, as such solutions will be passed on to them. That is why the SRS parliamentary group has submitted this amendment and by accepting it, you have the opportunity to prevent much of the bad in the future that will produce these provisions of the law on the head of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55102	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55103	Nothing new has been said in this article, Mr. Ruzic. It's almost the same solution as the last one. And because of Belgrade and other Serbian citizens who are watching, he regulates that the capital has a manager, that he takes care of the economic development of Belgrade and that he has five assistants at most, which is the statute, which we heard is announced after the adoption of this law and that it will be changed by the end of June, should be regulated. What is our recommendation, our Serbian radicals, the Belgrade city government, is to identify specifically what the mayor's assistant is going to do. Here is the possibility that there are five of them most, and that they can deal with them or be in primary health care, sports, promotions. That principle of responsibility must be determined if such functions are already in place. We have, all the cities and municipalities in Serbia have different statutes, but in many cities where we are part of the coalition government, it is clearly and precisely defined, as members of the council are in charge of individual resolutions, as do those assistants of the president of the municipality. What are we talking about here? Because we believe that not all the burden of economic development can fall on the back of the city manager, but that responsibility must take over now and in future coalitions in Belgrade's government, this is a huge city that is developing, which has a lot of problems, which must first and foremost develop not only through the acceptance of so many people who have settled, so that it takes care of this municipal infrastructure, the arrangement of this and that settlement, the maintenance of housing, but above all, the main function should be to find, to find opportunities for new employment. In order to really develop these suburban Belgrade municipalities, which are here now, in a different orderly manner in this law, we expect that in due course, as recently announced by Mr Vesic, the Belgrade city authority will come out with these ID cards of each municipality. That's a good idea. For what? Because it is true that every municipality will see a compatible and demographic picture and its overall development as it develops. We welcome all these positive ideas so far. We also need a new Sava Square. It's necessary to regulate. Because, you know, everything that's down there has been adjusted, and that monumental building of the old train station, first of all, I'm talking to you to the Belgraders, at a time when many of you, including me, weren't born. Now it's a city that's developed, which has a much larger population and needs to be arranged. I looked at the latest version of the Sava Square, which was corrected compared to the previous one. I like it personally. What are these suburban municipalities for? We need both the gondola and the national stadium and the editing and the completion of the "Belgrade on Water" project, which, by the way, you know it well, especially you who have been in politics, the project and us, the Serbian radicals for a long time, but it is also necessary to do these ID cards in order to get foreign investors, and in that sense you need one of these five assistants, that's your idea, and you now see, and you, Mr. Ruzic, are part of that coalition government, too, because you know, they all have to share responsibility and to make sure that everyone in accordance with what his portfolio is maximum, because there's still one thing missing here. As they say -- they make an effort, they start initiatives, they make proposals, projects, but you can also introduce them to file reports on their work to see if they're only on paper or if they have results behind them.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55104	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55105	I thank the chairman. Respected ministers with co-workers, Resticic's amendment to Article 13 says the performance of mayoral assistants in the area of economic development in Belgrade is being set up by the city's manager, but there is the possibility of setting up mayoral assistants for other areas, such as urbanism, agriculture, etc. So today, we are discussing in detail solutions that will improve the functioning of the Belgrade city unlike the Belgrade authorities by 2012 when the responsibility was on the Democratic Party. I'm not surprised that my colleagues from Belgrade are making a point. They simply remember the bad authorities, affairs and abuses that led to debts, minuses and other consequences for Belgrade and Belgrade. I'm talking about it because all of these were negative consequences for all of Serbia. Although to be honest, I'd like at least one session to be dedicated to the government of the Democratic Party in Nis so we can hear as many examples as they misrepresented the authorities in Nis. To return to Belgrade in 2012 and later a debt of over a billion euros related to the city, as well as urban municipalities, public enterprises and institutions was established. And may our repetition be a sign to the public and be a sign to the state authorities that there are still some affairs to be examined. A good indicator that abuse and affair indeed was also a fact that 44 associates, who were officials at different levels, have been arrested and processed since 2013 and participated in actions that damaged Belgrade's budget by 8.5m euros. So they used positions and functions in different areas. Instead of passing such laws, they worked to improve Belgrade's city, expand, empower city and suburban municipalities. They've been breeding the city for many years, and in fact they've only been developing their own private businesses and personal budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55106	Thank you, colleagues. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Despotovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Despotovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by the SRS to Article 14 of this Bill, which reads - the organisation and systematization of jobs in the City Administration is governed by a uniform regulation on organisation, the systematization of jobs in accordance with the law, with the reason that the existing solution is more mobile and is proposed indefinitely and in general. I'll list a few examples of decentralisation set out in this proposal. First, strengthening the municipal police is very discriminatory, as one of its main responsibilities should refer to taking care of local infrastructure, warning and writing reports to competent institutions on impact holes both on urban and municipal streets to avoid greater material damage and even more serious consequences for drivers themselves. On the other hand, their competences should not apply to the abuse and punishment of citizens who survive by selling their products on the streets to feed their families. Secondly, I would like to list the restrictions on keeping animals and places and ways of performing pets, especially dogs and cats on public areas on the territory of the city of Belgrade. It is not a lonely example, especially in suburban municipalities, such as Barajevo, Sopot, Gročka, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, and similar where citizens are forced to keep domestic animals all because of their naked existence. There are many examples concerning citizens' applications to their neighbours because of the way in which domestic animals are held and stored with unpleasant smells, while inspections do not respond adequately, in which case citizens are forced to complain to the competent institutions, say the Belgrade City Inspectorate, while they transfer jurisdiction to each other, in which case citizens suffer the greatest damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55108	I thank my colleague Despotovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, with correction, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55109	This Article 39, which is actually subject to the amendment, is one of the proofs of how bad the laws with which you are harmonising this law on capital. That's what we said in the principle debate. You can't just say that because some other law has regulated it one way or another, because all these laws have been passed either by you or by those before you and certainly as well as by this law is subject to change and should change until a law is passed that really makes sense, which is applicable and will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. This article in 39 speaks of the City Administration, i.e. the supervision of the administrative city administration, and then there are various possibilities of how the City Administration can and should respond, and among other things you are talking about issuing a temporary order, i.e. a ban. Then it comes to a man's mind that the most, I'm talking about Belgrade right now, closed shops, shops in Belgrade are bakery shops. That's very interesting, as if these inspectors have turned around. You have three bakery shops in a row, two closed for three months, one working. After that, one, two work, but always the one that works all the time. Is it possible that only in that one street, in that one part of town, that one bakery works well, and these others have problems reporting employees, etc? It actually speaks of this selective approach, and what people who see it think and comment that it is obviously a corrupt business. Otherwise, it can't be explained, and then again when it counts, let's say, just today all the closed bakerys in Belgrade, each says they're closed because of workers working there black and then you'd count more workers than Ana Brnabic said there are black workers in Serbia. Says 11,000. It's just amazing. A woman might have been counting in one street. Eleven thousand and they have, he says, an action plan, you in the government have so by the end of 2020 you'll be solving this problem and all 11 thousand black employees will be introduced into legal flows. That's what she said to someone, "get out of the gray economy," or something like that was called a gathering where she was and where she was talking. She also said that this is also one of the ways that citizens will live better, which is not, of course, disputed that everyone should be reported, not working on black, but said Ana Brnabic – we can also provide a better quality of life for all citizens. I don't know, Minister, if you can, why don't you do it? Greota, for your citizens' sake, if you can provide better conditions and quality of life, why doesn't the government do so? That was just so nice when it was said, but it has absolutely nothing to do with reality, as it has nothing to do with the reality that only so many people in Serbia are working on black. Unfortunately, the way, or height of the lowest, or guaranteed profits, makes people accept themselves, even if they ask the employer to work on black so as not to take away their contributions, so that some dinar can bring home more. Work hard, work full-time, overtime, etc. And they're all doing it for barely that minimumer, so-called. If they are reported, then they really work for much less money than they really should and can earn for their work and to meet some basic needs. So, both this member and this amendment, we actually wanted to draw attention to the obligations of both the government and the city and all the local self-government that you, together with your forces, have to find final solutions to improve the social status of citizens, that more people don't have to, I suppose, all of you know, that there's no one to tell you, that people who receive a minimumer on account, who are properly reported, have to give about 5,000 dinars in cash, when they receive that 30,000, what is, 27,000 now minimum, 27,000 and something. That's what he gets on the bill, he's got 5,000 dinars to give to the employer. It's also so present that it's simply amazing. So you have a lot to do through administrative supervision and through inspection and at all through the work of the administration, through the work of the state administration, local self-government and what you write and what you present to us here as beautiful, pink, fairy-tale, all citizens know it doesn't look like it, because everyone knows how they actually live.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55110	National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about local communities. We in the country mostly everything we've done with the infrastructure in the past we've only done with the contribution of local communities. Belgrade has a large budget, I want it to have good advice from local communities and it is obvious that whoever rules Belgrade will be able to give such advice and educate, that there will be no political leaps, that these local community advices will work for the benefit of citizens, not for the benefit of the British Embassy. During the former regime's party, Mr. Martinovic, the British Embassy, and not only the British Embassy, decided who would be president of the local community. Their dissatisfaction with the failure of Kosharam, Paštrik, was so much so that they dared to arrange, not only how many soldiers and how many weapons Serbia will have, but who will run everything, and in Belgrade, during the former regime's party, during these yellow ticks, they decided very easily who will rule, not only Serbia, not only Belgrade, but even the local communities. Britain is our old “witnessed friend. ” An old confidant, who has done us more harm than the entire international community together with all the wars. She also suggested that we be genocide. One of the reasons I took part, or came to welcome Putin, is that, and I would crawl because it was prevented from being a genocidal people. But don't forget, even those who manage the council of the local community, that we must never be subjects like we were during the party of the former regime. Even I wouldn't argue with Britain, I must say this, that during their pressure Mr. Sutanovac destroyed more weapons, more tools, more military techniques, than a NATO pact for all 78 days of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55112	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55113	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, here is another amendment of experts who trade political parties, namely they are asking for a member to be inserted into the Capital Act on the financing of local communities, which is once again the case as in my previous address, unnecessarily implemented in this law, because this matter is detailedly regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. Now, why would they be interested in funding local communities, when their boss, Gilas, destroyed the city of Belgrade's budget, the local community didn't even exist for them. The local community couldn't get a single lying cop in front of the school to protect the children from the boastful drivers, let alone the asphalting of a street or something. Since we started developing local communities, building schools, kindergartens, caring for the needs of citizens at the level of each local community, they have remembered that there is also this form of local self-government in the local organization. I have with me the results of this government that have been achieved in a Belgrade local community, the local community of Kumodraz on Vozdovac. I'll read you a tax card -- we opened a post office and an ambulance in Kumodraz 1 elementary school "Vojvoda Stepa", we knocked down an asbestos building and built a school block with 13 cabinets, a physical hall, a renovated roof of old school, made access paths and fences and rehabilitated toilets. We renovated the toilets at the "Neven", we paved the streets of Earth, Stepojevacka, Tekeriška, etc., not to count, that's about 15 blocks. We paved October street and set up sidewalks and reconstructed the water net. We set up sidewalks in Gunjak Street, made a staircase from Gunjak Street to Stepenička Street and from Orahova to Kumodraska Street. We've set up lighting in the Torlaška forest, in Ljubica Street, the stream, part of Calemara and part of Ubska. We extended the 25P bus line and introduced new lines 406 and 409, we restored Stepa Stepanović's Rob house, built a sports field and children's playground on Stepojeka Street, etc. And, the works continue, there is no end and continues with the development of meatloafs. Therefore, the amendment should be rejected because it has nothing to do with this law, it has already been regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55114	The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55115	Thank you, Chairman. I simply felt the need to get attached, here says colleague Studenka Kovacevic that the applicants of this amendment are sitting somewhere to discuss functions in the newly formed parties they have bought. You know, they're not really new parties. We have already discussed this at the meetings of the congregation. They don't have a way to animate people. It is necessary to organise parties, committees, municipal committees, city committees. The party infrastructure means the support of the people. They do not have that support and logically, the parties are buying them instead of creating them from the very beginning. Never did Vuk Jeremic like to answer questions about the origin of the money, or why or how he was getting money from abroad, or what he did with that money. In fact, she suspects that he bought a party from Miroslav Aleksic and called it the People's Party. They say his team didn't need to collect signatures. Not that there was no need to collect signatures, but they were aware that the signatures could not be collected, so they bought the National Movement of Serbia from Miroslav Aleksic, in return Alexic came to the post of vice president and called the party. Okay, Vuk Jeremic bought the party, Gilas bought the party as well, and then they teamed up with bully Bosko Obradovic, seeking the right values. Of course, I'm ironic, towards attacks on women, blocking traffic at intersections, pulling signs, moving fences, wearing gallows, breaking into RTS, threatening those who don't support them, introducing a parallel parliament, and I don't know if I've left out any more nonsense, which serves them for entertainment, and it's not for the citizens to do anything. Their attitude towards citizens is seen here in parliament as boycotting, and they submit amendments, and they are signed for expenses, and their official travels are not foreign to them. And, in fact, they use their function to manipulate. And the citizens, the ones who voted for them, which is why they're here in parliament watching the show and that's all they can offer those citizens. In that regard, the submission of this amendment was also without results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55116	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55117	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would like to refer to the argument tabled by colleagues Kovacevic Studenka and Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, when it comes to this amendment, again we have several problems, again we have a false representation from the promoters of this amendment, who themselves do not know at this moment which parliamentary group they belong to, whether the SDS, whether the SZS, whether Gilasu, are probably some dilemmas. But it's not what's worse, it's not even the worst that they're not there, which we've already talked about, about probably having better things to do, that they feed pigeons in the park in front of the presidency, the worst thing that they've done with this amendment is messed up the laws. So they filed an amendment to the wrong law. I will read the argument that the Government is proposing to reject this amendment and this is the case – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed solution is in line with Article 74(1). The law on local self-government, and the issues of financing the financial report and supervision of the local community's operations, are governed by Articles 75 and 76 of the same law. So these questions are regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, not by the bill we are discussing today. So, e, these are these political and intellectual sizes and moral clusters that submit amendments to the wrong law. Thus, both they and Gilas were able to exercise their power wisely as well as those who supported him, some of the parliamentary groups that we said supported Dragan Gilas in the destruction of the city between 2008 and 2012. For all these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55118	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the first time, probably not the last time, it's going to be as long as this assembly lasts, that some miss and the law, in addition to being regularly missed and a member of the law, has yet to mention attitudes. We've told them here many times that it seems like the moment they wanted to get into the National Assembly at all, they missed the institution and missed the call. Some people seem to understand that, some people don't. Here's a question -- who do they represent, do they have parliamentary groups, parties? It is very difficult to give the right answer to that question, in some cases. Let's say in the case of those who don't even know his name. Whether democratic or democratic unions are united today or reunited, whatever that may be, but for some I don't think it's at all difficult to find the right answer and whether they exist and how they behave and why. Examples are working, the Dverry MP group. The former parliamentary group, therefore, no longer exists. There is also Mr. Ševarlic, he can confirm everything I say, so the Devere parliamentary group no longer exists as such, and I see in it the main reason for Boška Obradovic's behaviour and those who may still be following him. You know, when he starts to explain how for some high moral reasons, for some of the obligations that arise from what agreements they have with the people and what they have called it all, all so petty, he won't come to the National Assembly. The citizens of Serbia should know that the full truth, we talked about the importance of telling the full truth these days, reads like this – Bosko Obradovic everything and that this moment appears in the National Assembly, no longer represents anyone, he no longer has an MP group. He doesn't have time for a parliamentary group he could pick up and talk to. He would therefore have to comply with all the rules that the Rules of Procedure provides for people who are MPs, but do not have parliamentary groups, or they do not belong to any of them. As for the session on the subject of KIM, you have now heard the full truth and complete information. It is clear to you why Bosko Obradovic is trying to come up with some explanation that he would offer to people he hopes will turn them again tomorrow to vote for him. Why is he, a great Serb, an even greater patriot, and the greatest nationalist to whom KIM is full of mouths won't come to explain what he thinks of KIM for what he is fighting for and what he represents at the National Assembly's session. No, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, because Bosko Obradovic is trying to hide for him the painful truth that he does not have a parliamentary group, that he would have to apply for the word exactly as others who are not members of the parliamentary groups, Mr. Ševarlic for example, Zivkovic and others do. There are more than 20 of them, I think. Someone noticed, last week it seems to me, now the MPs who don't belong to any of the MPs have so much to seriously compete with, if one group made them become a third automatically, if not the other by number. So these are the problems they're struggling with. With all that, of course, we all know well, we who had the opportunity to see these things so closely, that Boška Obradovica had never really cared about KIM. Just like the former, present-day variants, yellow company subvariants, just like Dragan Gilas himself, who in the meantime supplied himself with a parliamentary group of Vuk Jeremic who doesn't know if he has one or two MP groups, maybe he doesn't have one anymore, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that they don't care about Kim at all. How do we know that? We know, for example, that we've had a chance to follow what they're saying, which is what they're hysterical about in the past few weeks. The moment Alexander Vucic started speaking publicly about the problems we have about KIM, he immediately jumped like a fallen, siktal literally – no matter what Vukic has to talk about anywhere or anyone, when he doesn't talk about it in front of the National Assembly. He must come to the National Assembly, we insist that he come to the National Assembly. When he spoke in front of St. By sinode, or the Parliament, they jumped again you – no matter what he has to go there and whom he has to address, he must turn to the National Assembly and speak of the kim. What happens? We schedule a session where the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic will speak, precisely on the subject of KIM, and they are now explaining to us, and now it's not good either. They can't figure out how to explain themselves first, why it's not right now, and then they say, "Because no material has been sent, we haven't seen the material and we won't come for it." Yesterday they all got the material. Not only are the MPs of the people, but it is publicly highlighted on the site of the National Assembly so that Đilas, who is not an apostle, and Jeremic, who is not an apostle, and these Bastaceans, if they are interested in it, is not good either now. Now the material doesn't have enough pages or somehow doesn't write exactly what they'd like it to say. These are, ladies and gentlemen and citizens of Serbia, who are watching this, all nonsense itself, so try to explain it inexplicably. Why do those who try to attack Alexander Vukic, in the most devious, inhumane and unholy way, on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, have no courage to appear, have no content to offer on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija in the National Assembly in which the issue is being discussed and will be spoken, but as many as three days from today? This will be spoken in double time for debate, if, of course, the MPs support it. We, as a parliamentary group, will present that proposal. We expect that the National Assembly will declare this, and if it is in line with what we propose, it will be discussed twice as much as we discussed, let's say, these things that are on the agenda of today's sessions. Is there anything better, more correct, more democratic? The scheduled session, a lot of them were looking for it, the material was delivered, and they were looking for it. We want time to make sure it's twice as long, so there's a problem again. They have a problem with that, maybe better than anyone else, seeing how much they have nothing to offer, how empty they are, and how many they actually don't care. How much they pretend to care about anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking today about the city of Belgrade and I was saying that they were never really interested in anything about the city of Belgrade. Kosovo and Metohija? Well, the same situation, but identical. Here, today, Borko Stefanovic, one of those who cheered and clothed their time, precisely on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, made himself some kind of name and some kind of career, which then recommended him to be something in their parent yellow company, and after much wandering, now even Deputy Dragan Gilas in that party that Dragan Gilas recently marketed. So, he should be among the top experts in their ranks for Kosovo and Metohija, if someone here has to suggest something, explain, it should be him, right? Today, Borko Stefanovic, on a journalistic issue concerning Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the withdrawal of recognitions, which followed more, I think is a two-digit number just a few months back when we look at it, but that is a fantastic result, to say what he thinks about all this, about the constant engagement, the extraordinary efforts Serbia is taking today, to establish with all of its friends and partners in the world the best possible relationship, so that even those who have once admitted, for some reason, so-called "the best possible relationship" Kosovo and Metohija have also achieved that level of understanding that they withdraw their previous decisions and we have succeeded once again. What is Borko Stefanovic's only comment? It says – certainly this campaign is exhausting for our diplomacy and takes up almost all the resources of the state that has other problems in relations with the world. So, for them, Kosovo and Metohija and the issue of fighting to withdraw recognition, so not so important. He says -- we have other problems, we don't have to, as he says, spend and exhaust ourselves and as far as our diplomacy and other resources are concerned. It's their relationship. Does this sound like someone who really cares about that question is saying it? Not to me. Someone who cares about this question could only support any result we have made, and to them it's exhausting, spending resources, and as they say, we have more important things. This is how they treat both Kosovo and Metohija in every other aspect. You will see, they will try to sell naive and gullible arguments in mind – here we now have some obligation there, because we have signed something that we will not come to, and they will not come because they have nothing to offer, at least nothing to contribute to them. Has anyone ever heard of a concrete solution offered by Kosovo and Metohija? Never for anything. One thing they said was that if I did something wrong, somebody would go ahead and set me straight, but make some text of a declaration that people should love each other and live together. Then they think when Parliament adopts this and our parliament in Pristina, that it will bring everything into ideal conditions and it's all over, it's over and no one will threaten the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija anymore and no one in the world will be under the pressure of the world to break whether to admit it or not. a false state and will never again be physically threatened and will not be disputed or property and will not be the controversial status of the Serbian Orthodox Church, everything will be resolved by itself. That wouldn't even make up a kid. Is there anything better and more concrete than that? If, of course, we don't count on them going to a closed-in gathering for both the audience and participants to make some alliance for Kosovo, as they call it, in which they have called again and you see that they can't ask 1% of the vote from Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which still doesn't prevent them from having some creative solutions and interpretations that everything will be great and good and will be resolved by themselves. You know when, what they say? When Serbia joins NATO. It seems to me the solution offered by Rada Trajkovic. She talked about it publicly, so we can join NATO and it'll be all right. Now, you're going to run this so-called policy. Gilas' alliance at KIM. Those, less than 1% of the vote, if ever there are so many, will probably follow it, and we will never hear from them any solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, it was important for the public in Serbia to hear that they know why they behave as they do on the subject of KIM, and that no one is surprised that tomorrow can easily see Boška Obradovica entering full membership of this united or reunified DS, as it is called, I don't know whether they have come up with their new name or are the Social Democratic Party or a free-law party, I don't know what the name of Gilasov is, but in some of these new forms of yellow enterprise, because by all other means he has absolutely accepted their priorities, their behaviour models, their famous system of values. There's not a single thing he said that he didn't step on, that he criticized with the yellow thieves, what they call themselves, that he didn't bow down to her. Then why don't you join the formal membership, I think it's a logical next step. Besides, today doesn't belong anywhere, there's no MP group, and it doesn't make sense that he's the only one left on the street with no one left. All the rest of these protests, so-called. The protests, they made the parties, and he's the only one who lost her, so there's no point, you'll agree, I'd feel sorry for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55120	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55121	Thank you very much. Since I'm mentioned, I didn't quite understand if you're criticizing me and should I leave the room now as the only opposition MP in these two ranks, so I can go help Bosca get back here on Monday? A team before the SRS has a principle comment that MPs who entered the lists during the election should stay on those lists or practically return the mandate of the list on which they were elected, which is normal, says a colleague. All right, then I'll go call Boshka and ask him to come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55122	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55123	No, Mr. Chevy, we didn't understand each other. I did not criticise you because you are no longer a member of the Devere parliamentary group, but I said that you can confirm that I am telling the truth when I say that this parliamentary group no longer exists. So that's all I said, and I believe I didn't do anything wrong, and I certainly didn't insult you for realizing that you weren't a member of that parliamentary group, and besides, you told us yourself, and I don't mind. I also know that as a non-party figure, you were on the electoral list, once a joint Dvora and the DSS, and then there was a separation of two separate parliamentary groups, and then one fell apart, and now the other. The one led by Bosko Obradovic, who meanwhile spoke of progressing, has become the universal co-ordinator of all who belong to Gilas, Jeremic and Boskovic, however, has turned out differently. He no longer has a parliamentary group, they have no one at all, she doesn't exist. Now that you look at the record of the MP groups on the National Assembly's website, I pointed out and said that if someone doesn't trust me, they think I'm biased, because we've never been on the same page, I said that you know that and you can confirm that. I didn't mean anything by it. The only thing that doesn't add up, which I could point out, is the fact that, I have to admit, it took some time for some things to be made clear to us a long time ago. Because, let's say, what MPs Nogo and Radojicic are saying today, that the Dvors and they've put out all their former official values and attitudes, it's been clear to us since the very beginning. If it took a certain amount of time for someone to understand these things, maybe it's the only thing that's embarrassing in the whole situation. But that Bosko Obradovic and his MP group for the National Assembly no longer exist as such, I think it is simply a notoristic fact and there is no reason to be angry about it, neither you nor I. I believe you agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55124	Replica, Mr. Miladin Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55125	The problem is, you have double standards. I had offered to all non-partisan MPs in the Assembly long before the transfer to the independent MPs to form a club of non-partisan MPs. You are one way of treating, say, a colleague of Lazanski and other non-partisan MPs on your list, compared to me. Now you're treating it differently. That's one thing. Secondly, I'm not the one who broke up the Dverry Parliament Club. Because after me there was a Dwarry Parliament Club. After me, two members of the parliamentary group came out of the ranks of members of the Dvora, not out of the ranks of non-partisan MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55126	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55127	Mr. Chevarlic, I did not accuse you of what happened to Bosca Obradovic and his MP group. If you were listening, I'm exactly what you just pointed out said a minute ago. So, MPs Nogo and Radojicic left Bosko Obradovic for what they said, which is Radojić, after all, published in his open letter sent to all members of the Dvora, because of the crime within the Dvora movement, because of the disappearance of incredible sums of money which not only was party, but was money that was intended from the budget for completely other purposes. They said in their open letter, the peak around Bosko Obradovic was personally exploited in that way and called it crime. Bosko Obradovic, Jugoslav Kyprijanovic, Marija Janjusevic, etc., have listed many people there. Among other things, and it seems to me that the president of the executive board or some resolution committee, I don't know what kind of organisation there in Dvori, which advocated that Kosovo should be recognised within these limits that it has set for itself. And he was named among the people who stole the Dvori, but, and much more dangerous, Serbia's budget. As for MPs who became MPs on the Serb Progressive Party list, they are members of our group's MPs, Mr Shevarlic. I'm sure you know that. Those who were not members of the parliamentary groups did not come from our list, and when you say – unpartyly, you know, there should be precision to the end. They were impartial, for example, Radulovices all the time. Radulovic pretended to have a party and we all knew he didn't. In the end, it became completely naked and clear. But also various others, which, I think, are now in the so-called. It's a self-representation club. They are currently headed by Marinika Tepic, who kicked Zoran Zivkovic out of there. You remember those dramas in the below, the whole series was there, soap opera. They're in Dragan Gilas' pocket now. He came this way to his parliamentary group, although he did not participate in the elections, just like Vuk Jeremic, who did it a year earlier. It wouldn't be quite easy to determine who non-party people are, who are people who don't belong to anyone, because there's so much change, that's amazing. Sometimes it seems to me to be the speed of the break-up, and the formation of something new, depends only on how fast someone is going to offer something or some payment to make it happen. That's why I only wanted to be precise, Mr. Chevarlich. You are not responsible for the fact that Bosko Obradovic no longer has a parliamentary group. For that, I should say, the two former members of the Dvora presidency, who recognized the crime in Dvori, Boško Obradovic's thief, betrayed, as they say, their programme, and therefore left Bosko Obradovic and the peak surrounding him, and made it public. And what happens to these Gilas and Jeremics, whom they left behind, whose crime, how much they took, how much they just took, I don't know, so I really don't want to speculate, but I'm convinced they can only be worse than Bosko Obradovic. I think we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55128	Right on the line, MP Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55129	Thank you very much. I think this debate is good, because of the citizens of Serbia. Milorad Mircic: Please, what are you doing? What does this look like and what is this? We're not the mill to be grinded. ) (President: Mr. Mircic, please do not disturb Mr. Chevarlic. Milorad Mircic: What is this? We're discussing a very important matter. ) (President: Mr Mircic, you are preventing a colleague from expressing his opinion. Milorad Mircic: He can speak freely, I communicate with the chairman. (President: I can't do both with you and with him. Here you go, Mr. Chevarlich. Thank you, I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55130	Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55131	Thank you, Chairman. They have submitted the amendment to those who are never here and to the local communities. Listen, local communities, in 2010, when the Vozdovac municipality came to power, or the SNS won. It was a rapper for all of Serbia, the Voždovac municipality and the Zemun municipality won, we come to hold a meeting to see where the local community is? There's no local community. How can there not be a local community? No, people didn't have a local community of Autocommand. Well, they don't care. All right, we're going to the other meat community of the Lower Leader to see where the other one is, to borrow. No electricity, no water, no local community in 2010. Shame on them, they talk about local communities. We go there, they only get there before noon, because there's no electricity or water, and that was terrible, they're sharing packages for the poor population. There's nowhere to wash your hands. That's what they did, and they talk about local communities. You're a disgrace. It's only after two years that we've been on our own misery, we haven't had any money, we haven't had anything, but we've done it as humans, and now we have a local community, that's where we take the citizens. We're citizens' services, and they're telling us about local communities. Now you'll see what we've done. We reconstructed and made a circuit of AutoCommand, now it looks like a world center. We renovated the school room for secondary and primary education "Vozd". We then placed a background in the “Disnelend” kindergarten, but what's very important, we didn't even have a sewer network on AutoCommand until a year ago. I'm talking about Ripnje, 20 kilometers, poor people from Ripnje, and we on Vozdovac, first zone, expensive zone, we don't have a sewer. This year, the way we got the money, that's how we did the sewer in the length of two kilometers. Shame on them. We renovated the toilets and locker room at Karajordje OS, introduced video surveillance and set up a new fence around the school. At Veselin Masleša, we renovated the access staircase, renovated the toilets, wet knots, kitchen, reconstructed the streets of Peke Pavlovic, paved the streets of Tipografska, Zaplanjska, Jaša Ignatovica, a crowd of streets. We set up an island and a pedestrian crossing at the Stadion shopping mall, and it was like a hypodromic, almost to get you killed. We did a thermal line on the streets of Brece Jerkovic, we arranged a basketball and football field on Donji Voždovac, we reconstructed four children's playgrounds, parks, church in the civil colony, we set up a new front door, 16 residential buildings in only one local community, one local committee. We set up public lighting on Esad Pasha Street without telling you what kind of garbage we found. We took off two dumps on that AutoCommand. It was a dump, you can't get past the smell. I'll keep going, I could talk for half an hour, but I'm embarrassed, I live there, and I'm not guilty of anything. We renovated and set up a public debate on Esad Pasha Street, between the building in the streets of the Jerkovic Brothers and the Vangelje Tome, we arranged the Dušanovac market, we arranged the stairs in the streets of Limska 15, and there we had a thousand objections, people were breaking massively. King's Street, walking trail set towards Kumodraj. We have reconstructed the pasarella in the OS "Branislav Nušić", we have rescheduled the access staircase in many streets and so on. Thank you, I'll move on because the material as far as the Leaders are concerned has at least 15 more sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55132	Thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Radeta colleague, since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55133	Before that two minutes after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55134	There's two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55135	These are about the last amendments to this amendment to the amendments to the law on amendments to the capital law, and I will try to remember a little bit through this amendment what we pointed to during this debate, both the minister and the assembly majority. Through all these amendments, we understood that we had not persuaded either the assembly majority or the minister to accept our amendments and to accept our proposal to withdraw this bill nicely from the procedure and to make a serious law on the capital. An existing law on the capital with changes that you will adopt today or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or in seven days, whenever it is not a law for which citizens of Belgrade can expect something much better in the sphere of city functioning. Of course, this is not a law which, as MPs try to present to the ruling majority, is not a law or new jobs, or higher salaries, or lower taxes, because it is all in the jurisdiction of the republican authorities. So what you've tried to do with this capital law based on these changes, we've been telling you several times, you're building a state in the country, you're building a Belgrade district in Serbia, and that's not good. You put this law in an even worse position for all local self-government in Serbia than for the city of Belgrade, which, only because of the fact that the capital city, the more the millionth city, has always invested more in Belgrade than in other parts of Serbia, more than in other local self-governments, is, in itself, let me say both better and better and more equipped and so on than other cities. It certainly shouldn't be done in a way that everyone else is in the trap of Belgrade, and that when you speak, and that's usually the custom of a representative of the authorities when they talk about Serbia, it's always as if it's only Belgrade, and when it comes to Belgrade, it's just talking about these several central municipalities and so on. A circle of two, as if these other municipalities belonging to Belgrade were not Belgrade. The difference in the quality of life between these municipalities that are not strictly central and these central municipalities is incomparable. So, you have, or we all have in Belgrade and not paved streets, and parts without sewers, parts without water and parts where mobile telephony is inaccessible, and all of this is the city of Belgrade, all of these are Belgrade municipalities. Here on the other hand you're making some show of Belgrade is going to do this, Belgrade is going to do this, and the colleagues were just saying that we're talking about urban transport now, instead of getting better every day, it's getting worse, it's showing and it's a fact. You promised once and there was a lot of talk here today about someone who was before you and so on, you promised to break the bus-plus contract so we could have a better ride, and to cost it cheaper Belgraders, you didn't do it. You didn't do anything you promised. There are, indeed, some works that are current in Belgrade, which we have no objections to, no one normal should have any objections to everything that is obvious to the development of the city, everything that is obvious to contribute, not only to Belgrade, but to the image of the whole of our country. That's certainly not for criticism, nor are we doing anything we ever criticise. This particular member I'm talking about right now is the amendment he's talking about regarding the local communities. And this is for serious criticism. We spoke in principle debate, and now I'm going to repeat and expand the subject a little bit. You have told us here that this law is in line with the Law on Local Self-Government and it is not disputed that you in the Law on Local Self-Government predict that this is how you will resolve, or choose the advice of local communities, but it is inadmissible. You're bringing us back when it comes to choosing the advice of local communities, and you're bringing us back, I don't know how many tens of years ago. Where is this democratic procedure, first it should have local communities in certain city municipalities in Belgrade, that's also a question? Why do we need local communities in the Old Town, in the Savaweave, in the central parts? Why do we need local communities where all jobs end up in the municipality headquarters, and in municipalities in local urban municipalities, which are far from the center, local offices can be opened in these villages. The point is that people living in those parts of Belgrade, that is, in all parts of Belgrade, and in all parts of Serbia, should solve their basic needs for the functioning of local self-government in their municipality, i.e. in their local office. So, it's one topic whether or not they need local communities, as far as we're concerned, they don't need them, but what you're about to do now, that you're choosing the advice of local communities in some sort of choir of citizens, a long time ago. At choirs of citizens who will convene the president of the municipality. Now, imagine, I asked you the other day, imagine that the mayor of Novi Sad, Vukevic, called on the assembly of citizens of Novi Sad to choose the advice of the local communities and could you imagine some Serbian radical, including a Democrats, a leaguer, a socialist, to come to a meeting of citizens who appointed Milos Vukevic. Of course no one's coming. The party activists will come, I took this example by accident, it applies to every municipality, to every local self-government. The party's activists will come and they will choose between themselves the advice of the local community, and that advice by the local community, Mr. Minister, will serve as money laundering. The municipalities of all local self-government have some funds from which, in a magical way, they finance local campaigns. And, it's a public secret, or some associations of citizens are formed with some pretty names - blue yurran, red rose, beautiful women, etc. such a neutral name, and then, as soon as the elections are over, certain funds to that NGO are transferred to that association, and then these funds are distributed to those who shared packages by houses, which carried propaganda material, etc. Now you're perfecting it through local communities. Your local communities will end this kind of business, so that people in municipalities, officials in municipalities will be free of it, no one will be able to say that the public officials will affect voters in this way, but they will do so through their 10 local communities, their ten councils of local communities, there, as it has already started much, will share not only propaganda material, but also food and glasses packages and will measure pressure and recommend salesmen from Chinese drug stores for high or low pressure. So, everything that's really happened so far. So we think that if we want to have community advice somewhere, they should be elected as before this Law on Local Self-Government, elected in secret elections, in accordance with a regulation governing the choice of committees in local self-government. It is also important here to remind ourselves that you have proposed this law by emergency procedure because, if this law is not passed by emergency procedure, citizens will suffer inconceivable consequences because they will not be put to an end. My people, is it possible you could write something like this? The legalisation of objects hasn't been removed since the beginning of 20 years since the government started dealing with the team. There is no minister from that area who did not come to the National Assembly with a bill on legalisation, on planning and construction where it was covered, on legislation, the latest Zoranin, that's some fancy name, etc., but nothing has been done. Legalisation was at the city's level of municipalities when it came to Belgrade, and then someone thought to concentrate it all on the level of the city of Belgrade, and then the trucks were carrying these big, fat objects because every law had a deadline where citizens were asked to pay a new tax and to renew the request, and when they came to the counter to rebuild, they said, but bring back a copy of this, a copy of that one, and that's what they are now, I'm telling you, one foot high each of the legalization cases. Now, since you haven't done anything at the city level either, you're returning it to city hall level again. The trucks are going the other way now. Now these items are being transported again and there's room in the office again. They move people again, they come back, they bring them, they take them away, and there's nothing going to happen again. I would like to remind you that in 2018, the last amendments to this Law on Law-Making, which was adopted in 2015 and in 2018, were prescribed and adopted here that any object not legalized within five years of the date of entry into force of this law, which took effect a year ago, if it is not legalised in five years, a solution for the destruction will be made. Now, imagine, for a year you've been dawdling, for a year there's no legalization in Belgrade, there's no legalisation in Serbia, and there's an hour running, and there's a time running out for people you've threatened to do if in five years, not their fault, who knows how many people came to the counter to get legalization solutions, to finish this job, but there's no. The subject may be in that place, perhaps on that one, perhaps there, perhaps here and work is not done, and a year has already passed since the five-year deadline where you threatened, or Zorana Mihajlovic, that objects that have not been legalized in five years. Now you're saying this law will work it out. Oh, my God! Here, if we knew that this law would indeed solve it within that time limit of today, and in four years it would really solve the legalisation problem, and we would vote for this law, but it wouldn't. It cannot be solved when the Law of Law enforcement, such as all previous ones who have treated legalisation, is such that they ask for any impossible act so that the facility can be legalised, and no authority has ever wanted to accept part of the responsibility because of illegally built objects, or objects built without a building permit. It's hard to say that an illegal facility is one where there's a family house that a man built on his plot, part of a plot, my building plot, part behind the house is a garden. Meanwhile, a son married, a married daughter, grandkids arrived, a family spread, and people can't live in that smaller house, even if she's not a little girl, and now she won't be sending family members to tenants if there's a crying behind her house that she can build two more houses on? He goes to the municipality -- good day, good day, what I need to build a house, I'm ready to take anything to get a building permit, and where, where, and there, and you can't get a building permit, why, because the municipality, or the city of Belgrade, didn't make a regulatory plan. Where, then, is the responsibility of this man who is tormented, but in a positive sense, has made him build a house for an extended family on his own plot without permission because you don't give it to him, and you haven't given it to him because for decades you haven't been able to make regulation plans for certain municipalities, that is, local self-government and urban municipalities, etc. If that's the case, then in the Law of Legalization, you should have predicted a little more flexibility. I'm sure 98% of the buildings built can be legalized, and that 2% can be controversial, but why so many... It's already millions of objects that don't have a building permit and it says right now - it can't even join the power. Imagine, a man made a house without permission? Okay, it's not okay, it should have a license. You built a house without permission and you can't plug in the power? Well, is there anyone here who suggested it? So, this little wider story has nothing to do with this law when it comes to legalization, but fraud and fraud and people's MPs and citizens of Serbia when you say -- citizens of Belgrade, here is now the minister and the majority of the assembly and the Serbian government telling you when this law on the capital is passed that you will be able to resolve all your illegal facilities by emergency procedure and that you will get legalisation solutions. That's what it says here, and we're telling you, unfortunately, it won't be like that. We'd love to, but unfortunately it won't be like that. You now have a situation that people can't do legal traffic, they can't sell houses because they don't have a license, and only a special story and one who possibly with a good commission... Do you know what the commission is to get a legalisation solution? Ten thousand Euros. Ten thousand euros to get a solution to legalisation, and those who have buildings with apartments for sale, for multiple apartments, there is the value of a single apartment solution for legalisation. Now that someone's in a hurry to sell the house for some reason or apartment, they have to pay for it to get that legalization solution to sell the house, because the illegal can't sell it, which is also amazing. If I'm willing to take the risk of buying an object that doesn't have a building permit, and a legalization request has been filed, why would someone protect me and not let me buy it? So, you're all set up like that, and this law is still bad for something. It is not good because you have also predicted a new public enterprise in the city of Belgrade that will own construction land. I've said it two or three times during this debate, but it just has to happen again. Belgrade has a directorate dealing with building land and building Belgrade. In this directorate, the people of Belgrade know it well, there are professional people sitting, people who know their jobs, who have been doing this job for years, for decades, in fact, and you don't do it well. Now, you're going through a public company, I'm going to repeat, to hire party personnel, to hire people who don't have the proper equipment, to hire people who formally get a degree somewhere, and who think that because he's writing on a degree that he's a space planner, he really thinks he knows something in that profession to do, and of course, he has no idea what space is, or what the plan is, because he's been doing some work that he's been trained to do after his three-year-old school, a nice job, nothing controversial, but you've allowed him to become something graduate and that something graduated is going to be the director of this public firm tomorrow, so he'll hire his people for bosses in various sections. Then what's going to happen? Then you're going to have a lot of cabinets, you're going to have building land, you're going to say -- you're going to get that and that, give it that information for that and that plot, and then, of course, that this illegal construction is very dangerous, which, formally, might even satisfy some conditions, and it's going to be co-operation with the tycoons, there's going to be corruption, there's going to be everything that Belgrade and Belgrade don't need. So, Minister Ruzic, this is the last hour, but it's not too late, pull this bill back, take a nice little rest, so at a regular session in the fall, suggest a complete bill on the capital, with everything you've heard today, with everything you know as a man from Belgrade, as a man from local self-government, you know all the problems, and then all the nice problems to sublime into one bill with solutions, and not like this with an even greater deepening problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55136	The word is made by Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55137	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. So, of course, that skepticism that we hear from time to time is something that can also be fruitful to point to a factual state and see what modalities are like to fix things. That's exactly what I think the proposal for these amendments is the addition of the Capital Act. The fact that we're going to relieve that narrow throat that exists and prevent any kind of irregularity, you're going to call it some corrupt activities, I'd say irregularities and simply open up the possibility that both building permits and legalization or law enforcement in some way in a redistribution after the city and city municipalities are decentralised and that we can make it go much faster, I guess the speed is the essence of this whole story. No one here has said that this law will lead to all these problems being solved, and it doesn't say anything if I'm not mistaken. But I think it opens up one big possibility for these problems to be solved in a faster way. This is exactly the reflex of what we see in practice and what we are all aware of. We can look at it from the vision of the government, from the vision of the opposition, we live in Belgrade, we know what problems exist, and therefore this proposal is presented to you as representatives of the country's sovereignty. As for local communities and the election of the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was also adopted in this House, it is clear that the law on the capital will regulate the procedure for electing members of the council of local communities. If we want to take one, I'd say, a serious way to look at what's been suggested, there really is no room for so much criticism here. Therefore, the president of the assembly is the one who will convene the Assembly of Citizens, but the citizens only propose a double number compared to the total number of members of the Council of the Local Communities and then the Assembly shall, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, vote on these members of the Council of the Local Communities. Also, on the trail of that, and here I agree with the previous speaker, not to be a pay phone... You were still listening. I didn't think so. Of course I was listening. So, I would agree here that there are realistic indicators that there may be no need for local communities in some urban areas, but it will certainly be the subject of consideration at the Belgrade City Assembly and I am sure that the city of Belgrade, like the ability of all leaders, will draw up a solution that is adequate to this very real life in which we live. It is not the same when you live in Vrakar, Old Town or Lazarevec, Barajev, Sopot, Obrenovac, etc. So, here, I really wanted you to, because you've been making a huge effort all day to explain your amendments. I think it was my turn to try to answer some of these really excessive criticisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55138	The word has a colleague, Verica Radeta, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55139	Very short. It wasn't us, Minister Rose, the skeptics. We're just real people. We know, and you know the real situation on the ground. We know that local communities are elected under the law, advice based on the Law of Local Self-Government. We're telling you, that's when we told you it wasn't a good solution, and now we're telling you what it looks like in practice. You have a clip on YouTube, here, so I don't talk to you. I told you the other day. In Kursumli they choose in the local community an alliance of the local community, in the home of culture, the door open, inside 20 people choose, offer members of the council. Three neighbors pass by and say, "Hello, neighbor, what are you doing, and the chairman says, "Well, write down, there's Branko, there's Marko, there's Janko, and they're in favour." So, there's something that's not supposed to be like that. These local communities, if they already exist, should be a place of office open to anyone living in that local community. Now it's not like that, it won't even be under this law. They're outposts of the parties that are in power. You can't convince me that's any different, and ask your field activists, so where you're not the government or where yours aren't in good relations with the congregation majority, ask them if they can join the local community. I can't. I'm telling you, they get out where the signatures are collected, where the signatures are falsified, where the election material is divided, where the food packages are divided, etc., and they're chosen in such a way that the people sitting there will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55140	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55141	Thank you. An absolutely unacceptable amendment for those reasons that the minister said earlier. And what's particularly unacceptable is the oral explanation of the previous speaker, I'm going to say that he doesn't mind me, and that's that this law should be withdrawn, that this law doesn't do any good, etc. I think this law is just the law that will allow for better functioning of the city of Belgrade, city municipalities, more effective meeting the needs and interests of citizens and in one word a better life for all citizens of Belgrade. What I agree with is that Belgrade should not really be viewed as the centre of Belgrade or, as you said, a circle of two, and I agree with that, although I am coming from downtown Belgrade, from that circle of two. That is why we are passing this law, to decentralised Belgrade, to improve the position of suburban municipalities, to strengthen their competences and their powers and to lead in the future to every suburban municipality being as attractive to life as the central city municipality, to ensure that every citizen of Belgrade is absolutely equal and equal and has the same conditions as the one in downtown Belgrade. This law gives greater authority and authority to these suburban municipalities. Urbanist plans outside the general regulation plan, we have already mentioned the establishment of public utility companies, the possibility of issuing construction permits up to 5,000 squares, when it comes to these suburban municipalities, legalisation up to 3,000 squares. You mentioned the legalization specifically, so I'd say the same thing about legalization. First of all, I agree that there was a time of suffocation, and I think one of the previous speakers used that term, asphyxiation of the Secretariat for Legalization Affairs, but this suffocation is the result of Gilas' centralisation of Belgrade, Gilas' change of Belgrade's Statute. At that time, it was all centralized in a secretariat that dealt with legalization affairs, and such a stifled Secretariat for legalisation managed to solve 25,600 cases for these three years, that is, since the adoption of the Law of Law. That's 16 times more than the previous government, that is, in the previous period, 16 times more like the suppressed Secretariat for Legalization Affairs. The state has made a billion and 300 million dinar billing budget in Belgrade, and that's the facts. That's a fact, then. Five thousand new property tax returns. These are all concrete benefits of the work of the City Administration and the city authorities decorated in the SNS. If we actually have this in mind, then we can imagine how much more effective it would be if we disbursed this Department of Legalization. If we trust city municipalities a little bit less, suburban municipalities a little more, then how much more efficient the whole system is going to work and how much more efficient we're going to make it possible for the city administration and city authorities to work. For all these reasons, I would like to call on us to refuse this amendment and support the proposal for a law on the capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55142	Thank you. The word is from a colleague of Dušica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55143	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I absolutely agree with my colleague, Aleksandr Markovic, that this is about an amendment that we cannot possibly accept. There's just a lot of reasons for that. I would like all the MPs, and above all all all all all all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of Belgrade to remind me of the essence of the changes that have been made for more than a year, on which the ministry has worked for more than a year, but also the leaders of the city of Belgrade. The change is about the process of decentralisation, the transfer of competence from the Republic to the City of Belgrade, as well as the City of Belgrade to municipalities, i.e. by changing the statutes of the City of Belgrade which, I saw from the media, that a new statute would be made by the end of June of this year, and from municipalities to local communities, which is something this amendment is talking about. I've really listened very carefully to a folk letter that has submitted an amendment that has really brought forth a series of lies. First of all, she talked about Belgrade being reduced to Belgrade's district, and I simply cannot agree. Belgrade is an administrative centre. More than two million people live in Belgrade. Belgrade has opened a wide door for all investors, tourists, students and is simply not a district. District says something's closed, something claustrophobic. Our capital is open to all students, young people, old people, regardless of gender, race, financial situation, material status and so forth. Also, the previous speaker said there wasn't enough talk here to just talk about a circle of two. Here I come from a circle of three, from the township of Rakovica, and it's just never been as much invested in my municipality as it has invested in these four years. So far, we have had the situation, and it can be witnessed by State Secretary Bojan Stevic as the city's municipalities were during the previous period when someone else ruled the city and the Republic, as the money was being received, really best described by the late Verica Barac's report, who said it happened as anyone wanted, that the media had been closed and that 25% had gone to commercials from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So they didn't care about the citizens of the local municipalities' budgets. Also, you were talking about having certain parts without sewers, no asphalt, no plumbing. That's right, I agree with you, it's a practical situation in the field, but I'd like to ask you who led to this situation. Who brought us into this state? We had virtual projects in Belgrade, failed projects. So, you can take a map of all 17 municipalities, seven suburban and ten urban municipalities, and go from municipality to municipality to all those examples of failed projects that were intended only to suck money out of the city, from city municipalities that absolutely did not use anything - from "Watch the building" to Vozdovac, modeling Terrace on New Belgrade, underground containers, reconstructions of the Bulevar King Alexander and many others. I don't have enough time at the MP's club to tell you what it was all doing to a failed company on the level of Belgrade City. You were talking about not seeing the development of Belgrade. I could say you're shortsighted then. You can go to any part of Belgrade and see that Belgrade is really developing, changing from day to day. You were talking about this isn't about any fundamental decentralisation, that's what we want to change. Since 2008, we have had some kind of pyramid here, that Dragan Gilas, along with DS, then a coalition in power in Belgrade, absolutely all changes to the statutes, the capital law went in the direction of so-called. Centralization. He grabbed everything for himself and the scroll around him. Hence, we are not surprised by these numerous affairs that have remained and which day our police and our competent state authorities, the authorities dealing with the judiciary and how they process. We can see in the media every day that some former secretary of state, some former assistant mayoral attorney, has been accused and prosecuted for corruption and abuse of official office. You said that these offices don't work, that local communities must have offices where citizens have to get answers. I want to introduce you to the next fact -- the leadership of the SNS City Committee in Belgrade every day communicates with its fellow citizens. We in the township of Rakovica really have citizens' choirs every weekend, we respect our fellow citizens' opinions, and these are no political gatherings. We don't bring in our political activists. We bring, absolutely call on all citizens who want to make a proposal, a suggestion, a question, how faster and more effective the problem in their settlement can be solved, to improve the quality of life of all parts of Belgrade. We share the same citizens who live in Resnik, the Prince, the Lambs, the Furious Fok, and those who live in Vratar, the Old Town and the Savawen. That's why we're like SNS and how we're different from the predecessors who ran this town. There are simply no citizens of the first and second order, that is, as you have led citizens from the circle of two. All citizens are equally important to us and we want to show really essential concern about the problems of all our citizens regardless of what part of Belgrade or Serbia they come from. Also, you were saying that we have a large number of legalization issues, with submitted legal requirements. Indeed, I can agree with that, but official data from the Legislative Secretariat say that over the past 30 years the Secretariat has been left in amannet 250 000 cases, that within three years 23 thousand cases have been resolved by the end of 2018. I will remind my previous colleague and with the following information - we are as SNS and how we worked to facilitate the legalisation process, to bring the process of legislation closer to citizens, to no longer corruption. We've introduced different forms of digitization. We've tied up a number of bases. We have an electronic building permit. We are indeed leaders in Southeast Europe. We've led to what's-his-name. It's a catastra. Why are they strikein' citizens? Why are the workers in Katastra strike? Because no more corruption, no more bribes to remove an object from the seal and put it first. That's what we're proud of, and that's our score. I am also not as pessimistic as the previous speaker when it comes to the transposition of the legalisation process, i.e. the harmonisation with the Law on the Law on the Law of Objects and the transfer of jurisdiction to urban municipalities, i.e. what awaits us is the amendment of the statutes that will follow these amendments and the additions of the Law on the Capital and how to make it possible. It is very important to you, it is the essence of the process of decentralisation, that you wait on the counters, going to the city center, going to the Department of Legalization, going to Katastra you actually in your municipality where citizens live allow through these so-called. service centers where in one place, you don't harass citizens to go from one to another counter, and to be awaited by administrative workers who will repeatedly ask for one piece of paper to be missing. No, we have facilitated legalisation, it is now possible in a few steps, and we will transfer all these items from the Secretariat of Legalisation to all 17 Belgrade municipalities, seven suburban and 10 urban municipalities, by making it easier and closer to legalisation processes for end-users, which are citizens, owners who have filed requirements for the law of their apartments, houses, garages, business facilities. Also, the previous speaker said that she felt that the amendment to this law, a very important law on the capital, which I believe the ministry has done a really good job, would be good solutions that lie ahead of us MPs, that it would employ certain party personnel. I would like to say that the state has now recovered and I am very looking forward to and encouraged by this information that has come, in the media a statement by the Ministry of Labour, Mr. Minister Djordjevic, who said that it is being considered that a ban on employment in state authorities has been lifted since January 2020. That's good news, that means that the state has healed, that we have money, that we can work on professionalizing our staff, that we can hire some young people who have graduated from colleges, schools in our country, not that we've been claustrophobic, pessimistic, and simply pulsism brings nothing new. Population can bring a few cheap political points, but long-term pulsism is not grappling on bread and it can't do citizens any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55144	Right on line, according to Natasa Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55145	I listened very carefully to my colleague Stojkovic, and she repeated the same word twice in connection with Mrs Verice Radet's speech, because her discussion mainly focused on my colleague's presentation. What she said at the beginning was really frantic, so I answer, here I am to defend the dignity of the Assembly and to her as a graduate politician, I assume, since she is a member of an international delegation of the OEPS Parliamentary Assembly, that she must know some of the foreign languages. This Filipovska isn't here. She doesn't know anything about it. So, that he must know what the word "district" means and when someone like the graduate lawyer Verica Radeta says to Minister Ruzic that this law appears to be making a Belgrade district, it is nothing, as you say, incarceration and claustrophobia. Mrs Stojkovic, if you've ever traveled anywhere in the world, if you know European cities, you must have attended these sessions, you should know that it's one spatial continent of the administrative district, once cut, between the two world wars. Let Mr. Martinovic teach you. So he was a Kickindian district, so after the war he was built on the premises of the former BiH district of Brcko. So now I really need to educate you, because you went to that and tended to be indignant about what your colleague Radeta said. So, it is thought that a certain degree of jurisdiction, which is not exactly characterized by the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government, is this given to the city of Belgrade and in this context was spoken by a colleague of Radeta. So, we who know very well how local self-government works, because it was not created either when you were born, nor I, but rather before and not related to self-government and communism, as some think it wrongly, but rather radicals in my native Kragujevac together with the Socialists Svetozar Markovic, that is, co-worker Jovanovic, that is how, counterpart Ruzic, called it the beginning of creating something that will extract these cities from the meet areas, that is, what they were then calling, because Kragujevac and before that also became the capital of modern Serbia. But I really can't right now, and I don't have time, and I don't want to keep you, or you, the chairman, to keep some political even here. It was really very inappropriate that in the beginning, if you had saved it all for Gilas, Jeremic, what you do in Rakovica, where you are, what are the successes, to say that someone is claustrophobic and that the district is a word, or meaning for something is closed. According to your thinking, then the capital of Great Britain is one closed whole, because there are several dozens of districts, as well as many other cities in the world. But since you're traveling, you'll learn something.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55146	My colleague Jovanovic, I assume it's article 107. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: That's right, Article 107.) Article 107, good to discuss. I don't think you understand, colleague Dusica Stojkovic, that she was not wrong at all. You know what, colleague Jovanovic, before I ask you if you want me to plead... Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: No. ) So I just wanted to ask the MPs to use Serbian words in so much wealth of Serbian and Serbian words in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing more. One appeal. So, no. No, I don't. As far as I know, you kept saying that your colleague didn't understand one side of the word your colleague said. I now appeal to all MPs to use the same in so much wealth of Serbian words in the National Assembly. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55147	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55148	Thank you. Right on the line, my colleague, Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55149	Am I a colleague of yours, too? I'm shocked. You just said I'm Natasha's colleague, and I'm not one of you. Am I yours? You're the chairman, Mr. Arsic. You really don't follow yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55150	Excuse me, colleague Radet, I wasn't more specific. Your colleague from the Parliament group, and when I called you, my colleague, Veronica Radeta, I was referring to my fellow National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55151	Don't interrupt me, I'm just trying to distract you from taking care of yourself so I don't want to talk about it now and in the Rules of Procedure. What our colleague from the SNS parliamentary group said, so Arsic said, one single sentence from her entire ten minutes is true, and that's a sentence of pulsism doesn't go on bread, and it refers to that whole populist story she told here. Who's to blame why something doesn't work in Belgrade? Who is to blame, who left this or that situation in Belgrade, in this part of Serbia, in that part of Serbia? My men, a child who was born seven years ago, in the meantime learned letters, went to school, changed his way of life. You are so much power, and you no longer have the moral right to mention that you didn't do something because someone left you. You can talk about what you've found and what you've done to make it go away, but you can't say that you treat all the people who live in Belgrade in the same way, whether they're downtown or somewhere in the periphery of a city municipality. Do you know how to live in these city halls? Look, take a walk. Ten minutes of rain, you can't take one street, except the main central streets. The rain sewers are unable to make it or make it, to clean it up so that at least the rainwater will go away. They know what it's like. She boasts about her e-catastrian colleague, she's the one who can be accessed electronically, but who you can imagine hasn't worked since November last year because she's on strike. He really has something to brag about. That's exactly how you did it. My colleague noticed I had a visual problem, but I'm not short-sighted, I'm far-sighted. She said I'm shortsighted, I don't wear glasses, but because I read, not to look at you. You didn't say that well. But what you meant in that sense in which you said, it's certainly an insult, you know. But there's a lot to be expected of you and I'm convinced it's not malicious. You don't even know what you're saying, like you don't know what the district is, so you don't even know what you said about me being short-sighted. It seems to you that I do not see well what you of great beauty are doing in Belgrade and Serbia. Don't do dear colleagues, so to speak, nothing. You're doing something, you can see it for something, but when it comes to the capital, you can go to Obrenovac, to Sopota, you're from Rakovica, you're from Rakovica, you're from Rakovica, you're from your cancer villages, you're dug up Rakovica, you come to the church in Rakovica, if possible. So, go around and see what you've done. It's nice to do "Belgrade on the Water", it's nice to have gondola ready, it's nice to have the central street arranged, it's nice to dress up the Prince Michael, it's all nice, but we keep telling you, it has to be done more in other parts of Belgrade. It is inadmissible in 2019 that there is one centimeter of Belgrade without a sewage network, and there is also no sewage and no water network. The rain sewer, as I said before, does not have 5% of Belgrade in those parts where it is necessary that at least people don't step, after two drops of rain, that they can't cross the street. So that's what you're expected to do. As for legalization, again, you have found what you have found, and between each of the two Laws on Legalization, whatever these laws are called, there are at least 50,000 illegal objects between each of the two laws. That's understandable, because there's no legalization. You want to confirm now or claim here, dear colleague, that as Zorana proposed the law, you adopted it, that nothing was wrongly walled in Belgrade anymore, but that you found it all from the wicked before you. As far as I'm concerned, it's the same. We do not blame you or them in this sense in the sense that you are being built, we blame a republican authority that has not done the regulations as God commands and which has not allowed local self-governments to issue building permits. It doesn't make any difference. If you show me, here's your community, Rakovica is the place and day today where the most unjust is built, and it's known who's building illegally, but I'm not going to say it for some other reason right now. If you know, say it, but no, it wouldn't be very wise for you. So, not only Rakovica, but Rakovica is the place where the most lawless walls for the last 10 years. It was continued at the same pace as it was, and in other parts. I don't mind people doing that. Why would I resent the people who make houses, because I just said it, because their families have spread, and they go to the municipality there can't give them an e-builder's license. E-building license, my dear colleague, means 17 papers, so when these 17 pairs are collected and brought to the counter, then you really get an e-builder's license. So don't talk like we don't have a clue, like we fell off a pear into this National Assembly, we know a lot more than you do, because you're swept away in power, so don't go around. Maybe if you were some of you, who were the government, who were the opposition and they were the government, they know how it works, and you who came to the party that immediately took power, you're swept up and you think you're eating everything that flies, you think everything you're told at a party meeting is really so that everything is colorful, beautiful. It's not. You work to make it as good as possible, and what you say is now, so it can't be done in 50 years, everything and the best to do. Be realistic, and remember, learn what the district is.
ParlaMint-RS_2019-05-24-0.u55152	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, My rules of procedure interrupt this session due to maintenance 22. Special sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, called for Monday, May 27th, 2019, starting at 4:00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sixth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 will continue on Wednesday 29 May 2019, starting at 10 a.m. Thank you.
