ParlaMint-RS_2019-04-25-0.u54068	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that Mr Dejan Radenkovic is prevented from attending today's session. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 18 of the agenda. I put to the vote a bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, one MP has not. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – four. I find that no proposal has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Ambassador Milan Lapcevic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 4 submitted by Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 5, which Gordana Comic has submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by Aleksandra Belačić. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. No amendment accepted. I would like to put the amendments to article 7 tabled by the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. Finalising vote: for – one. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 7 tabled by the Belief of Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by Natasa Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Gordana Comc. Finalising vote: for – one. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 10, which was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to the 11th Amendment tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – five. No amendment accepted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 12 tabled by Gordana Komic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 12, which Zoran Despotovic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 14 which Nikola Savic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 15 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – six. No amendment accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I put the amendments to the vote, with the correction, on Article 15, which Milorad Mircic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. I'm putting the amendment to article 16 submitted by Ivan Bauer. I'm closing the vote: no one's joined the vote. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs, in general. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 136, against – the abstentioned ones. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the conversion of housing loans indexed in Swiss francs. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I would like to put the amendments to Article 1 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, the NS. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: in – five. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 submitted by the Verse of Radeta I am closing the vote – no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by Professor Miladin Ševarlic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 2 which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS Group, I am concluding the vote – no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, with abstentions, voted one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the draft law on supplementing the Budgetary System Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 137 against – no one, with abstentions, voted one. I find that the National Assembly has passed the draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the regulation of the debt of the Republic of Serbia towards the Czech Republic, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Rondex Finance, Inc. on the regulation of the unmistakable debt of the Republic of Serbia towards Rondex Finance, Inc. from the period of clearing payment, in general. Finalising vote: for – 138. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the activities of the French Development Agency and PROPARCO institutions in Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 137, no two voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia a.d., Commercial Banka a.d., Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on a loan for the construction of a pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of South Stream Serbia AG, Zug, Switzerland, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 139 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Generale Bank of Serbia a.d., Commercial Banka a.d. and Vojvodjanska banka a.d. Novi Sad under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, under the Treaty on credit for the construction of gas pipelines on the territory of the Republic of Serbia from the border with the Republic of Bulgaria to the border with Hungary and other neighbouring countries with the Republic of Serbia through investment in the capital of the South Stream Serbia AG, Zug, Switzerland, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I put the amendments to article 2 submitted by Petar Jojic. No one joined the vote. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by the Belief of Radet. No one joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. Finalising vote: for – one. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for – seven. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 submitted by Sreto Peric. No one joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by Tomislav Ljubenovic. No one joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović No one has joined the vote. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalising vote: for - three. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act, in general. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Employment Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, in principle. Finalising vote: for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Ambassador Alexander Seselj and the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 4, with an amendment, which Filip Stojanovic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, with the correction that Dubravko Bojic has made. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Final vote: five. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. No one joined the vote. I am putting the amendments to article 16 tabled by Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 17 that Alexandra Belacic filed. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 17 tabled by Marijan Risticevic. Finalizing vote: in -two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 139 MPs. I find that a bill on amendments and additions to the Foreign Law has been adopted. I put the draft law amending the Airport Management Act to vote. I conclude the vote: for - 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the amendments to the title of the Bill of Law, which was submitted by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 1 which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1 to the amendment, which was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 1, with the correction that Nikola Savic has made. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1, with the correction that Ruzica Nikolic made. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 submitted by Marijan Risticevic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the draft law amending the Airport Management Act, in general. I'm closing the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in principle. I'm closing the vote: for - 139, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that we have passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I'm putting the amendments to article 1 tabled by the Prophet Radet. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 submitted by Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 submitted by Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 5 tabled by Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 6 tabled by Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I'm putting the amendments to article 7 tabled by Aleksandra Belacic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 8 tabled by Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by Dragana Kostic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 10 submitted by Bozidar Delic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 11 tabled by Petar Jojic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12 submitted by Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by Momcilo Mandic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15, which Milorad Mircic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15, which was tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote by Ljiljana Mihajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 17, which was submitted by Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 18, which Marina Ristic submitted. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the 19th vote by Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 20 submitted by Filip Stojanovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to article 21, which was submitted by Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted one MP. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, in general. I conclude the vote: for - 138, against - no one, abstentioned - has voted one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, in principle. I conclude the vote: for - 137, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted two MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to Article 3 together by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 4, which were jointly tabled by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 5 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 8 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 together tabled by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Miljan Damjanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Alexander Seselj. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 15, which was tabled by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 138 against. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in principle. I am concluding the vote: for - 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I would like to put the amendments to article 4, which were jointly tabled by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was submitted by MP Dubravko Bojic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 6 tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 7 tabled by MP Zoran Despotovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 8 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 9 tabled by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 10, which was submitted by MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 11 tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Nikola Savic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the MP, Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport, in general. I conclude the vote: one MP did not vote for – 137. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of passengers in road transport. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobilities and Waters catalogue, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Sreto Peric. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 5, which was tabled by MP Nemanja Sarovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 137, one MP did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of the Immobilities and Waters Catalogue, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on international road traffic, in general. I am concluding the vote: for - 137 MPs. I understand we've passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have accepted the bill, in principle. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by MP Ruzica Nikolic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I am putting the amendments to article 12, which was tabled by the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. I'm closing the vote - no one voted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on pawn law on mobile matters entered in the register, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs. I find that we have passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. Believers of Radeta. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. Natasha Jovanovic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. Rose Nikolic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 4 to the vote. Meet Peric. I'm closing the vote. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 6 to the vote. Milorad Mircic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 7 to the vote. Alexander Belacic. No one voted. I'm putting the amendments to Article 10 to vote. The absence of Sarovic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 11. Natasha Jovanovic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 14. Good luck to Peric. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 18 to the vote The absence of Sarovic. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 19 to vote. Believers of Radeta. No one joined the vote. I put the amendments to Article 21. Good luck to Peric. No one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 23 to vote. Peter Jojic. No one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 24 to vote. Natasha Jovanovic. No one voted. I am putting the amendments to Article 25 to vote. Alexander Seselj. No one voted. I put the amendments to Article 32 to vote. Believers of Radeta. No one voted. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on pawn law on mobile matters entered in the register, in general. I conclude the vote: 136 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Rights on mobile matters entered in the register. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs in the Professional Service of the Protector of Citizens, in general. I conclude the vote: 137 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Internal Regulation and the systematization of jobs in the Professional Service of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, in general. I conclude the vote: 138 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly conclude the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2019, in general. Thank you.
