ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2877	I can get the 3rd. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I can welcome you very much: all national councillors, our guests on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions. I very much welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting and the Official Protocol of the 2. Meeting of 23. October 2019 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Deputies Petra Bayr, MA MLSund Petra Steger are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2913	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Power. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. will be the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Business Location Mag. Elisabeth Udolf-Strobl represented after the end of the current hour. I should also like to announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: Federal Chancellor Dr. Brigitte Bierlein is represented by the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice Dr. Dr. h.c. Clemens Jabloner. As usual, the meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. Then you can follow them in the TV library commented transmitted. Today, a photographer on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate will be photographing for documentation purposes. Just a short while on your own: I've been operated on my knees. You see, thanks to the tips of Austrian medicine, this goes perfectly after a week. Both knees are renewed and in four weeks I don't need any more crutches. [[09:07:36]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e2976	We will immediately arrive at the current hour on the subject: “Europe in a state of unfavourable times. What does this mean for Austria?" Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Blossom. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3006	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values Watchers on the gallery, in front of the TV screens and via live stream! “Europe in a state of unfavourable times. What does this mean for Austria?” is the theme of this current hour. Last weekend there was a big European event: ==References== Anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. The separation of Europe was overcome at the time and an agreement was reached with it. If you have seen the pictures that went through the media on the weekend, you have noticed that the euphoria of that time is still noticeable today. On the other hand, the debate we are having today on Europe is often a little grotesque, because 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the most debated issue within the European Union is the withdrawal of a Member State from the common Union. If we want to take the issue of this current hour seriously and answer what this means for Austria, then we must try to find out how it could have come as far as this euphoria has come to the exit of a Member State. Many here in the House have consciously experienced the historical event of the time. Many of you can probably remember exactly where they were then and what they did exactly when they first heard about the fall of the Berlin Wall. To my generation, that is not the case anymore. I was just eight years old at the time and cannot say that I was so well aware of the historical significance of this event; probably the same applies to those 41 national councillors in this house who are as old as I or younger. Personally, the dimension of this event became aware of me only a few times later, interestingly on a family trip. At the age of eight, I was not very excited about family trips, but sometime my father caught us and we went on a trip together. When we were there and got out of the car, my great-grandmother suddenly collapsed next to me on the street and began to cry. From then on this trip had my full attention. My father told me in retrospect that she first saw her old home after 50 years. She was a displaced Sudeten German, and it took 50 years to see her parents' house again; it took 50 years for her to go back through the streets of her youth and visit her relatives at the village cemetery. Only the fall of the Iron Curtain as a result of the fall of the Berlin Wall has allowed it to do so. Then it was clear to me that something historic happened. After the fall of the Iron Curtain, it seemed as if the world had become a new – not only in Europe – but it seemed as if there was a clear winner in the fight of the great world’s views. Market economy and democracy have proved to be clearly more stable and successful than the other systems. If you explain the numbers, you can see that very clearly: In 1970 there were about 35 representative democracies worldwide; until the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== The largest growth occurred in Europe of the 1990s. The euphoria was so great at the time that the American political scientist Francis Fukuyama, based on Hegel, meant that “end of history” had come and also wrote a book about it. He writes that the victory of democracy and the market economy has also prevailed in Europe in an ever-increasing European whole, in an ever-increasing European Union, and hardly anyone at that time asked whether this system would be stable or whether there would be another one. We have to find that the world has become another today. Since the middle of the zeros, the number of democracies worldwide has been falling again. The placing of various bubbles has also fueled the critics, the critics of democracy and the free globalised market economy. In 2015, a wave of refugees was rolled across Europe and some internal borders were raised; and in June 2016, the British decided to leave the common Union. What conclusions must one draw from it as a convinced democrat and pro-European? – It must be recognized that the success of democracy is obviously not entirely self-evident. [[Call the FPÖ: You'll tell us!]] He is not God-given and there is no law of nature that dictates a democratic cohabitation. There is no “end of history. ” If we do not constantly strive for the preservation of the achieved one, we can just as well lose everything quite quickly again. In order to ensure that this does not happen, we should try to understand the reasons why the British leave the common Union. It is precisely this question that we asked ourselves in the run-up to the Austrian Presidency about a year ago, and it was quickly clear that there are about three themes that have led the British to decide to leave the EU. Clearly, the fear of migration was one of the main reasons for motivation, the loss of prosperity was the second subject complex, and the third is the fear of political loss of control. If we want to learn from Brexit, we must, as politicians, try to answer these questions and fears. In addition, in Europe last year another fear has taken place: the fear of climate change. All these topics move people in Europe, and on all these issues they expect political answers. Nevertheless, there are still politicians, commentators, self-proclaimed intellectuals, who believe that these fears, one or more of them, should be minor. It is often then said that these are only subjective fears. [[Abg. Scherak:... shall they be otherwise?- Oh, my God!]] It is often said that the intensity of the emotions cannot be demonstrated by empirical data or that some of these fears are only shaken by political competitors out of opportunity. I think the past has shown that the problems and challenges cannot be dealt with in small terms or that they can only be branded as propaganda by the political competitor. This applies both to migration and to climate change. It would be just as wrong, however, ladies and gentlemen, if you constantly conjure up the apocalypse, if you constantly try to legitimise interference in the rule of law and property with five-for-two divisions. I'm convinced that it needs another way, a third way. We must take people's fears seriously and at the same time give answers that create opportunities, but also deal responsibly with what has been achieved so far. That was always the way of the People's Party, and he will always be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Europe had the opportunity or had Europe had the opportunity to continue the path of unification and prosperity. Not too long ago, the European Council had a decision to take, whether or not accession negotiations will begin with another candidate. This is Northern Macedonia. This country has done incredible things. This country has resolved all bilateral conflicts with neighbouring countries in a democratic process. This country has fulfilled all the demands the European Union has made in order to start accession negotiations. Who knows what it means to change the name of an entire country, knows what it was like? I remember what happens when districts are merged in Austria [[Abg. Kickl: Or re-wrapped parties!]] That's where the Apocalypse is called. – You have changed the name of the whole country. But after all the difficulties have been overcome and all the conditions have been met, the European Union says no to open accession negotiations. I think this is not only a historical but also a serious moral error. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No!]] The reason for this was the French President's veto, which prevented this decision by itself. I would have liked Emmanuel Macron to have remembered his self-description at this moment as that of a glowing European, because it would have been a nice sign to invite a new member at a time when a member leaves the common union. I very much hope that Europe will solve this and other mistakes, because the future of Austria will be in a strong and united Europe – and we will work with all our strength for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3090	The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has been informed of a preliminary opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3111	In charge of the EU, Art, Culture and Media affairs belonging to the Federal Chancellery: Mr President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity to visit you today on the subject of "Europe in an emotional age. What does that mean for Austria?” to speak. In fact, we are in moving times, in times of change and upheaval. Trusted orientation and support points, such as the transatlantic connection or the attractiveness of our European life model, seem to be called into question. At the same time, climate change, migration, instability in our neighbourhood and the digital revolution present enormous challenges that will cover all areas of life and all societies. Many of these challenges are not new. They have shaped European policy for years. They were the focus of the Austrian Presidency in 2018, and they have co-ordinated both the election to the European Parliament and the wake-up resolution at the head of the European institutions. With the accession of the new European Commission under President Ursula von der Leyen – hopefully on 1st. December – a new legislative period is beginning in the EU. That is why it is It is also very striking to have such a discussion here in the House at this time, because the expectations for this new legislative period are great. The President-in-Office of the Commission has rightly made it clear that she wants to create a new dynamic. With the announcement, for example, of a European Green Deal or a conference on the future of Europe from 2020, it has already formulated interesting proposals. Further proposals will have to follow because there is a lot to do. First of all, we need to finally solve the Brexit. After three extensions, it is time we finally conclude this chapter. We all deeply regret the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the EU, and we all want as close a link as possible to the United Kingdom in the future, but we need clarity at last. The 27 Member States have so far managed to speak with one voice and show unity in spite of all the unmistakable calls, but these negotiations bind enormous amounts of resources, bind up enormous political energy; Energy and resources that we should finally use to shape our future and no longer to deal with a divorce process. An essential element in the design of our future is, for example, the ongoing negotiation of the multiannual financial framework, which will apply from 2021 to 2021. The Austrian position is very clear: If one of Europe's largest economies exit, the EU budget cannot grow. As in the past, the total volume of the budget at European level should be 1 per cent of gross national income, because the Union will have significantly more money than 110 billion euros as a result of the economic growth that has taken place in recent years. This is enough to focus on new priorities, such as research, innovation, security and migration. The climate-related share of the budget is also expected to rise significantly. At least 25 per cent of all funds in the entire multiannual financial framework and 40 per cent of agricultural resources are to be used for climate-related measures. At the same time, at 1% of GNI, we can ensure that the previous level of agriculture and cohesion is maintained. As a net payer, Austria is ready to continue taking responsibility. It will also increase Austrian contribution, but this is why it is our task to ensure that the EU is as economical and efficient as possible in dealing with its resources. Austria is working very closely with other net payers, such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Germany. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, challenges arise not only within the European Union, but also in our geopolitical environment: Russia and Turkey go their own ways, a new strong competitor with China is growing up and the transatlantic unity appears to be broken. Especially in the last two days, we have had to experience that in Israel again unacceptable missile attacks on civilians are being committed. International agreements such as the Paris climate agreement or the Iran deal, which was negotiated here in Vienna, are being weakened. Pillars of international disarmament efforts in recent decades are being questioned. But the most acute is surely the challenge in Northern Syria. Turkey's illegal military operation in Syria aggravates the humanitarian crisis in the region and threatens to trigger new flows of refugees. In accordance with the European Union, we therefore strongly condemn this operation and call for an end to violence and respect for international law and human rights. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We also expressed our strong support in the EU for an EU-wide, uniform arms embargo against Turkey, but the necessary unanimity could not be achieved. Austria has, and I stress, such an arms embargo since 2016. However, this recent development proves once again that the European Union needs a new access to relations with Turkey. Turkey is increasingly away from European values and standards. We therefore strongly support the termination of the accession negotiations with Turkey and the end of the pre-accession funds to Turkey. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We also address this point very regularly and at all levels of the EU; I myself have presented and will continue to do so at the recent meetings of the EU Councils in June, July and October. But it must be clear to us: The termination of the accession negotiations requires unanimity, and so far it is only Austria that puts this demand on the table in this openness and honesty. But one thing must also be clear to us: We as the European Union must not let Turkey blackmail us, whether it be on the issue of migration or in connection with foreign ISIS fighters. In this regard, there is a need for honest dealings at eye level. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Perhaps it is also important that in connection with the Austrian ISIS fighters, I emphasize the following: According to our information, there are about two dozen people with Austrian citizenship in Syria and Iraq who have joined the IS. The camps and the prisons in which they are located are currently not in the catchment area of the Turkish military operation. Ladies and gentlemen, an essential challenge for the EU is to ensure stability in our neighbourhood. We need an EU that is capable of projecting security outside as well. This is not just about south-eastern Europe. Yesterday, the Belarusian President Lukaschenka was here in Vienna and I am traveling right after this parliamentary meeting to Kiev for a meeting with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister. Traditionally, of course, our focus is very much on the Western Balkans and in South-East Europe. History shows that there can be no sustainable security and stability in Central Europe without sustainable security and stability in South-East Europe. This is actually about the European Union and Austria's immediate security interests. At the latest since the migration crisis, we know that the states on the Western Balkans are neighbours and friends, with them we are stronger, without them we are vulnerable. All that this region wants is a secure, visible, living European perspective – the EU has promised it and now it has to keep its word. We are therefore in favour of an immediate opening of the accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. The credibility of the European Union is at stake, and we are risking instability in a region that is – and is forgotten – surrounded by EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of challenges that we need the European Union can continue. The expectation of the European Union is therefore great, and at times it may seem that it is not very successful that sometimes the EU is half the way forward. In such situations, however, it is worth taking a step back. It has already been mentioned: Last Friday, 30 years ago, 9th. In November 1989, the Berlin Wall fell. And when we look at this period of time, these three decades, we see how much we have actually succeeded, how much Europe has grown in these three decades, growing – our continent is actually on the move. States and societies have changed, borders have fallen and a common currency has been created. In all the difficulties and challenges we should not forget these achievements. From an Austrian point of view, the European Union has proved to be a source and a decisive driving force for positive changes, and it will certainly be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3220	I should like to point out that in the debate the maximum speaking time is 5 minutes. Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3244	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good sign that the first current hour in this legislative period is concerned with the future of Europe, because the European Union is our common future. I am very grateful to our Foreign Minister for the clear positioning he has made for the Austrian Federal Government, because we are actually on a crossroads. In the new edition of the “Economist” there is a big interview with the French President Macron in which he sees the European Union, as he puts it, on the abyss. He says that Europe must finally wake up the European Union, because there is a significant risk that Europe will disappear in the long term geopolitically, or at least that our fate is no longer under our control. And then he adds that he is firmly convinced of it. He mentions several reasons for this. The first reason: We find ourselves for the first time with an American president who does not share our idea of the European project. In addition to the abandonment of America, the rise of China, the authoritarian leaders, as he calls it, would have caused this extraordinary fragility of the EU at our doorstep. Europe is losing its European sovereignty. The collective ability to determine the interests of Europe, our security, privacy, artificial intelligence, the environment and trade itself is irrevocably lost. Last week, the newly elected President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen in Berlin, expressed his opposite opinion, namely on the occasion of 30 years of the fall of the Berlin Wall. She said there was no reason for despair as long as we Europeans stand together and use our undisputed abilities self-confidently. Europe is more attractive today than we often believe. We may be getting older in Europe, but this is also true of Russia and China, and we may also get less, but what we have is unique and invaluable: The rule of law, freedom, democracy, openness to new life designs – the young people in China and Russia are certainly not. She goes on to say: 'Combining Europe's open societies Entrepreneurship and freedom. They provide stability and social market economy. With us, researchers not only find funding for their projects, but also good schools for their cinemas. who’, without having to pay school fees. And – a very important point –: There is clean air, there are pure waters, there are high environmental standards. These are two stories that could not be more contrasting. Where does Europe actually stand? – Yes, Europe faces great challenges, and if we accept them, we still have it in our hands that we can handle them too. Of the Leyen, six points have been set for the new Commission for the next five years: first: a European Green Deal; second: an economy that takes account of the people of Europe; third: a Europe that is prepared for the digital age; fourth: protect what makes Europe, our European values; fifth: a stronger Europe in the world; sixth: new momentum for democracy in Europe – yes, that is also necessary. Austria has already declared in the last government programme: We are a reliable and active partner in the European Union. We will do everything on the part of the People's Party that the next government programme will set out exactly this basic attitude: a reliable and active partner in the European Union. Mr Blümel has carried it out: Europe has made mistakes. That we have lost the British is hurting me and, as I believe, all of us, and that is why we need to rethink what the fundamentals of the European Union are. These basic virtues can only be compromised and solidarityd. We already have the first sample of nails on the Multiannual Financial Framework. I was in Brussels this week, where I discussed this subject in detail with parliamentarians of all 27 Member States and MEPs. It has already been said that we are in favour of a fair burden, we are also in favour of linking rules with rules on the rule of law as well as respecting a economical budgetary policy. We see the legal problems here – in Poland, Hungary and Romania – as well as the financial problems – I am thinking of Italy. The European Union is strong when the Member States are strong. Therefore, we must do everything together to ensure that Austria remains strong and at the top of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3305	Mr Leichtfried has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3327	Mr President, good recovery by the way! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Now we've experienced something: Now we have heard three speeches that you can perhaps put under the category: beautiful world, as I like it. What has not been mentioned and what has apparently not been important to the previous speakers is that Europe is currently affected and affected by three major crises: A social crisis, an ecological crisis and a political crisis are currently marking this European Union. And I fear this social crisis because it sleeps on the acceptance of this Union. I've been talking to a Steiermark tile army for a long time last week. He asked me: How do I get to be afraid of my job every day when I get up at half past five in the morning? How do I get it?, he asked me. When I asked him what the problem was, he asked: How is there that there is neither collective agreement nor social legislation in Austria at the neighbouring construction site? How can I compete with them? – And that is the crucial question, ladies and gentlemen. It is because European rules combined with illegal practices now allow this. You, ladies and gentlemen of the former Ibiza Government, have not only done anything about it, no, you have tried to promote it. That's what it was. Your European merit, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I think the tile army sees this differently!]] I would also like to ask you if you are speaking here now, Mr Kickl: How does a child in Austria perhaps not be able to afford the jause at school, perhaps not to be able to afford the school trip, perhaps not to be able to afford gifts for the party of friends, because there is not enough money in the family? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] How does a child get to the point that it's still that way? – This is not the Europe we want, it is the old Europe of the corporations and not the Europe of people – and we do not want it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also deeply concerned about the ecological crisis because it leaves people in Europe in doubt. How can it be that there is still nothing to do with industrial emissions and that pioneers like Austria suffer from the Voest that there is a bad competitive situation for them? How can we live by this and how can we accept that there is no transport policy in Europe from road to rail? How can we accept that billions are still being pumped into the agricultural industry and not into small-scale organic farming? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the Europe many dreamed of. This is now more a nightmare than a dream, and we also need to discuss it and we must not hide it in a debate in the Austrian National Council. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am concerned about the political crisis, the inability to act, which does not enable us to do something about the blockade behaviour of some states, which have only one sided solidarity in this Europe, namely, if there is to be taken, but not solidarity when it comes to solidarity. I tell you one thing, including for the future: If you think you have to be friends with Orbán, with Kaczyński, with Le Pen and consortia, you will be responsible for this political crisis in the European Union, and this also applies to the parties of the former Ibiza Coalition! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] The beautiful, valued ladies and gentlemen, is that Europe's policy and national policy do not contradict, but form a symbiosis. What happens in Europe affects us, what we do, affects Europe. We have an opportunity today to make policies against child poverty. Yes, it's true, biologically, money doesn't grow on trees, that's right, but that's not an argument that should prevent us from taking every necessary step that children in Austria no longer need to starve in class, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am now coming to talk to Switzerland. We could take a huge step towards transport relocation: air-conditioning ticket and truck toll. Switzerland was courageous and successful. Let us also be courageous in politics, ladies and gentlemen. We can do it, we can create another Austria, we can do more ecological policy, we can do more climate policy, we just have to trust ourselves. Let us not block power in this time of free play, let us not delay anything, let us make sure that politics is made in this House, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3402	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3424	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, after this five-minute self-refund of SPÖ for the consequences of decades of socialist failure in social and economic policy back to the matter! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Truly, truly, my dear colleague, Blümel, we are living in times of movement in Europe and, of course, in Austria – movement in the big as well as in the small. There's a new economic crisis coming to us. The savers on their account feel the movement down daily by a creeping expropriation that takes place there. The European Union – I am back on the bigger dimension – is politically far from capable of action. Just think of the egg dance in connection with the Brexit! Just think of this stinging birth of the new EU Commission with Mrs von der Leyen at the top, this Merkel apologist, saying that only the minds will be new and the policy that has already been announced there will be an ancient one; I can only mention the keyword of forced distribution of refugees across the continent. And old is also that one has still not agreed to punish those who, as heads of government, stand before the interests of their own people, such as Hungary. The morale of the European Union is down, which is being given to the pranger and made contemptful, instead of taking its course in general, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also movement in the southeast of Europe, movement in the form of masses of people, starting from Bosnia. Most of them are under the pretext of being refugees on their way towards Europe. Of course, one of the most sought-after destinations is also this Austria with its social system, which has already spoken about, that there are still too many incentives and that there is much too easy to find here. A few days ago, the German daily “Die Welt” published an assessment by the German Ministry of the Interior. It states that “all migration-related indicators, i.e. illegal border crossings and asylum applications, are currently at a higher level in all Balkan countries than in the comparison periods 2017 and 2018”. – That’s what it means, because the German Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, is a European champion in matters of abuse. This is not an interior ministry that would be an opponent of the welcome culture, but rather the administrators of the welcome culture sit there and do damage to the whole of Europe. 25 000 illegals have been in Bosnia and 18,000 of them are on their way to us. You have to know that Bosnia is not at the other end of the world, but that is four and a half hours from Styria. Bosnia is not only a hotspot for illegal migrants, it is also the bridgehead of political Islam on European soil. So what sets itself in motion from there is also the political Islam and thus a threat to our freedom and fundamental values. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you're wondering: What does all of this mean for Austria? – Well, in days like this one can only say, certainly nothing good in view of the government constellation that is bridging in front of our all eyes, a coalition of black and green. I mean, the idea must be taken as a supposed representative of a middle-right party, which the ÖVP still wants to be, first of all! You have to come to the idea first: Instead of putting a corresponding reaction or preparatory action on this threat situation, it is experimented around. This is where the OVP's supervisor is basking a coalition with a group of immigration fanatics, with people who already have a break if they only have to take the word border into their mouths. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] There he basks a coalition with multicultural dreamers, with exponents of an misunderstood tolerance. Where's August Wöinger? – I can only tell you that it is your party observer who is currently making sure through intensive craft shops, dear August, that you will be the one who comes home from Vienna to Upper Austria with the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whoever hopes for a restrictive immigration policy from this ÖVP is really no longer to help, my dear Ladies and gentlemen! One of my predecessors as Minister of the Interior – at present he is the President of the National Council and is sitting behind me – did this in the ORF “press hour” when he spoke about the fact that there is no real dissonance between the EIA and the Greens on migration issues. Yeah, what's that? – This is the flexibility of a pasture rod where it needed the hardness of concrete concrete. This is the new ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen. There is nothing positive to be expected from the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other countries, this is different. It was said that what Austria has done for a year and a half was right. The French are thinking about it – and here in Austria, you can get Black and Green to celebrate for a step back. Good night, Austria! It's a lot in motion. It is above all fire on the roof, and this fire can only be erased by the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3511	Mr Reimon has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3532	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! It is a bit difficult if we Greens always have to return to serious discussion after the FPÖ, but we try it every time. [[Abg. Kickl: This is always difficult for you!]] Serious challenges for the European Union: the Brexit, the Western Balkans, climate change, the reconstruction of the ecosystem, the reconstruction of the economic system, the economic system. And if fewer people die in the Mediterranean than on the Berlin Wall until 30 years ago, this would also be a great progress, then we would have done a lot already. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not agree with Mr Blümel's assessment that Brexit is a British decision on the substance of the matter. I have learned most about the European Union outside the European Union, in Norway, during a visit to the Norwegian Parliament. Then a parliamentarian led me around, showed me a fax in a joke, and said: This is where our laws are made. Norway is not a member of the EU, Norway is in a common economic area and implements all the laws on products, product regulations that the European Union decides to ensure that trade with us works so that Norwegian products can be traded with us, does not act on its own. If we in the European Parliament, the Council, decide in part in the national parliaments to take a decision on 28 countries, this will be sent to Norway. They then go to their national Parliament and decide so that they are compatible – and have nothing to say. I then said to the honourable Member: But this has to be done by your people, by putting your people to the palm tree, which he answered: No, not at all, they sit in front of the TV in the evening, see the Council meeting, see all Europeans fighting and are glad that they are not there. Then send us the results, we don't want to talk with you! In fact, such a European Union is not capable of action. If we turn this picture out to the outside, that we do not understand as voters and voters how what is going to happen, how to influence a law, how to punish or reward a party for something that makes it at European level, then European democracy actually fails, and we get to feel it. That's what we get from the British too. There is no or too little identification of the British with the European Union, and this is the main problem in Europe: It's an identification problem. You feel like Europeans or you don't feel like Europeans or Europeans, and then you are or are against them. That's also a generation problem. That's quite different with the boys. They don't understand why they can't pay with the euro in a neighbouring country, they don't understand why they have to pay roaming fees when they cross the border for 10 kilometres. They grow up in Europe, who grow up on holiday making in their home country when they go to Italy or something else. We see on the Northern Ireland question how much this is an identification question. It's not an economic question: Who wants to stay with the British, who wants to stay with the Irish and who wants to stay in the EU? The question is: Do you identify yourself as Irish or as British? These are just identification issues that we want to solve. It is time for pro-European parties to work to build a better, comprehensible European democracy, that the citizens of this Union are happy to be present and democratically represented. That's why it's going to be okay. And that is why it is important that pro-European parties shape this course. We have a problem with integration – Herbert Kickl is right. We have an integration problem with right-wing extreme parties, with nationalist parties, with citizens and similar people who want to go back to a Middle Ages - - Are you tired? [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes, with your speech you get tired!]] We have an integration problem with people entering the 19th century. Want to go back century and have no idea how to shape the future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The future means: Fighting climate change, the future means shaping our world in such a way as to preserve it, and that is only at European level. Nothing is more wrong than believing that Austria could do nothing. We are a member of the largest market in the world with 500 million inhabitants, well-earned residents. In the international economic comparison, if you compare this with China, India and others, there is no other block in the world that is more influential in climate change than the European Union – and Austria has a contribution to make to this, then what will happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3599	Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3621	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yes, no doubt we are living in very moving times, and I also believe that it was not right to say at that time, that is the end of history – unfortunately, you have to say. It is always important to fight for freedom, for democracy, for the rule of law and also for the market economy on European rules of play. This, I think, has shown the developments of recent years and decades. What I heard, especially from Mr Blümel, was a very serious problem. I was somewhat surprised by the statement that the problems you have described – migration crisis, climate crisis, the question of the sovereignty of the European Union, but also, so to speak, the feeling sovereignty of political action in the UK – would be spoken of by anyone. – No one speaks small! These are very massive challenges that we face every day, not only here in the House, but also in discussions with the Austrians, with our fellow citizens. These crises, however, have shown, above all, that sovereignty and ability to act cannot be limited to saying that we need strong Member States. A Europe that is sovereign and capable of action and which, in these major crises which we undoubtedly have, is required to be able to deliver, must become operational in these areas! Mr Klubobmann Kickl meant that the whole dilemma of Brexit is how little Europe is capable of doing. – I must object to this, not by exception, but perhaps by way of exception, as regards Europe’s ability to act, because Europe is not capable of action on many important issues. The European Union is well able to act in this area. She also speaks with a voice. The problem with Brexitdilemma is not causing Europe, but Britain with its populists, who are unable to come to a solution. Europe is on this issue Thank God on a line and says: We finally need a clear cut and a clear solution. Mr Lopatka spoke of Europe's self-confidence as regards the positive opportunities for the positive ground. That's quite right. That's what we've said so often: Self-confidence! We have so much to offer: Freedom, democracy, the rule of law, the market economy, but after a European cut, that is, a social market economy, from which we need to make an even stronger eco-social market economy, we have advocated NEOS for many, many years. We have entrepreneurial freedom, we have great innovations. Macron's right, though. He's not saying the opposite, he's just saying one thing: Let us be radically realistic where we stand! We may face an economic crisis. We are in a geopolitical situation where we cannot rely on our transatlantic partners, especially on security issues; Austria is not a NATO Member State. The question of the future of Europe is whether there is a common picture that Europe is increasingly capable of action, not only in economic terms but also in political terms. This picture is not necessarily shared by a Donald Trump. What has happened in Syria, on the one hand, the withdrawal of the US and on the other, the attack of a NATO member country, namely Turkey, there in this area, shows only one thing: that Europe must be operational in order to protect its own interests! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Macron is quite right when he says that we need a Europe that protects, and we cannot rely on others, neither on the US with a Donald Trump nor on China, because there is also a completely different system there that we do not want here. Or take another example: 5G, also the question of data sovereignty and autonomy for Europeans – in view of a situation in which we have global players who are de facto monopolists and rule over our data. Yes, is Europe capable of speaking with one voice in the field of action? - No, it's not! That is to say, it is radically realistic to say that we need a stronger, more effective Europe, and, ladies and gentlemen, this must not be limited to demanding strong Member States, but must be given courage, especially on these issues, not only on economic issues, but on security issues, foreign policy issues, technology issues, digital issues, environmental issues – to create an actionable Europe and to call into question unanimity in many areas. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We must move forward courageously and democratically in order to be able to deliver, for Europeans. It needs pan-European visions and not national pettyness. This is very important to me, because then Europe can really succeed in continuing this successful path, not only to ensure social peace, environmental sustainability, economic success, but above all to guarantee security stability and sovereignty for all in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3694	Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3715	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Austrians! ‘Europe in times of motion’ – I asked myself the question: When was Europe not in times of motion? Let's pass the last few decades of Revue: There was the case of the Iron Curtain, the Yugoslavia War, the separatist movements in Spain, in Northern Ireland. It was the times actually always moving, the continent moving. But the British's withdrawal has now hit us all hard, perhaps precisely because it leads us to see how fragile our European Union, our young Union is in fact still. With Britain, we also lose one of two countries with a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council. This is a problem in many respects, as France has an even more central role to play. Today we face completely new challenges, especially in South-East Europe: the pressure of Erdoğans, the insufficient external border protection of the Union and the rapidly increasing economic influence of players like China, such as Russia, like Saudi Arabia. If we look back into mythology, there has always been this connection axis in the Orient. The Phoenician Princess Europe was abducted from Asia Minor on the back of Zeus, who had taken the shape of a white bull, to Greece, to Crete. This is actually considered mythological as the first evidence of the link between Europe and the Orient. The myth tells, but the logos are well-founded. In the Western Balkans, there is now a situation in which we are virtually only spectators and that we are gradually dividing up countries such as Saudi Arabia, such as the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, China, Russia, but also the United States of America. Major infrastructure projects such as airport buildings, motorways are in the hands of these countries. Montenegro, for example, has a gross domestic product debt of more than 7 percent to the People's Republic of China. These powers, these countries are almost directly in our front rooms. You already have access to our house, perhaps even the front garden, yes and perhaps soon our living room; I don't want to talk about the data at all. That is precisely why, Mr Kickl, we have the task of acting together and not continuing to watch. If we see today what a difficult situation South-East Europe has arrived in, then the only logical consequence for us can be: We ourselves need to expand Europe! The doctor and author Peter Bamm has already certified the following: "Of course, Europe must always be in the state of extreme danger before it decides to do what is necessary to stay alive." Therefore, my logical confirmation is: In order to ensure stability in the future, we must welcome a meaningful enlargement of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need the merger with the Western Balkans for the following three reasons: to ensure peace and stability and thus remain independent and sovereign as Europe; as a clear union of a common culture; and so that our economy has sufficient labour and new labour markets at its disposal. Now that Emmanuel Macron, Mrs Colleague, has given a rejection to Northern Macedonia alone and that the accession negotiations – for me, the accession negotiations – are being postponed to an indefinite time, says something about us as a Union and less about these countries on the ground. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I have knownly condemned this, you just need to read it!]] In my opinion, this has a devastating signal effect. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I criticize that as much! You can read this in a statement from me!]] The people of Northern Macedonia have adhered to agreements, their goals have all been met – and the European Union does not comply with their agreements. Mr Macron has put his own day-to-day policy issues in France, his current state of affairs, possibly the first arm of the National Racism with Marine Le Pen, in front of the common Europe, and I think this is very, very shortsighted. If this were done by all 27 countries, the EU would soon be doomed! In Europe, I wish to see more clearly, more confident and more actionable. It is now only about the start of negotiations. That doesn't mean that North Macedonia is right there. Every country has a veto right for each negotiating chapter. It is about starting the negotiations. What are the most important instruments for a transformation in countries? – This is confidence, that is hope, and these are perspectives. It is only in our self-interest to act there, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that everyone can use their contacts with the other parliaments and talk to other Members. In times that have always been moving in Europe – in the past and in the present – we must now also actively shape! Helmut Kohl once said: “A Europe à la carte, in which everyone of the partners chooses only what he is particularly committed to this Europe, can be just as little our goal as a Europe that needs to be the slowest ship in the direction.” Ladies and gentlemen! I think we need more Europe, and this requires more courage and greater cohesion from all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3773	Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3795	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Europe in a state of unfavourable times. What does that mean for Austria?” – Well, I would say: That means fines at billions. In the Committee on Budgets on Monday, we have dealt with an application for a climate protection billion, and it has been postponed. There was no majority in favour of our request. First measures are simply postponed to the long-term bank, investment in public transport, in research and development and also in residential construction are simply delayed. This is incomprehensible or – as I would even like to say – actually irresponsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Week after week, thousands of young people go to the streets for a just, sustainable future, even in the summer holidays, I have experienced this myself in Carinthia. So there really is a week after week of a very determined commitment. The strikes have even gone so far that there is climate change: The strenuous classroom deals with ways and methods out of the crisis, so these are really sustainable strikes. I would like to remind you that we all, together in this House in September, have called out the climate emergency, and in many people we have awakened hopes that something will finally happen or that something will finally be done. But that cannot have been the final conclusion of wisdom! This is not only about solidarity but also about action. We need to take this part in the boys seriously, do not close our eyes and simply do the whole thing with an emotionless shoulder closure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The students do not simply stay away from school without reason. They are fighting for their future, for the future of our environment and our climate, and I think it would be fatal if we did not take these young people seriously, but instead starved in the rain or even now in the snow. We must finally address the major issues that have brought us the crisis! We must intervene, create and implement regulations and measures. What have we learned from the last crises? – That it is precisely Nothing self-regulatory! We in politics must create a consciously visible hand that intervenes and regulates the whole, so that we can act and turn to the good. The youth climate conference took place in Vienna on the weekend. The young people have come together to discuss ways out of the crisis and ways into a hopeful future. This discussion was scheduled for representatives of all parties. Two have not appeared, on the one hand the ÖVP – very bad! – on the other hand, the FPÖ. If one were Polish, one would say: Perhaps the Chemtrail large weather situation has prevented the arrival! But we're not Polish here in the high house. The fact that they did not appear is very bad, because I think that just after this election, the climate theme is very central. It is a nail sample, and people will really measure us by what actions we take and how we act. A postponement of initial measures on climate protection cannot make the protests stupid. The delay in climate protection billions will not leave them silent either. The boys will continue to fight! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You will continue to fight, Friday for Friday! Greta Thunberg said right: “Our house is on fire!” – I have mentioned it before: Our house is burning! Our hat is burning. Please take an example of Greta and all the young people who are going on the road worldwide for our future! Let us take our responsibility, above all, seriously, which we as politicians have in this area. We must not forget this: In fact, we have a huge responsibility for all the people out there, even outside the Austrian borders, and we really have to assume this responsibility, because we have no second chance. “Europe in a state of unfavourable times. What does this mean for Austria?": I would also like to talk about another issue, because I believe that this also means infringement procedures and the robbery of the future for children and young people. A European-politically important issue, which we have been working on for two years now, is the indexing of family aid: Children of hard-working people who pay contributions in Austria are massively badly affected. This has begun under Turquoise-Blue, and after several votes and warning of the EU Commission, we are still not a step further in this House. Despite many criticisms, even by experts who certify us to be EU illegality, there will seem to be no majority in favour of taking this child law-abiding step back. It is really embarrassing to take advantage of a breach of the Treaty, and I would like to add that to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My final point, Mr President: We're celebrating next week, 20. November, 30 years of UN Children's Rights Convention and 30 years of children's rights in Austria. But it still doesn't seem to be anchored in all the minds that a child is a child. We really have to assume this responsibility and take the indexing back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3877	Mr Amesbauer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3898	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Values Watch the TV screens! “Europe in a state of unfavourable times. What does this mean for Austria?” – Well: The movements and the moving times are mainly linked to the migration routes, and this means for Austria, ladies and gentlemen, that we must continue and improve our border protection properly. It is also remarkable that in this important debate, except for Clubobmann Kickl of the Freedom Party, no one speaker and no one speaker has really been concerned about this issue. This also indicates where the trip is going. Mr Kickl referred to this recent article of the “world”, in which the President of the German Federal Police also warned very impressively and dramatically about the ruling situation. He also said that the EU's external borders are anything but sure that they are not safe. In fact, however, it was the basis of the creation of the Schengen area and the deal of the entire Schengen Agreement that we reduce internal border controls and protect the external borders. If this is not the case, however, ladies and gentlemen, then unfortunately one has to say: Schengen country has been burned down! – In view of this, as a national state of Austria, we must also ask ourselves the question: How do we deal with this? We steirer – I am Steirer! – were the main sufferers in 2015. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] – Jörg Leichtfried, you know exactly! At the time, if I remember correctly, you were also a member of the Federal Government, who totally failed, who gave up sovereignty over the state borders and who, in truth, capitulated it from the refugee flows! We know what happened! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Tens of thousands of asylum seekers from all over the world, mainly men – I was there several times, and I looked at it on the spot – were won through, without recognition without fingerprints being taken without a passport being checked without being asked: Where are you from? Where do you want to go? What background do you have? We also talked to the bus drivers there, for example, these are people with whom you don't - - – I don't understand your calls anyway, Jörg Leichtfried, and the listeners don't understand them either! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Abg. Lighten: What about the German army now?]] We talked to the bussers who drove in the quarter-hour time towards Passau, and they told us that stop at each pink break ran two or three. What are you doing? People are submerged, and they're still here now. We also see the results in the Styria, where a new jihadist process is now under way. This is the x-te process in which the most cruel settings and world pictures are shown. People in front of an Austrian judge say quite unbelievably: Well, if that's what Sharia says, or if there's a court judgment, then the separation of a head, a decapitation, okay. We also know that Islamic hatred sermons take place in Grazer Beliefsvereinen, people are radicalized and well informed how attacks could be made. These are then conducted and observed as a hazard. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two measures to be taken: First: These people are no longer to be observed, but they are leaving, they are to be brought out of the country, for they are a danger to security in that country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, we need at last a consistent law against political Islam, which is a real threat to our country. This threatens co-existence, which threatens security, which is what warms up anti-Semitism in Austria, and we must be active there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] However, the basic evil is the uncertain external borders of the EU, and I therefore ask the Federal Government, the Foreign Minister, but also the Minister of the Interior, to work at European level to ensure that this works at last. It can't be that this can't go away! I can still remember the situation in Styria. I am now speaking to the ÖVP, because you are planning the government with the Greens: I don't want to see again such conditions as in 2015! I also do not want to see the people who will come here and enter the country illegally at the border as the first to receive welcome clatters and teddy bears, but that they will meet fixed, well-secured border facilities and uniformed forces that protect our borders. Surely they should not first meet the green-green welcomes, ladies and gentlemen, for that will not bring us on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] A comment on the ÖVP: I still remember it well, in 2015, about one and a half to two months before this breakthrough at the border actually took place, the Freedom Party, just like now, warned of the situation and the movements that are taking place at the Western Balkans. – There we have experienced a mutilating head of state Schützenhofer, who said: Don't be afraid! We have everything under control and under control! Then, around the Styrian country house, we experienced a human chain from the left, where the black Drexler hanged and clap himself, and afterwards they said: Border security's too late! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that the ÖVP will consider and that it will also implement the middle-right policy it has promised. It won't work with the greens. – Safe borders, secure Austria, safe home!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3974	Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e3995	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Imagine the following picture: First, the European flag burns, then symbolically the rainbow flag is burned, and to this end a paid amount is scandalized: White land without Jews, without Islam! – This is not a memory of the past, and it is not a horror of the future, but it is exactly two days ago in a European country, namely Poland, on the day of independence. Tens of thousands of people, not only right-wing, but also ordinary families, have participated in this march. They do not believe in this Europe we are talking about today. They don't believe in diversity. They do not believe in the cultural achievements of this continent and, as they say, they do not want peace either. One could now say: These are some crazy people. – But that’s not quite true! Today we heard about the fall of the wall 30 years ago. 30 years later, after the borders have also fallen in the minds and the borders have been opened within Europe, however, now, and increasingly, national scavengers are being set up: Front National, PiS, Fidesz, Lega, AfD, but also the FPÖ in Austria have the primary goal of fragmentation of this Europe, which we are talking about today, and of not fulfilling the real tasks, but even distracting it. The establishment of authoritarian state structures, racist arguments, but also this blind nationalism of which these mentioned parties are driven, are the guiding ideologies that are becoming ever wider in this Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: But the GDR is crying the left!]] From history – fitting to you, Mr. Kickl! – we know the consequences of the projection of enemy images and the strong differentiation between ethnic groups and the supposedly chosen people. [[Abg. Kickl: Apply the enemy model to your speech!]] For this very reason, democracy, human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of expression and their defence are not only among the most important values of the Greens, but also of this Europe! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Krisper.]] I find and we find that we have to go back there in Austria. It's true: The foundations in Europe are being wavered, the international order is crumbling, and European unification is in fact in question. With Britain, a country wants to leave the European Union for the first time. We also know that many people are particularly looking for a stop in such inconspicuous situations, and their uncertainty is not only exploited by the parties mentioned, but it is deliberately stimulated, it is consciously forced. – This very fear is the fuel of your policy and that makes your policy so dangerous! [[Abg. Kickl: What's the climate like?]] First of all, I call three points. First: We also need to focus more on the common social policy in this European Union from Austria. The compensation of economic deficits within the EU, the improvement of working conditions, the expansion and the defence of social benefits are steps that can prevent exactly this breakdown that we are faced with. Secondly, The issue of migration must not be limited to external-border fetishism, but it must also be applied to orderly integrative migration within Europe. You also know: Without immigration to Austria, but also to Europe, 12-hour days would not be an exception. [[Abg. Kickl: Jessas!]] The labour market potential would have dropped and the economy would not benefit from it. Third – even today we had a short time –: In fact, it can only work together in Europe to avert the climate crisis. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't be afraid!]] For example, the exit from fossil energies can only be solved at European level, and we know that the Europe we want must be an ecological, democratic and social one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Greens continue to work for this, and we also hope that there will soon be a shift in discourse in Austria, because this isolation does not do Europe or Austria well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4101	Mr Scherak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4123	Mr President. Federal Minister! Yes, I think we all agree that we are living in times of motion and that the question we have to answer is: What role do we have in this in Austria? Gernot Blümel has spoken to Francis Fukuyama, and I also believe that, like Fukuyama, one should not only make a problem break, but also propose instructions for action and develop theses. “The end of history” has not occurred as Fukuyama imagined. He also disproves his thesis in his book “Identity ” and gives a very clear instruction. We have heard of the problems that were supposed to have led to Brexit, namely the fear of loss of control, of migration, of loss of prosperity. With this fear you can of course play how populists do very often. However, one can also present solutions, and Fukuyama has presented a very clear solution in his book "Identity", namely more Europe, more cooperation, better cooperation. This is certainly not about further playing with fears to prepare the populists for the ground. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are now seeing – and this is exciting again in the discussion about the multiannual financial framework – that we have a very different picture in this context. Mr Federal Minister, you have mentioned that we no longer need funds because Britain is leaving the European Union. So if one assumes that the fear of loss of control, the fear of loss of wealth, the fear of migration has caused Britain to leave, then if one has these great challenges, the logical answer is that one will use more resources to meet these challenges in the future, and not that one says: I'll put my head in the sand and see maybe the next states will leave. – That’s quite clear! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With regard to the theses, the great challenges that exist, we all agree: these are the questions of how we as Europe can be operational, how we can be able to decide, how we can strengthen competitiveness, how we can counter climate change, how we can solve or clarify migration and guarantee external border protection. No one can seriously believe that solutions can be implemented without more resources. No one can believe that these answers can work nationally. How can one have the idea that Austria will be able to guarantee external border protection in some way alone or to solve the migration question?- Oh, my God! The answer can only be in a more Europe, and this also needs more resources to solve these problems accordingly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It has already been mentioned: Especially when we look at the world, when we see the global issues, we see that many countries say goodbye to multilateralism, and the more we need to act as Europe and see that we are moving forward accordingly. In this context is also an exciting one, and I can only recommend the speech of Timothy Snyder at the Jewish Square on the occasion of the Vienna Festival weeks, which is clear said that precisely those who have an interest in weakening the European Union are those states that are talking about nationalism. These are the US, that's China, that's Russia, and we should not come in on these, but rather cooperate much more closely and try to answer the questions accordingly. With the Multiannual Financial Framework, of course, there is the first sample of nails. If we want to have a common external border protection if we want to resist climate change, we will have to finance it. Everything else is illusory, as to believe that we can cope with the ever-growing challenges with the same means. The reverse solution, which is sometimes proposed, in particular by the EIA, is the principle of subsidiarity. The end of the question is the following: I have not yet been able to explain to any EIA politician what competence should come back to the Member States. The reason for this is also quite clear: because it is not possible to return competences to Member States on the major issues, but because they need to be resolved together. In other words, we must have more common in Europe. My last point is one of the few points where I agree with Mr Lopatka. A great opportunity on the issue of the multiannual financial framework is how we better picture the rule of law there. I am truly convinced that sometime it must be clear that, if Member States do not comply with the basic values of the European Union, we will also have to work with financial sanctions because they do not seem to feel anything else. And if they do not feel it and do not listen to it, then there is only this opportunity, and it is a great opportunity that we now have, and we should also act together in the European Union as Austria. To sum up, I have to say: If, as in my opinion, we, as Austria, remain more of a small-spirited attitude, that we say: No more resources for the European Union, then I can assure you that we cannot continue to face the great challenges, that we will only make the problems bigger and not try to combat the fears of people in some way and to counter them with real solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4205	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. [[10:23:54]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4226	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4462	I am entitled to announce that a debate will take place following the declaration by the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the present duly supported request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4480	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4501	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration and organisation of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 137, SPÖ 95, FPÖ 77, Green 70 and NEOS 56 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club per 28 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. Agenda items 1 and 2 apply: a maximum of five speakers per club by group size. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the unanimity. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4541	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that Members, Mr Vogl, Mr Wurm, Mr President, have requested the Budget Committee to report to the Commission on request 24/A for a deadline until 10 October. In December, the Council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Community, of the other part, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and Mr Rendi-Wagner, Members of Parliament, asked the Budget Committee to report on Amendment No 6/A to the Committee on Budgets for a period of up to 10 years. The Committee on Budgets' report on the motion for a resolution 3/A(E) was sent to the Committee on Budgets on 14 December and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. ==References== These requests shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. I should also like to say that Members of the Committee on Budgets have requested that the Committee on Budgetary Affairs report on the motion for a resolution 1/A(E) be sent to the Committee on Budgets for a period of 10 years. December 2019 to be set up. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a deadline, which shall be held either after the end of the agenda or at the latest at 3 p.m. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place at the end of this debate. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:26:47]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the National Energy and Climate Plan (NEKP) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 36/A(E) by Mr Lukas Hammer, colleagues on the implementation of the national energy and climate plan (2d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4598	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I would like to extend my warm welcome to Mrs Patek. I can now give the floor to the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4627	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated visitors! Appreciate spectators at home! I came to the House today to discuss with you a subject that is very important to all of us: climate protection. For years, if not for decades, climate change has been in focus, at least in science, as well as in many other areas; so true in society, however, the topic has only arrived last year. Heat records, drought or weather extreme – we can now feel the effects of climate change on our own body, and science predicts that these events will continue to abound in the future. Not only as an expert in natural hazards, forests and water, but also as a responsible minister in the expert government, I see climate protection as one of the most important tasks of our time, and I know that many of you have a similar view in this regard. In recent months, therefore, climate protection has been the top topic for me in many personal discussions with stakeholders at national, European and international level. In September, I took part in the United Nations Climate Summit in New York. Like Austria, other Contracting States also recognise the urgent need to take action to speed up climate change. We have committed ourselves in Paris to limiting global warming to significantly below 2 degrees Celsius. This will only be possible if the international climate protection alliance acts in the same way. Unfortunately, there are also setbacks. The world's second-largest greenhouse gas emissions producer, the USA, left the Paris Treaty in November. What that means is clear: The world community will have to do more to balance the US gap. Austria maintains the European pioneering role. The Austrian Federal Government strongly acknowledges the objectives of the Paris Convention. At the June European Council, Mrs Bierlein, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, spoke out in favour of ambitious action by the middle of the century. Austria wants the European Union to achieve zero emissions by 2050. We have already fixed the intermediate target by 2030: Austria will reduce greenhouse gas emissions outside emissions trading by at least 36 percent by 2030. The task of this transitional government was to negotiate how this objective should be achieved. Member States are obliged to submit a national energy and climate plan to the European Commission by the end of the year. The basis for this was the Climate and Energy Strategy Mission 2030, which was decided last year with the participation of the most important partners from the economy and the environment. The current assessment draft builds on the recommendations of the European Commission on the first NEKP draft submitted last year. The Commission's feedback is aimed in particular at providing more detailed information and calculating measures. The objectives, on the other hand, have been given a very positive witness. I would now like to explain to you our objectives in numbers: 14 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents will be saved by 2030. This is a major challenge, and in order to achieve this, all sectors must make a contribution. There is great potential in the building sector, for example by means of "pure oil" in heating and improving the thermal quality of buildings. A total of 3 million tonnes of CO2 will be saved in the building area. Decarbonisation is also being consistently promoted in the fields of agriculture, waste and F-gases. Together with industrial and small industrial plants, which are not regulated in emissions trading, 4 million tonnes of CO2 are saved there by increasing energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy. But the most important thing is the transformation of the transport system. The transport sector is the main issuer and will therefore also make the biggest contribution: minus 7.2 million tonnes of CO2. These objectives are the framework for our set of measures. Overall, the National Energy and Climate Plan contains 253 measures. Despite the current limited freedom of action of the Federal Government, important measures on climate protection have already been launched in recent months. This is our common merit: It is precisely Parliament's support that has made much possible. I would like to highlight some important projects. For example, the Federal Government and Parliament take seriously the need to ecologize the tax system. In a first step, important measures were adopted in the framework of the Tax Reform Act 2020. I would like to give two examples: First of all, the measures to increase e-mobility: tax exemption for all electric vehicles, both within the framework of registration tax and on-going motor vehicle taxation, and the Tax Reform Act 2020 now also provides for an additional consideration of CO2 emissions in the assessment base of current car taxation from October 2020. This will create another tax incentive for lower-emission vehicles. Taxation by means of the standard excise duty on cars is adjusted. This is intended to burden cars with higher CO2 emissions and to relieve vehicles with lower CO2 emissions. Secondly, a measure that will bring us forward in the field of renewable energy: The production of electricity for own consumption by photovoltaic plants is completely exempt from the own electricity tax. This is an important starting point for the expansion of photovoltaics. In the field of renewable energy, we focus on: By 2030 we want to achieve 46 to 50 percent renewable energy; today it is around a third. The goal of converting the power supply to 100% on renewable energy by 2030 was firmly anchored in the NEKP. These are very ambitious goals, but it is also the chance to expand Austria's pioneering role. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is great potential for this in Austria: We have high-quality environmental technologies, we do great research and we have innovative solutions for example in the field of hydrogen or bioeconomics. Austria already covers 70 percent of electricity consumption from renewable sources – and I would like to make it clear that we do so without nuclear power. A look at Europe shows, on the other hand, that other Member States in the field of nuclear energy see the solution to climate problems. Not Austria! We reject nuclear energy and we are clearly opposed to investments in the field of nuclear energy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] This week the European Investment Bank will define its energy financing policy in the coming years. The EU and the European Investment Bank will mobilise a lot of money in the future, and the EIB will continue to support nuclear energy in the future. The path to the 100 percent electricity consumption from renewable energy must show the renewable development law. We are also doing important preparatory work in the transitional government. I see the finalisation of the law as the priority task of the new Federal Government. The eco-electric production was already in the Hohe Haus in October. The amended eco electricity law is an important bridge. A total of EUR 106 million in investment promotions will be available for photovoltaics and storage over the next three years. There is a great need for action in the building area. We know that more houses and plants are being renovated and that fossil heating systems have to end. In September, the first courses were set here in the National Council. The installation of oil boilers in new buildings is prohibited in 2020. The next step should be to implement the Renewable Command: the reduced installation in the stock and the priority for renewable heating systems. The use of renewable gas also has potential and will replace fossil natural gas where necessary. In the field of agriculture, the focus is on the negotiations on the common European agricultural policy. Essential climate protection measures such as the preservation of permanent pastures are to be stimulated by a European requirement in the support system. In the course of the CAP strategy process, which we are currently leading in the BMNT, such measures are being developed step by step. A core area of the measures concerns the use of mineral fertilizers. It is the goal to reduce this by 20 percent. This can result from low-emission, for example near ground, fertilisers. Agriculture can also make a decisive contribution to the energy transition by fermenting more, at least 30 percent, agricultural waste and waste for biomethane production. And: Agriculture will be the first sector to completely change the use of machinery to biodiesel. In conclusion, the main area of transport: The conversion of the transport system must be done through a bundle of measures and is a huge task. A lever is the increase in fleet efficiency. The EU agreement on uniform fleet targets last year was a milestone. Now it is important to pave the way for clean mobility, and this requires an offensive, especially through the expansion of e-mobility. Every kilometer that is not individually returned is important, so NEKP clearly defines the expansion and improvement of public transport. In the ÖBB Framework Plan, the increase is planned to EUR 3 billion, and I would like to thank BMVIT in particular for the important negotiating contribution. Perhaps not quite as important, but also an important contribution is the intended increase in the share of biofuels, depending, of course, on the availability of renewable raw materials such as residuals. In bioeconomics, we have seen great domestic potential in this area. That was a cut-off of what we believe should be done. The question of how these or even more far-reaching measures are to be financed cannot yet be answered in the draft assessment. Decisions relating to necessary investment and public financing cannot be taken by us as a transitional government. With all the understanding of your criticism, the mechanism is clear: Funding necessary for the achievement of the objective must be set out in a budget. As the budget is being rewritten, no new financial resources are currently available. This Federal Government has agreed to manage and deal with the existing budget carefully. Deep policy changes such as a CO2 minimum price According to the German model may be tempting, but must be negotiated by a political government. We do not create a prejudice, but we show options for the future. We recommend the regular evaluation of the ecological effectiveness of all tax, promotion and incentive measures. In addition, further ecologicalisation of the incentive, promotion and tax system will be necessary. Counter-productive incentives and subsidies must be evaluated and reduced. A corresponding evaluation of such support is under the direction of the BMF in progress. The expansion of the trading system to other sectors can also be a good option. The new President of the Commission, who will hopefully take office soon, has given this prospect to the areas of buildings and transport. The funding that comes from the ETS auction proceeds should be used for climate and energy-related projects, thus enabling important innovations in the future. The energy and climate plan shall be transmitted to the European Commission by the end of the year, including an impact assessment. We have the scenarios calculated by a scientific consortium under the direction of the Federal Environment Agency. The results of this assessment shall be transmitted to the European Commission by the final plan by the end of the year. In recent weeks we have experienced an incredibly controversial discussion on the measures proposed in the NEKP. At NEKP, the last sentence is not yet written. We want to take advantage of the time to review all the proposals in hand. Some contributions, especially the reference NEKP from science, are already known, and we have invited the authors to discuss their proposals with us. We see quite parallels to the reference NEKP in some of the measures in the NEKP. We also care about your contributions, ladies and gentlemen, and our valued audiences. I would like to invite you to participate in the public consultation currently under way and to give us your opinion on the climate plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4771	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4792	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you very much for today's statement on the National Energy and Climate Plan, which has been reviewed last week. The Federal Minister has already said that there will be enough time in the next few weeks to discuss it and to deal with it too. Climate protection has not only been one of the main issues in recent months, it is undoubtedly the biggest task and challenge of our time. Every country, every human being has responsibility, everyone has to create an appropriate framework and even help to ensure that climate protection can be sustainablely successful. However, we are also convinced that climate protection, if you do it properly, does not have to be a burden with your mind, but – quite the contrary – can really be a booster for new innovations and, above all, also for a strong location in Austria, which, above all, enables our youth to contribute a lot to it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Never has climate change been so high on the political agenda as it is now, and a very warm thanks goes to the countless young people and many children who are going on the road across Europe and now worldwide, in order to raise awareness that action is essential and that we all have to make efforts together to reduce CO2 emissions. Even if we do not yet agree on how to agree a hundred percent and still need a lot of discussion, what is completely out of question. There is far-reaching consensus, including between all the parties here in this House, that CO2 emissions must be reduced so that we can achieve the Paris climate targets. The current transitional government has largely incorporated the recommendations of the EU Commission into the present National Energy and Climate Plan. There is a draft of the expert government, which also offers several options and measures. Evident is, above all, also where the major areas of problem are: It takes a lot of savings in the transport sector, that is, 7.2 million tonnes, about 3 million tonnes in buildings and around 4 million tonnes in the waste, agriculture and industry sector in order to reach our Paris climate targets. This is very ambitious, it will all employ accordingly, and it will also need commitment from all. Above all, transport, the entire transport sector, is our biggest concern child in Austria. In the field of transport, we recorded a significant increase in greenhouse gases in 2015, 2016 and 2017, and there are, of course, many measures on the table that we need to implement. This has happened partly in the last one and a half months, for example, there has been a massive investment in public transport, also in a large e-mobility package, but much more needs to be done. Hydrogen is definitely a technology of the future that we rely on; alternative fuels can make a significant contribution to CO2 reduction in the transport sector. In the building area, it is about the exit from fossil heating systems, but above all about the entire area of thermal renovation; and the key word bad will be energy efficiency in the future, there is a huge amount in it. The current recommendations of the International Energy Agency are aimed primarily at this area. We will only be able to achieve our climate targets worldwide if we make our contribution, especially in the field of energy efficiency and in the conversion of our energy system, but we are almost too small in Austria. If you've been following the reports of the last weeks, you've seen: None of the G-20 countries are currently meeting the climate targets, and it is not only a national, but above all a European and a global task that we have to fulfil in order to reduce CO2 emissions accordingly. But we also need to focus very briefly on what happened in the past, and from an Austrian point of view we can be proud. We will be one of the first countries in the world to challenge the energy mix completely without nuclear power and, since this year, without coal power. This is already a huge achievement that we have succeeded in the past, and this must also be a task so that we can continue exactly this way into the future. The achievement of climate targets will only be possible in Austria with a radical conversion of the energy system: fossil energy out, renewable energy pure. Nobody says it's gonna be easy. Additional measures will need to be taken, and, above all, appropriate funding will also be needed. All of this will be one of the main tasks of the next Federal Government, all of which is of course also Part of government negotiations, but I believe it is important that we agree here in this House on a basic consensus. We have to reduce CO2 emissions, we have to rebuild our economic system, but we have to do so in particular with people and not against them. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4855	Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4877	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! In politics, it is not about what is useful to us, but about our having a mandate to do a mandate from the electorate to represent their interests in order to fulfill what we promised before an election, and the policy for which we have advertised before an election. In politics, there are projects that come again and again after the political calendar and are, so to speak, political routine; but not every problem – in fact, it's always fewer problems – we can treat as if it were routine as if we had planned it years ago. There are crises, there are major changes that are happening to us at an ever greater speed – and these changes, these crises, very dear Mrs Federal Minister, cannot be managed. Such crises require swift action, and these actions are necessary and must be put in place with courage and consistency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are course corrections, there are re-evaluations that are necessary. Yes, they are precisely these issues, they are these changes – many have already been mentioned in the debate on Europe today – in view of which there is a particular need for a policy capable of action. You know, one of these big changes that lies ahead of us, which is already here, is climate change. Just a week ago, more than 11,000 international scientists warned us. They warned us and asked us to respond as soon as possible to climate change, and they made it clear that time is running out of time because the house is burning because the measures so far have not been enough to achieve the Paris climate targets. And in Austria? – Unfortunately, in Austria the situation does not look much better. In Austria, too, the revised National Energy and Climate Plan of the transitional government is not enough to achieve our EU objectives in a sustainable way. Only yesterday, the climate protection organisations of Austria spoke of a climate change paralysis in Austria. A climate change paralysis, Mrs. Federal Minister, is not only bad for the climate, this paralysis is bad for the people, it is bad for our children, for our grandchildren, it is bad for our future and ultimately bad for our financial situation, because it could cost us more than 6 billion euros in criminal payments to Brussels by 2030. Before the election, ladies and gentlemen, we all agreed, except for some exceptions here in the hall: Climate protection costs money, you have to take money into your hands. And we all agreed that it would be better to invest than to make criminal payments. Unlike criminal payments, climate protection investments also help to transform our economy, helping to create new jobs in the economy, so-called Green Jobs, which ensures our prosperity. These are Win-win-win situations that are created by them. We therefore also demand a comprehensive truck toll across Austria, because heavy traffic – you know – produces a lot of CO2, and there we have to put on. A truck toll would finance most of the so important climate protection billions we demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only three days ago I heard the money didn't grow on the trees. To do this, I can say: That's right, money doesn't grow on the trees. But I also know: If we don't invest, there will soon be no trees, and that's exactly the problem. [[Members Ernst-Dziedzic and Stögmüller:... 30 years!]] When our house is burning, we have no time to wait comfortably until the government negotiations – perhaps at the end of the year, perhaps at the beginning of next year – are finally concluded, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our proposal was therefore to decide already today in the National Council on a climate billion, so that sustainable measures can be put in place already in the coming year and not only in the following year. Unfortunately, the procedure on Monday was disappointing. On Monday, in the Committee on Budgets, the motion for a resolution on climate millenniums was postponed by the votes of ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens, to the long-term bank, ladies and gentlemen - climate protection in a waiting loop if you want to, if you want to, to go after you. Ladies and gentlemen, only because a new federal government is being negotiated in Austria must we not block Parliament in its important work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Who's blocked?]] We're all here, we're all chosen to work. Parliament is the centre of political work in Austria, it is the heart of our democracy, and that is why we will not let social democrats loose on this issue, because delays do not save the climate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are convinced that our actions are right that they are important that they are urgent. It is necessary to invest a billion euros annually in climate protection. This is not a luxury, it is not an orchid theme, and it must not fall victim to a party tactic. We want to expand the necessary public transport throughout Austria. We want a sustainable climate ticket for all Austrians. Many years ago, in Vienna, we introduced the 365 Euro ticket – a success project – together with the Greens. Let us implement this success project throughout Austria! Let's finally roll it out and let's not block it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Climate protection must finally be taken as seriously as it is. The climate crisis is serious, bitter serious. We are therefore also calling for a Climate Change Council, based on the example of the Fiscal Council, a consultative body to be set up to advise the Climate Change Committee, to make recommendations and to be independent of the control of climate change measures at national level. We all agree that climate change is an issue that we can only solve together. The challenges are too big for a party, are too big for a government, the challenges need a national end to the political boundaries, a close-up with our civil society, with youth in our country. If we take young people seriously, we act quickly, we act together, we act decisively and honestly, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4963	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e4985	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Lightness: Minister!]] High house! We have a 260-page plan, the energy and climate plan, ahead of us, which is currently under review. Of my previous speakers, no one has said what specific measures are contained in it, so I would like to start by saying what is in it, among other things: Implementation of a cycling master plan; more public transport budget – this is the transport billion. This transport billion has been set up by the previous government, thus strengthening rural areas and giving those at home the opportunity to be mobile, not individually by car, but by public transport. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Another point is the anchoring of environmental protection and nature conservation in spatial planning. Why? – This is also a matter of focusing on surface recycling. Why is that so important? – In order to carry out reconstructions if they are no longer added to their original purpose. Furthermore, the continuation and purchase of low-emission vehicles. That means: Biogas, e-mobility, but also hydrogen mobility. All these are concrete points in this energy and climate plan. Another point that I would like to mention is the expansion of renewable energies and, accordingly, the small storage power plants that are necessary to become energy self-sufficient. This brings me to another point, namely nuclear power. Austria has decided to give up nuclear power, one-way, across all sides of the party, and also coal electricity. At the same time, however, Austria is being punished for this, because all the states around it are doing exactly the opposite and investing in this form of energy. So there must also be compensation and countermeasures on the part of the European Commission and the European Union. We need a concrete shoulder closure, and I also expect all political groups to have a single and equal language spoken in this regard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also always about new taxes. We are already a high-tax country compared to other European countries, and we have the mineral oil tax, we have the standard consumption tax. All of these are CO2 taxes, and these taxes must be used efficiently for measures to protect the environment and nature. This is the task of the future governments of Austria to implement it. In any case, whether this is a CO2 price or a CO2 tax, it always remains a higher tax, and we reject that. We must deal with the resources we have available. Why? – It can’t be that you turn further burdens on the population. Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner – with all appreciation – when you speak of a comprehensive truck toll, of course this is possible, yes, that is a political approach, but you also have to say what that means, of course, higher prices in consumption, higher prices in the transport routes, because this is something someone has to pay for. There will be nothing more favourable if a tax is increased. So there's also a clear approach: Environmental protection, climate protection with home mind and not with a casting can implement individual measures! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I still have to talk to an exciting spatula. How my previous speaker Elisabeth Köstinger and my interlocutor Werner Kogler can create a spatula, find an agreement for a future joint government, will be very, very exciting for me. I know from the time when I myself was still actively involved in the negotiations and in the environmental field, that the basis for this energy and climate plan is the 2030 mission. To throw all that over the pile and reinvent it will be an exciting spatula, especially when you think about the greens. Werner, you may then completely revise or supplement this, but a CO2 tax is a must for you, the abolition of the shuttle fee is in your program, as well as higher fuel prices. The fact is that this also automatically damages our economic location. We must make and have a comprehensive approach across all sectors, we must have the opportunity to support climate and environmental protection across all sectors accordingly in order to convince people, not with bans, but with commandments. That must be the essential point, and we stand for it: no new burden on people!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5043	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Werner Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5068	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, the fight against the climate crisis is one of the greatest challenges in human history. The question always arises: What can Austria do about this? – You know, the Greens believe that Austria can do a lot, especially in the European context. That is why I would like to take up what the previous speakers have already said: What will be the national scope at the end of the game? We're not naïve. On the contrary: We are going to measure exactly – in the government negotiations that have been discussed, but also here in Parliament, I will say something about it later on – what is possible, what is possible, what is possible, and, yes, what is necessary, so that Austria, from its present position – you know how I have characterized it – can be included in the forerunners of European climate protection. This has not only been proclaimed by me, and I am very happy to hear it – as it has been a very useful, valuable and consensual debate from all sides so far. That's a good start. We have said very clearly, at the constituent session here at this pult: Our hand is stretched out, and this refers not only to the government negotiations, but ultimately to all the political groups here in Parliament when it comes to dealing with the climate crisis. We have already discovered during the election movement that all the political groups have made proposals that must now be brought together and brought into line. From our point of view, Mrs. Federal Minister, it is not enough what the national energy and climate plan, if you like, corrects, is that we can only meet the obligations of the Paris Treaty. We may have different opinions on this, but that is why In the next few days, weeks and months, it is precisely this: to explore how we come to a common goal path, which is perhaps the most previously undisputed one. We have more ambitious than those that the European Union sets out, as you know, and I think we are the only ones to do with it. Secondly, What are the intermediate targets in the sectors to be added there? But also: What are the volumes of measures to add there? – This will now be discussed in detail, to be discussed. However, as far as the current Federal Government is concerned, I would like to say that: The Republic of Austria is obliged to comply at least with this path, which has been agreed there. We have heard more often that there is something like an administrative government – one does not know if this is good; it is, I believe, well meant – but it might also belong to administrative acts that the Federal Government is considering exactly how to include paths in this national energy and climate plan, which will really lead to achievement. We cannot release them from this responsibility. Now, of course, I am adding that this has to do with the fact that you have to build on the existing circumstances, and we have had years to say not to lose some decade, because the phenomenon of climate change is so new, climate crisis is not again. [[towards Federal Minister Patek]] We are already dealing with a collective and colossal failure of several previous governments. You can't just ignore that. Now we – I have to say it anyway – are more in the back than in the front in Austria, but there we should and there we have to go too. In any case, this is our concern at all levels where we can influence. Let's see where this is going to happen everywhere and why it's so important! Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, the clubwoman of the SPÖ, said: We must do this alone in order to prevent the so-called criminal payments. It has failed ten times – I give you the right to invest, or to bind up a set of measures of a greater kind, than that we will end up with these payments, which will then take place via compulsory certificates purchases. That's all right. But if it is the case that we are only limited to individual measures and not focus on the overall package, then we will not achieve that either. What is the overall package? . We need a turn in energy, transport policy, yes, also in agricultural policy. This won't be the same thing everywhere, but we need it, and that's also a huge chance – I don't get tired of stressing it – for the Austrian businesses and for the Austrian economy. Then we still have to see that the whole thing happens under social security, of course, and - I have already learned it in the election campaign - also under regional consideration, because the various loads that can indeed arise through such packages will be distributed differently. But it will be all to compensate. We are the ones who are always preaching an ecological-social reform. In the case of taxes, for example, you always have to take into account the discharge on the other hand. That's perfectly logical. No one should stay there, otherwise we will of course never create the transformation. But that's possible. Let's take a look at this; that's what you can do. First: The SPÖ has made a number of proposals to this end. - Yes, I do. In our world, this is the 100 000 roof programme for the next ten to 15 years. This can be done, probably not even that much, but we have not yet measured it exactly on the million. Furthermore, the development of public transport. – Of course; that too was said. On the one hand, we need to expand it – this is an investment project – and at the same time it must become cheaper. We agree on this too. Whoever first had the idea is not the most relevant at this point. We have the same thing in the areas of investment projects elsewhere, and I am already saying something to you: I think we were the only ones who knew here in the house that you can't put them all into practice. We can no longer expand all the motorways to the extent that it was thought. We can't run around anymore and say: Regional airports, great, that's the future; I'm leaving Vienna-Swechat now. There are massive differences. You just have to name that and you just have to get there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can also say to your reassurance that's not just a green thing. In Austria, the research institutes are also heading in this direction. Let's take the OECD. This merger of economic nations – which is now not a left-wing event to take the fears of the FPÖ – is a short-term OECD recommendation for Austria to take a massive step in the reform of the tax system, because it has long been a relatively small area for us – in the past – that was different. Let's call it CO2 pricing or else like, that's not the problem. As a result, of course, we also need to measure exactly what charges would have to happen, because it is important that the tax burden does not increase overall. You spoke to me in front of me: Yes, okay, we have a tax rate that may be higher than elsewhere, but it's exactly about the structure. This is the essence of the reforms: to change the structures. The OECD is essentially recommending – and this is so rehearsed in the media – loud things that would actually be in line with the Green Programme. We take this very seriously, we will bring it in at all levels, and if so, then we will have to come to look at everything. A short word to Social Democracy: Yes, in reverse roles, it might be reversed, but you already know that there are reasons for one to see that, during the government negotiations, one can see that, when an overall package is tied up, one at least waits for an attempt to see if it can succeed before deciding on individual things. All that is contained in the climate protection billion – I looked at it again in retrospect – has the right headlines, goes in the right direction, but if you roll this out for ten years, it is 10 billion euros, and I do not want the Court of Auditors to give us the legislative proposal – which is an initiative anyway – that we would not have assigned the impact orientation so precisely. All these packages, at least when it comes to higher amounts, will be the target path of CO2 reduction, which will need to be used to reduce CO2 and it will also have to be defined which costs. That is also a fundamental reason why you should look more closely at that. I will then make a proposal as to how we can resolve this; everything here in the house. I am therefore on the point that, in the end, we must also put the overall assessment of the individual measure. We do this everywhere, and this also applies to those mentioned – I think it was in the previous debate – wide-ranging truck toll. I have great sympathy for it, which is not at all the point, but also There is a need to look at how this fits in as a whole, how it looks under European law. These are all the topics you've been dealing with. I don't want to give you any advice, but I think it's good if all the political groups, and also yours, make sure that they remain credible in the same way that everyone in this situation would think about something similar, otherwise someone will soon come up and say: Social democracy has been – in terms of this issue – almost throughout the government over the past 25 years, since EU accession – up to eight years, two thirds of the time, and since then it has been a subject, but it has never been. We'll try to get something going, just as you'll hopefully try it together with us. And together we must also say that we are doing it here in the house, in the corresponding committees. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's what's added. I believe that we will now take the initiative, unless it is about the Presidency, unless it is otherwise, that we are now setting up all the committees, because I believe that what applies to the extension of the Climate Change Committee at the government level must also apply here in the House. A central committee needs to be set up where these things are merged and coordinated. I am expressly in favour of establishing a Climate and Environmental Committee where we can consider and discuss this together, because we do not just have to conduct government negotiations. There all political groups can make their proposals and make an overall assessment. That seems important to us. Then we can sit down and say: Yes, all of us – that is, all who do so here – are on the side of the climate people’s desire – as we are. I am also expressly calling from this point of view to sign the climate-popular desire to create this entry into the transition, with measurements that go over ten years, and there will no longer be three days when we have failed to do so for 30 years. You have to be allowed to take it that way, I think. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even though the signs have shifted, I'm just saying: Stay loose! If we get there, nothing will come out. But we want something to come out, and we're going to try to do that in a very common sense here in the house. This is actually the main message: that we should act together. Again: Our hand is stretched out. However, we also want to make this based on climate change plans that the scientists, the environmental economists, give us. We will meet them all, we may invite them to the house here, we will see that they play a role in the government negotiations. We – and I only need to room the main messages together – have come back to the house that way, exactly with this message. We alone have not eaten the wisdom with the spoon. Everyone has proposals, but we try to focus on climate scientists. That's our mission. This should also be done by others and ultimately evaluate an overall package, and I hope that will not last forever. In any case, if we are good, we will be able to do this together and in parallel in the National Council – and then we will finally get into the debate and not stop each other!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5195	Mr Michael Bernhardzu spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5224	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Before I go into the saying, I want to start with a quote. After all, we have the National Climate Change Committee, which unfortunately has not been able to meet in recent months, and that is why the Scientific Advisory Committee of this Committee has sent a comprehensive opinion to both the Minister of Environment and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, explaining why we are currently missing our Austrian, our European and our international goals. I looked at this and found a pass that I want to read to now, because: Why do we discuss what this is about? – It is about the physical reality of climate change: “[...] Our Earth continues to release less thermal energy back into space than it gets into solar energy.” The energy that comes in, so to speak, and no longer goes out exceeds the twenty-fold of the world's energy needs per year. "Approximately 90% of this energy heat up the world's oceans with all the consequences. The remaining huge quantities allow polar ice shields and glaciers to melt, warm up land and air, and produce all the consequences that we commonly understand under climate change". For Austria, this means in fact, if we only achieve the 2-degree goal or a 3-degree or 4-degree goal, a doubling in each case, because in the inner alpine region we will actually have significantly heavier consequences of climate change than worldwide. Now there is this inspiration of science and there is it every time, and if I look at the previous speakers and listen to them and try to take them seriously, then I really get such cables – in what an ÖVP gives of itself when she says: We have to turn on the house mind, which, by the way, has not been switched on for the last 12,000 days, I believe. How do we want to trust an ÖVP with home mind if it does not take the natural sciences into account? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] By the way, I do not like the liberals much because they are just, they have always said, they are quite difficult to deal with climate change and have therefore also made sure that emissions rise again. [[Abg. Kickl: Not with climate change!]] In the case of social democracy, it is particularly casual to discover suddenly when they come to the opposition that there is really climate change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] In addition to being eight or nine years old, they have also been in the government throughout the last 25 years. You didn't do anything. Austria is in place within the European Union, from 28 Member States 23. We are one of five countries in which emissions have increased to 2005 – 1 percent increase in emissions. What about other countries in Western and Central Europe? – We have there: Denmark minus 36 percent, United Kingdom minus 30 percent, Sweden, Germany, Lithuania, Latvia, up to five countries, all actually have a significant reduction in emissions. [[Abg. Kickl: Great! And how do they make their energy?- Oh, my God!]] In addition to Cyprus, Spain and Croatia, Austria is at the end. All of this has ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ to answer in the last decades. We miss the goals of our own climate protection law – the ones we have put ourselves, we miss. Normally, a government would have to improve – the last federal government and the present have not done so. They thus violate upright laws. We are missing our own European goals, which we ourselves have negotiated, which we have considered to be correct and sensible and which are not even sufficient to achieve the Paris climate objectives. We would have to do much more to achieve the Paris objectives. But we do not even do what the European Union itself has done. But now we also come to see that there are councils. There is a National Climate Change Advisory Council where the representatives of the parties, the NGOs and science sit inside, which is supposed to advise a federal government as a consultative voice. What do you do from the moment when a law is virtually abandoned? – You just don't call the advisory board anymore. The opinions, which then originate from science and from all the others, are ignored – by elected governments as well as by established governments. The opposition is ignored. If we make good proposals, we were ignored by the ÖVP, we were ignored by the SPÖ and we were usually laughed at by the FPÖ. All this, this picture also shows the National Energy and Climate Plan. The Federal Minister for the Environment and Sustainability had the courage to write this very defeat and also to lead us. What would we like, what would it take? – An overall package required that we once need transparency, climate transparency. Where are we? Where do we have to go? What to do? First of all, we need a CO2 budget. Just as we have an annual financial volume of resources that we have available, it also needs the same for emissions. We have international agreements, we have also decided to pay fines if we do not comply with them, so we need a corresponding CO2 budget in the National Council, negotiated annually, and everyone has to stick to it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The same is true – because we are federal, whether we want or not – also for the federal states, and it should actually apply to all communities. There is still a lot of what my colleagues Schellhorn and Shetty will say afterwards, because unfortunately my speaking time is almost over. I would just like to make two points: One is that we should stop all environmentally harmful funding from next year. The state should not spend any more money on failing to achieve our own goals and then making criminal payments. And quite clearly: If we decide on a CO2 budget with an annual reduction, the same is true for us in the CO2 budget as for the financial resources: a zero deficit is the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5292	Mr Johannes Jestingenschlager, Member of the European Parliament, spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5317	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In principle, if we want to push forward the measures in the field of climate protection from the National Energy and Climate Plan and if all the political groups are finally agreed here. When it comes to the pace, the unity is not always there, and when it is pointed out by the Social Democracy that we have to do something at last at an increased pace, then I would like to say that we have to do something about it. already point out that something has already happened and that the previous government has also done a lot: for example, in the field of biomass, in the Biomass Basic Law. Just your group has delayed this law for half a year and thus blocked renewable energy in Austria. That is why we should already take the time for political processes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We are today in a situation after a re-election, in a situation of re-designation of the government. Before that, the existing government had been dissociated and the transitional government had been set up. We could have implemented some measures with an existing political government. The positive effect of your strategy was that you have fewer mandates today; they are – thank God! – went to a party that is the core subject of environmental and climate policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This should be noted positively at least in relation to the factor. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! But we also need to look at the problem areas and consider how we can finally meet the whole thing. If we look at traffic, we can find one thing: Mobility is, of course, a very essential factor in Austria, a land-based country; public transport must be used, but individual transport must also be maintained accordingly. I think it is more about the question of the drive and the drive we are using. When we look at Germany, we see that there has been a great summit of the automotive industry together with the German government, towards more e-mobility. This is also an economic factor. VW has converted a complete plant. Tesla now plans to build in Berlin a plant for the production of storage and batteries for electric mobility for 10,000 workers. We are discussing whether jobs are currently at risk at Magna in Graz. That means: Future technologies are also positive for the labour market, so it is also important to increase this intensity. A second factor, which is repeatedly referred to as climate relevance, is also agriculture. However, we should not condemn agriculture as a cause and cause, but rather see why agriculture takes place at all: That's the energy we all need to keep alive, that's the diet. If we can improve our production in the basic consideration of the common agricultural policy of the European Union with the European Green Deal and make it more sustainable, this can only be positive. Regional value-added cycles in production must be preserved, but then it will also need to be fully equipped with resources within the common agricultural policy of the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We must push back the trends towards free trade agreements, such as Mercosur, which would have negative implications for our production. This is about becoming more sustainable, but about securing production. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] We must also make the new technology take place. The European Union's Clean Energy Package provides for the re-regulation and flexibility of the internal electricity market by 1.1.2020. I believe that with new technologies in energy supply, but above all in storage technology and peer-to-peer technology, we can make citizens involved in the electricity market, not only as consumers but also as producers. I believe that with this change in the basic setting we will be able to develop a lot. We can also generate new opportunities for acquisition on the electricity market in Europe. That's a positive way we want to go. With the National Energy and Climate Plan, we will now show that we are moving forward with this planning. Of course, we still have to do the detailed work, but it will be essential how a new government is developing in this area, and I think that the signs are very, very positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5407	Next item is the report by Mrs Julia Herr. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5439	Mrs. National Council President! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators and spectators at home and at the gallery! Before us lies the Government's draft for the National Energy and Climate Plan. It must be transmitted to the European Commission by the end of the year, and it should clarify how Austria intends to comply with the climate targets. What we would have expected, or what I would have expected, would have been clear measures with an estimated impact, with adequate counter-financing and under the control of a guarantee that the climate targets can be actually achieved with this strategy. All of this is not the case in the present draft. Environmental NGOs, environmental organisations are not talking about a “reasonable roadmap”, about “seeking emptiness” and also about “banking declaration”. In my opinion, this draft is a blow to the face of tens of thousands of young people, with whom I recently went to the streets for the climate and who have been on the streets regularly for months to ask the experts here in this House not only to bring up the beautiful headlines, but finally to put on the table concrete measures in climate policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why, of course, we support the amendment tabled by Members Hammer, colleagues and colleagues, because it must be made clear that the National Energy and Climate Plan can actually achieve the climate targets by 2030. However, urgent action must also be taken, and it must be clear that we simply cannot afford to delay important emergency measures, as happened last Monday in the Committee on Budgets, and indeed, because Mr Kogler mentioned this earlier, we do not have the time to wait for the government negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we are today proposing a resolution for an annual climate change billion. To this end – we have already heard it – public transport should be expanded, thermal building renovation should be expanded and more money for research and innovation, for development should also be available. Why do I mention that again? – Because these are demands – I mean, the expansion of public transport, more money for research and development – which many colleagues and colleagues put on the bank in the National Council election campaign a few weeks ago. Only now do we suddenly hear the counter-argument that climate billions are not manageable, the money does not grow on the trees. Then I would like to point out that we are already paying EUR 1 billion annually due to climate change impacts. These are climate damage in the form of mole drains, floods, which are harvest exits. falls, forest fires. We're already paying for all of this. Would it not be more sensible to invest in climate protection, so that we may no longer have to pay for climate damage, that is to say, double the amount, these 1 billion, instead of having to spend it due to climate damage? - We've heard that too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are threatened with 6,6 billion euros of fines. Some people, some people, experts, and experts also expect 10 billion euros. Before we put these sums into the European certificate trade, we would rather put these sums in public transport, in the renovation of buildings and in research and in development! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we hear that it is also a matter of involving experts and experts, NGOs in a larger, whole climate plan, then I would just like to point out that NGOs like Global 2000 have also spoken with the request for much approval of this proposal, or that the WWF has also spoken with the Embassy, nothing to do now would be the most expensive thing that would be possible at all. That's why: Every euro we don't invest now, we pay ten times later, and we know who will pay it – these are the young people who go on the road. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let's get a back! Let us take an immediate action, clear, now and not in half a year! - Thank you. [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ.]] [[11:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5582	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Mag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, you're speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5606	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The legal basis for the National Energy and Climate Plan is European law, namely the governance regulation – you know – decided by the European Union within the framework of the Clean Energy Package, 2018, 2019, the four Directives and the four corresponding regulations, which also define the three major objectives of the European Union in this area, namely the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent compared to the 1990 reference year, the increase in the share of energy from renewable energy sources to 32 percent and the increase in energy efficiency compared to a hypothetical path if nothing is done by at least 32.5%. These are the objectives that are, of course, legally relevant to us and which constitute EU law. The National Energy and Climate Plan shall be drawn up on the basis of this Governance Regulation by the end of the year. So we're still on schedule, it's all right. I don't see that there are no measures in there either. You have read another paper, or you have not listened to the Minister of State or my colleague's smoke. There is probably a variety of measures in there. We liberals have always been strong representatives of environmental protection – for us environmental protection is home protection, that is a liberal tradition – but with measure and purpose, with reason, fact-oriented and without fear-making. [[Abg. Loacker: at tempo 140!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] At the same time, we are systemically thinking: This is an overall system, freedom of the environment and energy policy always supported by the environmental and energy triangle. These are three objectives that are balanced. Of course, a goal is the exit from fossil energy sources and the transition to renewables. We must not forget the security of supply either. These are some of the target conflicts. Above all, we must not forget the economy that brings us jobs and, on the other hand, the end-user. That is, we do not want the cost of the final consumer – these are our citizens – to go through the ceiling if you pursue a goal too unilaterally or in excess. That's not our access. We want a balanced and reasonable environmental and energy policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There we are already in excess or not overwhelming: The CO2 reductions in the non-ETS sector – we have already heard – are 36 percent. This is the EU's goal. You can say that's very, very ambitious. You can also say that might be overwhelming. The Greens will say: No, that's far too little! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, I said anyway!]] In any case, it is a significant increase compared to the minus 16 percent. Austria has committed itself to reducing 16 percent by 2020, and now it is 36 percent, which is more than a doubling, which is an EU-wide average target – most do not know – that is the so-called Burden Sharing system. There is also a question of European solidarity, who brings something in. I do not allow the Republic of Austria to be presented here – including the responsible persons – as a country that does nothing for climate protection, because we are just model students in this area, are always far ahead, in this case at 36 percent. You will now say: The Sweden even saved 40 percent! – Yes, Sweden also has a bit more nuclear power plants than we do, so it is easy to register 40 percent. The average in the European Union is 30 percent, while countries such as Poland have minus 7 percent. We can also call for more solidarity. In other words: I do not believe that Austria does not sufficiently fulfil its obligations, because Austria is making a very, very good and important contribution at European level. For this reason, we will not agree with the motion for a resolution which we support and approve in many areas or almost all areas, or we will make an amendment to it which differs only in the last sentence which we do not like. There it says: “The aim should be to reduce emissions to net zero as far as possible, but still before the middle of the century, and socially compatible beyond the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, in order to make Austria’s appropriate contribution to limiting global warming to 1.5°C.” – This is overwhelming and that goes beyond what the EU provides in its strategy papers – we are talking about minus 85 to 90 percent. It's overwhelming. What would be the appropriate contribution of Austria to limiting global warming? – We are talking about a total reduction to zero of CO2 emissions or greenhouse gas emissions in the small country of Austria. The contribution would be so – I would like to describe it graphically –: They have a swimming pool of 8 times 10 meters high, which is filled with the evil CO2 – which is really evil – and this belongs now to the mine or prevents the emissions belonging to it. With a complete reduction to zero, the contribution of Austria would be to remove a teaspoon of CO2 from this swimming pool. At the same time, dozens of coal plants are being built every day in Africa, China or the USA. This is a global issue in which we should not only call for global solidarity, but it must also take place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore propose the following amendment to the motion for a resolution. I have to read it out, don't I?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5674	Yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5690	I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5768	This amendment has therefore been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Leonore Geessler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5792	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In fact, it is good that we today allow such an important issue as the climate crisis and climate protection as broad space in the political debate, but unfortunately the occasion is not a joyous one. Unfortunately, in the discussion about the National Energy and Climate Plan, we see something like a bit sad highlight of the last decades' climate policy in Austria. Gottfried Kirchengast, the representative of science, climate science, at the National Climate Change Committee yesterday, in a joint press conference with civil society organisations – with Fridays for future, with representatives of the climate people’s desire – also found very clear words. I am sorry, Mrs Patek, the judgment of the technical community is indeed clear. In the reactions of the last few days, there has been much talk of planlessness, of inadequacy, of construction site policy. It seems to you that the construction site climate protection is unfortunately never finished. Under the motto Not my climate plan! Just last Friday countless young people were on the street to say: No, we need more, that's not enough! – The judgment is clear, from the activists, from the scientists of the Climate Change Centre Austria to the major environmental organisations that have already been mentioned. It is particularly difficult because, as an expert government, two things could be expected of the current Federal Government: The one thing I would like to do in this debate is to leave the facts to be facts and simply look really sober and honest, where we stand in the climate policy in Austria. The second is to present a plan that is suitable to turn away from the Republic the damage that can happen to Austria – including those that have been mentioned many times – and there is simply a clear need for improvement. I would like to stick to the first level: Where are we? – It was already a lot of talk today about our being a pioneer and making a very big contribution to the achievement of the goal. Unfortunately, it does not look rosy for Austria at the moment as far as the achievement of the goal is concerned. We will not achieve our objectives under the Climate Change Act for the third year in a row. We are not expected to achieve the mandatory EU 2020 targets. That is, the status quo is not particularly good and the need for action is huge. The share of renewable energy in the last place was falling again, and this, although we are actually starting from a very good starting point. We are far below what would be necessary when it comes to the thermal renovation. We are there at a rate of less than one percent, but we need 3rd. The traffic has been mentioned. There are currently 700 000 oil boilers and 900 000 gas heaters in operation. More oil heating is still being installed in this country than pellet heating. So that means that we actually have the facts that stand and just show that we need huge action. Neither can we cheat on these with beautiful words and with the appearance of a pioneering role. But we want to go back there because this is a great opportunity for our country. Only in this way will we avoid the penalty payments – yes, I am there! – only in this way will we reduce our import dependence on fossil energies and only in this way will we promote the regional economy. Climate protection is also really a survival insurance for Austria, so also for Austria and not only for the global south. That is why we also call for a comprehensive improvement of the climate plan. This and no less demand climate science in Austria. This, and no less so, calls for this request, in which the last sentence – which the colleague has just quoted and wanted to delete – comes from a request already adopted unanimously in this House, namely from that of the Climate Emergency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] [[Abg. Worm: Investigate exactly!]] It is nothing but the redemption of what we have already decided together. These measures must now be implemented effectively, and they must be implemented. Science is ready to participate. The scientists who have drawn up the national reference plan have still said yesterday that they have not received any response from the Federal Government to this point of view. – I find that very unfortunate too. Science is still ready to participate. I hope it is also the current Federal Government and it will also provide further improvements to our request by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5835	Next: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5859	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mrs Minister, I appreciate your role, so at the time you took over the responsibility to enter a transitional government as an expert and also to assume this role of experts. However, it has surprised me now when you said in your statement, so the climate crisis has only arrived a year ago. I think that may be your good opinion, but basically you also have to bear a certain responsibility, and you must assume your responsibility as a transitional minister. If we start from the National Energy and Climate Plan, which you have revised, and all the experts say that it is insufficient in terms of objectives and measures and not much better than the first proposed plan of the Turkish-blue government at that time, then I am very disillusioned. I would also like to take into account in my speech what it means to work out a national energy and climate plan and to think about the environment and the economy together. One important point, I think, is: What happened in the past? – In the past, we had to deal with three Vs: failure, heating and prevention. The failure concerns the point where we are talking about a non-profit tax reform, which also affects traffic. It is also a failure not to have the courage to say that we finally have to leave with the diesel privilege, we actually have to make a control that lets in and also lift this diesel privilege, when it comes to, whatever colleague Rendi-Wagner said, controlling these many trucks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] There the SPÖ lacked courage, which was also shown when we discussed before the National Council elections about what it means to work on the pendulums and other things and to abolish the diesel privilege. If only we were to deal with this tank tourism, it would be in Tyrol alone, I think, to limit the 100 000 trucks. [[Abg. Hear: Such a fool! Shit!]] Heating: I know that the SPÖ would like to provide heating subsidies again, but if we combined all these heating costs and would thus go into a renovation and an efficiency of housing, then the rents would not rise and the people would save themselves a bit. This is the old SPÖ culture, that you like to spread a few hundreds again and say: We're doing something for you! – Only these billions or millions, which are powdered out there, could be heated into a building renovation, which in the end will benefit the tenants again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] If one also sees climate change as an opportunity for the economy, then the example of Sweden is also to be mentioned. There was a massive investment in Green Energy with a CO2 tax, with a steering charge. There was massive investment in research. Only in this way has it been possible to increase growth above average and reduce CO2 emissions. This does not have to do with the nuclear power stations alone, but the very opposite is the case: It was invested in Green Energy and in research. What are we experiencing in Austria? – In Austria, entrepreneurs report to me, who say: First quote: We have excess green electricity in operation, but the bureaucracy prevents us from feeding. - Quote. Second quote: We would like to operate a district heating network with our excess heat, but we do not receive approval. - Quote. Third quote: We would like to install a photovoltaic system on the roof, a single tenant prevents it. - Quote. Fourth quote: We wanted to create a producer community. The mayor and the national energy suppliers sabotage it. Although our construction regulations require parking, but to install a power plug for an e-car, that is a skewer route. We would like to set up a line and sell directly, but the community is blocking. - Quote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I can give you some more examples. A problem solution is also lacking in this National Energy and Climate Plan. There is also a lack of central measures for debureaucratisation of building permits. I think we have to take care of the framework conditions. What about the spatial order? - We need a federal framework law. How does public transport look? – This is all thirty years old politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] [[Abg. Körl: Centralist!]] There, too, the ÖVP and the SPÖ have failed, because they have thinned public transport and now we say that there is no longer any one. [[Abg. Körl: Centralist!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] These are the problems we need to take care of. We must free ourselves from this bureaucracy, so that we can achieve the energy objectives, together with the economy. The environment and the economy must be thought together, that should be your top goal! They needed courage and had to take the responsibility to take appropriate steps as a transitional minister. They are particularly easy because you are no longer re-elected. This is the disappointing: We've got experts – perhaps coming from a certain point of view, a party – who are still listening to what the party says, and not what the next generation, the population and the economy need.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5955	The next item is Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e5979	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! First of all, I can welcome a group of the Economic Federation from Styria, which, despite the Styrian election campaign, has found the opportunity to come to Vienna. Welcome to the High House! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Mr Schellhorn, I am right in many areas, but in one thing I have to get something straight: There are more than 2,000 communities in Austria that give gas daily in the field of climate protection, and not just those that block something. Let us not confuse those who do something bad, but let us also show those over 2,000 who do much good every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all wish ourselves a politically active youth. This wish has been fulfilled in recent months. Youths have gone to the streets to demonstrate for the climate, for our earth. They cried out for their future, and this cry was heard. Climate protection has been omnipresent for hours now, and it has also been in the last sessions. In this respect, the actions of these young people have done much. The Greens are also in the National Council again. A strange political cooperation: Political fungus death brings the Greens back to Parliament; it also has a lot of good. At any rate, I would like to thank these young people for their main responsibility for discussing climate change here in this intensity. – Thank you! These demonstrations have also brought a lot of passion into the subject – a passion that we might not have had until recently. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only about creating bans, but also about creating incentives for us, the new People's Party, which has already been mentioned many times today. We need offers, we need bids and we need few bans in order to be able to implement climate change. We have to put the horse right and start at the base. I am back with the municipalities and the regions. If climate protection doesn't work there, it won't work too much. It needs the support of the citizen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The regions and the municipalities can do a lot. My region, for example, has recognised with all its decision-makers that measures relating to climate protection must be agreed, that climate protection promotion must be agreed, that a micro-oil is needed as an alternative to public transport to keep people mobile, and that energy space planning is needed to set the course for the future properly in spatial planning. My previous speakers have already mentioned that it is also the regionality that can do a lot for climate protection. I am also in the retail trade, ladies and gentlemen. We all have the power to reduce European freight traffic by making ourselves aware of what online shopping means and how much good regional shopping is. Accordingly, we should promote and support regionality. We need vital nuclei. Online shopping certainly corresponds to the spirit of time, but it cannot be the only truth, even in terms of climate protection. Of course, it also needs profound measures – I am also with my previous speakers. These must be at the top of our agenda, as the Paris objectives indicate. Here I come again to the eco electricity package which we decided about two months ago, ladies and gentlemen. With this eco electricity package as the direct effect of youth demonstrations, we are able to build annual photovoltaic systems in Austria in the size of 95 football fields – 95 football fields, year after year! This is a tremendous impulse towards climate protection, a tremendous impulse towards renewable energy, which we can very, very much look forward to. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, there are many great, sustainable, intelligent measures. But it also takes thousands of small measures, and I am also in the 1 000 roof programme, because I am in the measures that the regions can put in place. I think we are called on to do something for climate protection, and I believe we can do it; and I am convinced that we can create the climate for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6055	Mr Delegate Dr. Christoph Matznettergelanget as the next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6080	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues and listeners! An addition to Mr Stark: I'm not a friend of Amazon and Co, of those monopoly companies that make it difficult for our stationary trade to survive. But I'm not quite sure if your thesis is correct, that if 100 customers travel in mixed form to a specialist shop, they are less CO2 than if the mail – at my home in Vienna with an electric vehicle – is delivered to 100 packages in a street. I'm not sure I'd check that out. But now on our topic: After this Monday in the Committee on Budgets, I was actually prepared to talk – let us say – to the green friends and friends, but since this has begun so consistently today, I would like to make it a little different. I was elected to the National Council for the first time in 2002. At that time, a certain Wolfgang Schüssel at the top of the ÖVP reduced the FPÖ to 10 percent and from there brought so many voters that he came to 42 percent. At the time, there was an attempt to reach a government programme with the budget and financial expert Werner Kogler on the team with the ÖVP. My admiration and appreciation for the negotiator Alexander Van der Bellen therefore came to say no with backbone, propriety and all that belongs to it. That was with a reason why I was Sascha Van der Bellen supported with all his heart to become President of the Federal Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] He has done this with propriety, and this preservation of attitude is one of the essential things that we need. The human skeleton consists of a number of vertebraes and bones that cannot be replaced by a garden tube because the upright course would suffer. Then it is no longer possible to talk at eye level – the eyes would be these two body openings, where these glass devices are called eyes inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] To do this, you have to have an upright course. Everything else leads in wrong places. Honestly, my advice to the friends at the Greens is: [[Call the ÖVP:A fairy tale hour!]] There is nothing to do with the fact that you in the Committee, as if there were already a coalition, are bringing in amendments to the vote when the ÖVP's club secretary goes over and gives instructions for a short period of time. – That doesn't matter, it's worsening your negotiating position! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At the moment: The harder and stronger you act, the better it is. Now I am appalling what Werner Kogler said very sympathetically here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] – He didn’t always speak sympathetically. Feelings of 100,000 times – we have to look into the Stenographical Protocol – he has spoken about the robber's leader. [[Abg. Worm: Robber ladder!]] You shouldn't catch this vocabulary, Werner, for the next few years, you shouldn't have to hear that more often. In this sense, there is an opportunity for a paint must test today. You have stated that it is not possible to agree to the initiative proposal because it is still necessary to review impact assessment for ten years. Julia Herr has tabled a motion for a resolution which, if adopted, would only result in the Federal Government having to present concrete proposals now, as far as transport is concerned, going on with a billion, as we continue in the field of energy research, how we are doing the insulation. [[Abg. Kogler: There is no yes...!]] If you are taken seriously, Werner, you must have the backbone to get up afterwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what the vertebras have to do. That's what I wish. Why? – Because of the 660,000 voters who have elected you, a third of us have come, and these are decent people. [[Accompaniment with the SPÖ, as well as warmth and accompaniment of the Abg. Worm.]] They chose you to achieve something, and not so that the robbers might be made here. That's why I'm asking: Show this, do it, have backbone, get up, dear friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6199	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6229	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear viewers! I would like to thank you once again, Mrs Federal Minister, and of course also those responsible for the presentation of this very valuable paper to the previous governments. I am particularly grateful for the responsibility shown here at a broad level. This paper is presented against the background of a scenario, which should be thought about slowly, but certainly even once. It is about the raw materials industry and the automotive industry. Let's take the car industry in concrete terms: At present, around 50 000 jobs are lost to car companies and their suppliers in Europe. These are known names: Bosch, Continental, BMW, VW, Opel. 360 000 more jobs are in danger of losing over the next two years. These are jobs, as it always means so beautiful, these are jobs; that means money that is available for families and is spent, for children, for nutrition, for housing and so on. In the raw materials industry, it is likely that 10,000 jobs will be lost in Italy. Thyssenkrupp releases 2,000 employees. In Linz, we can wait for a similar step to be avoided, but probably it will not be avoided. In Germany, the IG Metall Mahnwachn – Mahnwachn is holding counters due to too high energy costs and too high environmental costs. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, one should also think about it when one goes here and calls this energy and environmental plan from scratch a bad one. I quote former Chairman Eder of the Voestalpine, he says: Those who believe, in the next 20 years, there are changes in the CO2 regime that are subject to utopia. - Quote. Yes, please, that shows exactly what the system is doing! In politics we have wonderful political scientists, lawyers, we have journalists and everything possible, and they explain to us ex cathedra, so perhaps with infallibility, as it now has to be done in the economy. – It will not work that way, and that is precisely why Europe's businesses in the US – in the bad USA, which sometimes have higher environmental costs than we do in Europe – or are off to Asia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need measures, that is quite clear. The measures cited in this plan are not bad. I also assume that the SPÖ does not reject the local transport billions, the research funds, the measures relating to spatial planning and hydrogen and the like, but even specifically supports them. But we also need more Europe, and more intelligent Europe – for example, that the 10 percent of the most environmentally friendly companies in the sector are released in terms of certificates, so that they are not double-loaded. I know that the different parties in Austria don't care, but that kills our economy and our jobs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to see more intelligent Europe when it comes to tank tourism, because every popular student can count together how much the trucks, which then drive to other countries, get to the gas stations. This tank tourism supports our Minister of Finance. If we drop it in the short term, 6 percent of our funds are gone. Some who always say that you have to take money into your hands, no matter what – but please do not do this in Austria with this already high tax burden, because the funds will be gone when it is so far! I also expect, of course, that in this Parliament, as it is always called, measures will not be taken against, but will be taken for the people. The population, the people, the Austrians are not represented by any NGOs, but by this Parliament. We should not decide something for the NGOs, but for the people. We want good action. We also want to respect democracy and take into account, for example, the signatorys of the climate people’s desire, but this applies to all popular desires and not only to those who fit an ideologically just nose. If he takes direct democracy seriously, I expect Klubobmann Kogler to implement it accordingly – otherwise he would have to be told of a backbone weakness. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for reasonable measures as contained in this plan, reasonable measures for the economy and, above all, for jobs and social outcomes in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6299	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6323	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A year ago, the most important side of the National Energy and Climate Plan looked like an empty A4 page. [[Keeping a sheet of paper in height, not printed except on a row]] It's not quite empty, above says: ‘Follow-up assessment of planned policies and measures’. ==References== November, one and a half months before we have to send this plan to Brussels, the page is still empty, the footnote has changed a little. This empty page is as empty as the promises of Austrian climate policy over the past 30 years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sir.]] Again and again, the necessary measures have been postponed or blocked. Although Austria has undertaken to be CO2-neutral until the middle of the century, the Wie has not yet answered. Climate scientists tell us: Our emissions will rise again this year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also, of course, about fulfilling our EU climate protection obligations, but this is primarily a moral obligation. It is a commitment to our children and grandchildren to respond to the question of how we can prevent the climate crisis from creating a climate disaster, as we can make an appropriate contribution as the Republic of Austria, and how we can achieve our climate change objectives, namely our Paris climate change targets. This paper, which you have submitted, honest Minister, unfortunately does not provide sufficient answers to these questions. [[towards Federal Minister Patek]] In spring, the EU Commission told us our plan, you know. For example, there is a list of climate-damaging subsidies – apart from the fact that there is no plan behind them, as we reduce them. There is even a lack of a list of these climate-damaging subsidies, there is no proposal as to how we finance all of this, there is no cost assessment. All of this is not included in this draft. And for impact assessment, present this empty A4 page. The draft is currently under review and I am already wondering: How should we give proper consideration to this plan if the most important information is to assess this Are plans – namely, whether the measures are sufficient to achieve the climate objectives at all – missing? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has already been mentioned: It is always this argument that it is only an expert government – transition, managed only. I thought at the beginning that this was finally an opportunity for climate protection: An expert government can count free of political constraints, research and submit a plan, give an objective answer to the question of how we can achieve our climate objectives, make concrete proposals. The leading climate scientists – also addressed – have made the effort to develop a several hundred-page reference plan. Unfortunately, these scientists tell us: We will not hear, there are no answers and nothing has been integrated from our proposals! You should have just written down – and you did not do that too – instead you have presented a package which, unfortunately, I must say, will not be enough. All experts agree. We know it is particularly bitter in the transport sector. We are going to miss our emission targets, as we are currently looking at them. I recognise that this has been improved, but so that it is simply too little – and this is so to speak, through the whole plan. I would like to give an example: They propose that taxis be operated free of emissions from 2025 onwards. This is a good measure, but in Vienna, for example, only 0.36 percent of all approved cars are taxis. That's not enough, I'd say. Other countries continue: In Norway, from 2025 onwards and in Sweden only emission-free cars will be re-approved from 2030 onwards. – That would be a courageous step. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They write themselves into the transport chapter of the plan, which is supposed to say how we achieve our climate objectives in concrete terms: It will not be enough and a large number of measures will still need to be taken, such as the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies and the ecologicalisation of the tax system. Just to write in, that it would be a good idea in theory, is just too little for me. I would have liked to see much more concrete proposals, which one can actually calculate. Yes, of course, there will soon be a new government, but every government has a responsibility at its time. You can't say either: I'm not responsible if the kid walks on the street, I'm just the babysitter, the parents come in early tomorrow, they should take care of it. – You now have a responsibility, you have a responsibility by the end of this year, and I ask you to respect this responsibility as well. The children and young people with whom I was back on the street on Friday said: This is not my climate plan, that is not our climate plan. – It cannot be our climate plan because this plan does not meet our emission obligations. I really wish we were finally doing it right in the field of climate change in Austria: not one single measure, of which we have no idea what they are bringing, but one overall plan, which is carried out in which there are regulatory measures, fiscal measures and, indeed, subsidies. I am therefore also pleased that our request will receive so much support, and thank you very much. Finally, because we have already spoken after the committee, Mr Matznetter, I would like to make one more suspicion why this time many People have decided to choose the Greens and not the SPÖ: My suspicion would be that people know that we have been doing climate protection for many, many years with full seriousness against all resistance and not only with cheap populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6421	Next item is the report by Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6445	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, seers and seers! I think it is quite appropriate for me, as a speaker for youth, and especially as a recent Member of Parliament here in the House, to give my first speech on the greatest threat to young people and to my generation. In the context of climate change, a threat, a disaster, is often referred to as costs. That always sounds so abstract, but what does that actually mean? – The average representative here in the Hohen Haus was born in 1972. With a little luck you will experience the 2050s. If we continue to act as before, the International Climate Committee expects – it is called the Worst-Case scenario, the RCP-8.5 scenario – that we will have a climate heating of 2.5 degrees. This heating, this condition will have a destabilising effect on ecosystems and on agriculture, and our health is seriously at risk. I was born in 1995. At a constant life expectancy, I will live until about 2070. In this worst-case scenario, we have reached a point where half the African continent and the Middle East will be uninhabitable. We will face hundreds of millions of climate refugees in Europe, but we will also have enough problems in Europe: Water supply in Spain, Greece and Italy is collapsing, agriculture is destroyed. The Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Belgium will have serious problems with sea level. In Austria, the Danube Plain and Burgenland are fully underway. For older people, every summer is life-threatening. The generation after me, the grandsons of the average Member here, will experience the year 2100 with a little luck. If we continue as before, the International Climate Change Committee expects us to have a climate heating of 5.5 degrees. Human civilization is difficult to imagine under these conditions. Everyone and everyone here who has a son, a daughter or grandchildren must understand: These are not horror scenarios or abstract models, it is simply and simply the continuation of trends in recent years and decades. The thing I just described is the world that you leave behind your children and grandchildren without being relocated. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] Although this problem is scientifically secure, the last generations have built up our economic system, energy supply, mobility on fossil fuels. My generation is the last to be able to prevent the consequences of this policy, but also those who will already pay the price for it. I am convinced – to conclude the whole positive – that it is not too late. With ambitious measures, we can rip the row around. But we need, among other things, an offensive national energy and climate plan. I would like to finish my first speech with an appeal to the existing expert government, but above all to the forthcoming government: You have a historic chance. You can be the first federal government to really stand up for the next generation, or only the last of many who continue to distribute pension sugar without thinking about a day-to-day, leaving us young with this huge challenge. Do it! Our boy, our generation, we're counting on you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6493	Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6518	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Advisor to today's National Council! As a mother of two daughters, I know that youth looks optimistically and confidently into the future – and that is right. For our Members this means taking these future issues into consideration during the next legislative period. The environment is a cross-sectional matter, because all the decisions we make in this regard concern most of the next generations. Every decision that will be taken here affects our country. But the consequences are for the adults of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. It is therefore our responsibility to work permanently for the next generations. The National Energy and Climate Plan should link climate protection with economy and agriculture. A first big step has already been taken with the withdrawal of the own electricity tax for photovoltaic electricity. Further points need to follow, such as the creation of the 100 000 roof-photovoltaic and micro-storage programme. The goal must be to reach 100 percent renewable electricity by 2030. The aim must be to comply with the Paris climate agreement. The objective must be to reduce emissions to net zero as far as possible and socially acceptable. In order to achieve these goals, however, we need a total social closeness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Under the motto of self-responsibility, the whole starts with each individual himself. Since 2017, I have even changed my own power supply to my small agriculture. For me, then, these are not empty words, but deeds that each one of us can put. We did not inherit the world from the parents, but we borrowed it from our children. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6557	Mrs Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6578	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I find it quite exciting that we are always talking about the children on climate change and climate change. It will meet us all, I think, and that is why I would like to continue with the thought experiment that Mr Shetty has started. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine the world, Europe, Austria, your home community in 30 years! What do you see? Flowering meadows? Snowy mountains? Social prosperity and cohesion? - I don't think so. I can't see it anymore. My picture looks like this: droughts, storms and floods make many areas of the world uninhabitable. Agriculture, agriculture and vegetable production are no longer possible in many places, will also become difficult in Austria. Winery will say goodbye to Scandinavia. 400 000 million people are on the run – these are not my numbers, they are well documented. The warming of the earth leads to the sixth mass death of living beings. The poles melt, the permafrost floor opens and many, many other irreversible developments occur. Why am I so pessimistic? – Madam Minister, I have heard your words; it must follow actions. And if I have listened carefully to Mrs Köstinger and understood her correctly, she has delivered the excuse for why we do not achieve the objectives of the future climate and energy plan, as she says: The others don't reach it either, so we don't have to do it either! This is not the case, because the greenhouse gases in Austria have risen for the third time in a row this year. Due to our production and consumption behaviour, we would currently need 3.3 earths. Earth will survive, ladies and gentlemen – we will not. 3,3 Earths: We are continuing to act as if nothing were business as usual, the Federal Government is presenting an insufficient action plan – we have heard this many times today – and on Monday, as cream dolls in the budget committee, a toll for five regions was also approved by ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens, and this in times when we have called out the climate crisis here in Parliament. As a biologist, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you: Take science seriously! A week ago – we heard this today – we received an appeal from 11 000 scientists to act better yesterday than tomorrow. This is the paper, five pages, not hard to read and well understood. [[Keeping a multi-paged document in height]] Let's take these scientists seriously! They also tell us clearly: It needs radical measures, not a little bit of small. We need radical measures in the area of energy efficiency, in reducing emissions and in protecting natural resources. If we don't do it, ladies and gentlemen, then we ourselves face much, much greater problems than 6.6 billion euros of fines – not only our children, we ourselves will experience it; our children and grandchildren all the more. I know that this is a dramatic picture, but it is necessary to finally do something in order for action to come in, and all our actions here in the House, in politics – that is our responsibility as a politician, as a politician – we have to subordinate to the objective of climate neutrality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We have already tabled a motion for a resolution today and I am now submitting a second one. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, it is a motion for a resolution, and to make it particularly easy for you to take this request – so that we can act – we have written it off from you, from yourself in 2014, by Georg Willi. [[Abg. Stögmüller: We know!]] I read the motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] What's so difficult? – The climate emergency is here, we can no longer wait. So please, I invite you to act, to take action! Of course, we need an overall and coordinated plan, but let's finally start and we won't wait until you finish the negotiations, have a budget, and maybe in a year we can start thinking about making an overall plan. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6715	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dr.in Astrid Rössler, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6742	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Watchers! Very different moods can be felt here today on the subject of climate protection, from a depressing vision of the colleague Hammerschmid to a very positive appeal by Mr Yannick Shetty. I was very impressed to feel the spectrum of emotion and responsibility. Nevertheless, above all, there is a high dissatisfaction and impatience regarding the present National Energy and Climate Plan, which – the criticism is of course justified – has considerable gaps, where there is a need for further improvement, and which also does not express what we would like in terms of the appreciation and appreciation of the previous participation. - That's the one side. After much criticism and many arguments, which are still missing, I would like to take a look at what is already there and what is the common position. There are many statements that you have to work on, there are many things to be completed. On the weekend, the Austrian youth climate conference took place in Vienna, where I met a colleague and a colleague from NEOS and SPÖ, and the young people's question was mainly: What does democracy do for climate protection? How are majorities and exactly the decision-making paths that we are talking about today, which are necessary, which we are not yet reaching, in which we need to improve? - There's no way to go in a rowing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I understand the impatience. Of course, I also understand the feeling of making such applications and saying: Green, now shows how and if you stand for it! – Yes, we are at the right time – at the right time. The most urgent task now is to improve and complete this National Energy and Climate Plan, but also in the coming weeks in the future negotiations to agree on the achievement of the climate targets – and I mean not only EU commitments, but also the commitments under the Paris climate targets – and this is also true. According to the Federal Government's mandate, climate protection has the highest priority – that was also the starting point for the resolution of 26. September of this year – also means to go to the population, to inform and to involve them. This too is part of the climate plan and needs to become more visible to the groups involved, the NGOs, but also, of course, to all the interests that have so far been involved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that the most likely controversial area, which will come to us as a whole, is still the subject of mobility and transport. I would also like to appeal to and give their hands to the colleagues of the FPÖ, because it was the report on the mobility of their clubman and former transport minister Norbert Hofer, in which many, many proposals were made at a very high level. Of course, these proposals should be included in the National Energy and Climate Plan. It would be very helpful if You could join this, especially this area will be particularly demanding. I would like to give an answer to the young people at the youth climate conference. Democracy and climate protection will continue to be much more required to deal with each other, at the right time, but with full strength and passion for climate protection and for the next generations who stand with us today, and to present a good climate plan.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6800	The next item is Mrs Tanja Graf's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6824	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home and at the gallery! Thank you first of all to Federal Minister Patek for her statement and her statement on the National Energy and Climate Plan. Climate protection is an extremely important issue. It moves us all, it's all busy and it also demands us all. We face major challenges both in Europe and in the world, both globally and nationally. But Austria does not have to hide, because Austria is one in the European Union. Austria is the leader in the approvals of e-cars, and Austria will be the first country without coal and nuclear power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also other examples in which we already move the Austrians to a conscious energy saving and measures that are of great importance for climate protection with our house mind and with incentives. As I said, a lot has already been done, but we also know that much remains to be done. As already heard and mentioned several times today, the National Energy and Climate Plan is currently under consideration, and further proposals and ideas will be included. It must also be clear to us that the measures proposed by the transitional government cannot contain every detail. What measures are finally being taken are political decisions that will be taken by the next Federal Government and by our MEPs in Parliament. We of the ÖVP – and also I as a representative of the economy – are, of course, clearly and clearly committed to environmental protection, and we are therefore very clearly and fully committed to the objective of climate neutrality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] However, it should also be clear to us that we must use a targeted level of home understanding in the further climate protection measures, i.e. incentives and promotions instead of bans and sanctions, because we can only tackle this issue together and solve it together. That is, we can only do this together with the economy and not against the economy. What does that mean in concrete terms? – In other words, we need to strike a balance between climate change objectives and the important objectives of a dynamic and competitive economy. Finding this balance is probably our biggest challenge and the most important political task of the next few years. Therefore – and I think that we all agree – a modern and effective climate policy cannot and must not endanger the competitiveness of our location and thus our jobs. No one has anything of it if businesses have to leave or reduce their commitment to Austria or Europe. It will also not continue if measures are put in place which cost jobs directly or indirectly. For people who have lost their job, climate protection here is nothing more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my view, therefore, the future focus of an eco-social market economy should have positive incentives and include an enhanced innovation strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already done something good here, for example with the eco electricity package, in which we have already decided to provide targeted support for photovoltaics, windwheels and biomass of 540 million euros. That's the right way! The wrong way would be: new taxes, burden and complicated bureaucracy. That can't be our way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The biggest lever for a good climate future comes from promoting and supporting businesses – in creative ideas and innovative implementations. The eco-social market economy is the best framework for this. And who could be better off than we are from the ÖVP, because we are the inventors of this economic model! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It really has to be clear to all of us: Something has to happen, we have to put the facts, and these say that we have to make our social and economic processes climateual. This includes personal responsibility, for each and every one of us can make their or their personal contribution to climate protection. We do not need laws to do this, we need insight and will to do so. Finally, I would like to say out of my inner conviction: Austria's entrepreneurs have long gone further on this question than you believe. The economy will continue to be the task of climate protection Do not withdraw. The formula for our success should therefore be: Innovation plus value added plus climate protection. That's the right formula!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6926	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e6951	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovana visoka hiša! It is not much less than our common future, which we have to tackle and for which we must finally start to act. The climate change made by man is not simply an environmental problem, it affects all the areas of our life, it is here, now and not elsewhere. As we sit here and I stand here, Venice goes down, the ice caps melt faster than we thought, and in the forest district the pests eat faster through the forest than we think because we have had less rainfall for three years than we need. This is everyday life in the Austrian forestry industry; and everyday life in agriculture is that we have a drought that we need to learn weather and finally total failures, because there are no instruments that would help us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we take the Paris climate targets seriously, then a climate plan, the instruments and measures need to be anchored. I was told yesterday that if we do not achieve these objectives, there is no single model that can calculate what the forestry industry is flourishing in Austria. No model can calculate what happens if we do not achieve these goals! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But it is very likely that agriculture also has its homework to do. We know about the scientists: 71 percent of CO2 emissions must be saved. We have to do this together: It must succeed in positioning agriculture as a solution, not as the problem. Visionary agriculture will also save CO2, visionary agriculture of the future will also be biological. It is not the agriculturally shaped Alpine region that adds to our climate, no, it is the intensive agro-industrial and mass animal husbandry that harms the climate and causes the enormous external costs and then does not carry them themselves – because we have to carry them, we all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need a clear yes to climate-friendly agriculture, and this is also a clear yes to organic farming, to soil improvement, to humus construction, to local CO2 bonding – for this it does not need a rubble, but fertile humus. It is a species-friendly animal husbandry that we want to meet both the demands of the animals and those of the environment as a habitat of all of us – and which is often considered to be self-evident by the mandatory Austrian farmers, but which is bypassed in the mass animal factories overseas. We are currently supporting an agricultural system that is damaging our environment. Health damage, damage to our social and social cohesion, damage to our farmers and, last but not least, harm the people in that country. Yes, the homework must also be done in agriculture to protect the climate! This requires us as legislators and also the ministry because we need concrete measures, concrete instruments – Without this, there will be no visionary agriculture in the future. Above all, however, it also needs a clear rethink, because the future has begun today. Let's do it now! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7029	There is now no more word for this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Julia, ladies and gentlemen, on "additional resources for climate action in the form of an annual climate protection billion". If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would like to ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alois Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of a 1-2-3 air-conditioning ticket and a comprehensive truck crew. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the resolution on the implementation of the national energy and climate plan annexed to the Committee Report 2 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Dr. Kassinger, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I will therefore vote first of all on the amendment tabled and, in the event of its rejection, on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 2 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give the amendment to Dr. Kassinger's agreement to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. As announced, this will result in the vote on the resolution on the implementation of the national energy and climate plan attached to the Committee Report 2 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[1/E]] [[12:49:22]] 3rd. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment No 7/A by Mr Hermann Gahr, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Roads Act 2002 (3d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7124	This leads us to the 3rd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Müller in our ranks and give the floor to Mr Alois Stöger as the first Member. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7157	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, spectators! High house! We have a subject on which it is about road traffic, about the toll of federal roads, about motorways. There has been a majority in the Committee on Budgets and would like to introduce a spotter in Austria where five areas of the motorway are to be excluded from the toll, with the argument that circumvention traffic can be prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: If you make passenger transport cheaper, will more or less traffic be produced? – If you make it possible to drive for free, the experience is that more people will use this opportunity and that the goal, namely less burden on residents, cannot be achieved at all. [[Abg. Haubner: You are always for free, only today!]] So what we are doing with it is exactly the opposite of what we discussed in the previous debate: We have discussed that we want to put climate action in place, we have discussed that traffic is an important element in the climate, and now we do just the opposite. Social democracy also stands after the election of what we said before the election. [[Abg. Haubner: It's not closed!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Salzburg and Tirol are for this!]] In particular, if you want to prevent the removal of traffic, you also need to take appropriate measures. There are national leaders who are calling on national governments to impose appropriate traffic bans, and they are also invited to control these traffic bans with appropriate personnel, with appropriate means. Then a discharge can be granted to people. That's what the population of us wants. I would not like to abstain from the following: In my constituency – in the Mühlviertel, in Linz – one has recorded pieces of streets, they are not yet built, and they are excluded. [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] That is to say, it is about pure populism, about playing one person against another, and not about finding solutions as to how to make a reasonable transport planning in the future. That is why we have clearly said that we want to go there temporarily and we are ready to do so. If you say we want to test this until 30.6.2021, we are willing to try it and gain experience to see if it is useful. The Committee has said no to this effect, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This would ensure that a temporary toll is possible and that we can decide on it here in Parliament. I would also like to point out that it is extremely difficult, on the one hand, to establish a number of exceptions in the law and on the other hand to give the Minister a general regulatory authority which is not determined. This is unconstitutional from our point of view. I shall also put forward a motion for a resolution on appropriate measures to avoid traffic in the form of tolls: motion for a resolution by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mr Diplômé, Mr De Clercq, on 'the motivating of routes' The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, is invited to submit a novel to the Federal Roads toll Act 2002, according to which the head of state for certain sections of roads which are not federal roads, can establish a driving performance-dependent and time-dependent toll within the meaning of this Federal Act by regulation in order to prevent toll circumvention traffic. The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is expected to entrust motorways and highway financing companies of the Federal Republic of Germany to the completion of the design of these sections. Appropriate exceptions to destination and source traffic as well as to passenger traffic should also be included in this novel.’ Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:56]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Independent motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alois Stöger diplomé, comrades and comrades on the motification of alternate routes in the course of the debate on the report by the Committee on Budgets on the request of Members Gahr, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Road Agency Act 2002 (3d.B.) In order to ensure that roads of the lower-ranking road network can be included in the mechanic of the Bundesstraßenmaut Act – at the request of the federal states – in order to prevent circumvention traffic. This will allow national leaders to implement active measures against so-called toll refugees. The technical and organisational design of the ASFINAG is in line with the idea of administrative efficiency, but also with the principle that the outflows of the ASFINAG result and are compensated by a corresponding scheme. This standard does not involve national competence. The decision on an appropriate procedure is solely for the respective federal state. The honourable Members therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, is invited to submit a novel to the Federal Roads toll Act 2002, according to which the head of state for certain sections of roads which are not federal roads, can establish a driving performance-dependent and time-dependent toll within the meaning of this Federal Act by regulation in order to prevent toll circumvention traffic. The Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology is expected to entrust motorways and highway financing companies of the Federal Republic of Germany to the completion of the design of these sections. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7338	Both the amendment and the motion for a resolution have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. Mr Peter Haubner has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7365	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Estimated viewers in front of the TV screens! I think there is a lot to be done, Mr Stöger. Today is a good day for the regions and for the communities that have had to learn the load of car car tolls in recent years. We are now taking a very important measure for these regions and communities: the toll exemption for cross-border sections of the motorway. [[Abg. Lightness: Since when... at the border?]] Mr Stöger, today's Parliament's decision concludes a chapter that has a history of 22 years. For 22 years now, we have been dealing with this issue in the House, namely, with people in the border regions and the need to relieve them of this evasion traffic. All the parties – apart from NEOS – who are still a little too short – have recognised the importance of this issue and have submitted applications for it at this time. The first one I have found, by Mr Haller of the FPÖ, is from 1997 and 30 to 40 requests have been made on this subject in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Three I can use as an example: 17.12.2013, Georg Willi of the Greens on Toll Liberation, 4.7.2018, Max Unterrainer of the SPÖ on Toll Liberation, 27.1.2016, Carmen Gartelgruber of the FPÖ for Toll Liberation – I do not speak of our requests at all. Why you do not agree with a request from SPÖ today, which you have made several times over the last two decades, you must explain in the regions, ladies and gentlemen, and not us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: This is what the colleague Stöger has explained very well, unlike you!]] Mr Stöger, you yourself were one and a half years of transport ministers, and you would have been able to solve this issue. You didn't do it! If you stand out here to criticize those who do it and solve this problem, I think this is a special chuzpe, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] You have even made a request at the last special meeting to introduce the extension of the toll to the national roads – a driving power and time-dependent toll for certain sections of the road. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think you know where the burdenors sit and where the excrementers sit. This evidence makes us very sure again today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl.]] I think it is very strange if you are against this, the SPÖ Deputy Mayor of the city of Salzburg speaks of one of the most reasonable transport ideas for Salzburg, which Heinz also claimed for many years. So there are things you don't have to understand, but I think there are also things that don't even understand the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. Let us therefore turn to the proposal, which is a very important issue: I come from Salzburg, from a border constituency, from the beautiful Flachgau/Tennengau, where traffic is the biggest challenge. In some parts of the city of Salzburg and in the surrounding communities, the daily tourism deviation rate is up to 40 percent due to German border traffic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] I believe that if you live there and suffocate daily in traffic, and if you want to drive out of a driveway and don't get out because the departure traffic clogs the community, then it is right and important if we decide today to take this measure of free ride on the highway for a certain section, ladies and gentlemen. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Vogl]] We in Salzburg have also needed 15 years to bring this proposal to a good finale today. Our head of state Wilfried Haslauer and also State Councillor Stefan Schnöll have been very committed to this measure. That is why it is a good measure if we take this decision together today. I would also particularly like to thank the Greens, especially their transport spokesperson Hermann Weratschnig, for the constructive talks and also for their support. I would also like to thank the NEOS for supporting this proposal, which is aimed at making daily life a little more pleasant for people in border regions. We are always happy to be there for people in Austria – this request for toll exemption is the best example, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7467	Mr Christian Hafenecker has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7489	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We heard it at the beginning of the discussion, today we are talking about a federal law with which the Federal Roads Act should be amended. I'd like to forward one thing: All the parties here in the House are probably concerned with finding a solution to relieve the trafficked population in these hotspot areas accordingly. That is why last year we followed the invitation of the head of state of Platter and held a joint transport committee in Tyrol, with for the first time in the history of Parliament a parliamentary committee of the National Council drove to a country day to find solutions. I found it exciting what was discussed there. We said: We need to find common approaches. We agreed that the Ministry of Transport should evaluate how these approaches can look. Then came the election campaign. I already have to accuse the colleague from Tyrol that once the polemics were put in place and that they did not even wait until the report of the Minister of Transport was transmitted – that was on 31 December. October. They immediately went to the offensive and said: We need to enforce this toll release now! You just used this as a cheap campaign polemic and tried to use the favor of the hour. Ladies and gentlemen, the nuisance of the fact that the head of state Platter from Tyrol itself had had the right to settle the problem Kufstein Süd with a ban on departure from the motorway. He didn't do that. He has always delegated this problem to Vienna, and it seems that the ÖVP is also holding fast. [[Abg. Lightness: That's what it looks like, interesting!]] At the end of the day, there is a certain Husch-pusch proposal that you, of the ÖVP, have not discussed with your colleagues in Vorarlberg. What is the point of this approach, which you are now presenting here? – It leads to the problem not being solved, but simply being relocated. If you look at the situation of Bregenz-Hohenems – which is a point that you have put in your request and which has also been mentioned – you can see that there is a decision of the ÖVP Hohenems that is being carried along, a resolution that has been said: That shifts the problem from Bregenz to us. – That means you didn't help anyone, in principle you only made cheap electoral polemics. Nevertheless, we do not, of course, want to help solve the problem. But the approach you present is far away from every reason. Your application states that a regulatory authority for the Federal Minister is to be decided. But what happens to the Federal Minister for Transport in the future? – Then he will be held liable here in Vienna for expanded local policy, and it will end every country election, every municipal council election with a call to the Federal Minister – whoever will be that in the future –: It is then necessary to implement this local policy at the end of the day in the ministry. The request you are presenting today is the beginning of the end – of which you must be aware – of the Austrian toll system. It is the costs we have to deal with here – carefully estimated at 35 million euros a year. That is 35 million euros that we will be missing at the end of the day when it comes to taking noise protection measures when it comes to building tunnels when it comes to streamlining traffic rationally. We fear that the problem will only be relocated. We know that this measure costs us resources that we have to bring back somewhere else. Perfide in history is also that no Austrian is relieved. 90 percent of the population concerned have motorway vignettes. What you're doing is a kneefall in front of the tourists coming to Austria. These you sponsor with Austrian funds, which we no longer have available for the transport infrastructure. [[Abg. Haubner: That's for the people! The Anrainers are Austrians!]] Nevertheless, there seems to be an intermediate performance – the Greens are already in it firmly and NEOS have also participated – for what is already heard in the west of Austria. You can hear that the toll system has been more or less in operation. These funds will be different in the future, there will be a CO2 tax or a comprehensive truck toll, no matter what. I ask you, however, to be so honest and tell the comrades and Austrians that you are already slipping in front of the greens on your belly and that you are already meeting intermediates for a possible coalition. Ladies and gentlemen! They have forged an alliance against the comrades, against the rural area. One thing I am still writing to you in the main book, and perhaps you are still talking to the Federal Minister about it: Have you already discussed the EIA – I am not discussing the Greens at all – what this means for the Maastricht criteria if these revenues are not met if the toll system has been destroyed? That's really a huge problem that comes to us. This is why: We are committed to a discharge for the citizens who are plagued by traffic. Nevertheless, we would support the fact that we really do not consider in detail any generalized solutions. That is why our amendment, which I would like to make, is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This ensures that this request, which you want to decide today, also needs to be evaluated and then not reversed, should not be the desired success. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:09]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7656	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted. Mr Hermann Weratschnig has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7686	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased today that, with my first speech, I can tell the noise and conspicuous people in the areas in four regions in Austria that we have a solution that we change everyday life especially in Bregenz and Kufstein. Today, we are reducing this important solution with the burdening and non-necessary evasion of traffic. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It would strengthen the citizens concerned if this decision were to be taken unanimously. We have the opportunity today to present a clear sign as a National Council at the beginning of this legislative period: That is why I appeal to all parties to give their consent to this request. We definitely don't want to let the citizens wait anymore. We know that in the short term it can only be a vignette exemption so that the necessary measures can be taken before the winter season this year. Since 2013, the effects have been known, proposals are discussed, proposals are being discussed, transport ministers are coming and going, who say they can do nothing because the legal bases are missing. We decide on these basics today. We need these needs to relieve citizens quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! What is definitely evident in this discussion about the freedom of the vignette is that the vignette – whether glued or digital – is not an instrument of control, but leads to a wrong navigation. On the example Kufstein this becomes quite clear and clear: Over 4 500 cars travel daily through the towns and burden the population there. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Vignetteman's been out of service for a long time. The Vignettetman, Mr Federal Minister, was never a superhero either, we know. We need superheroes in the future when it comes to installing a European toll system, a European toll system in which there is a fair, driving performance-dependent contribution for all those in all European countries. What we can do, however, is to try, in an overall review of control possibilities – via mineral oil tax and also through other possibilities – to solve this problem, which is also linked to the problem of tank tourism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need superheroes and superheroes at European level and especially climate ambassadors in Austria from all parties that help us to install this solution as well. Today, we decide five regions in which we will be able to test by 2021 to see if this measure of liberation is effective, and we have the time to develop and develop alternatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We also deliver the citizens from six years of waiting time by deciding today this quickly feasible option; of course, there is also a rapid implementation in these regions. There are still desires from other regions that need to be looked at. I see there is no danger that the Austrian system will be wavering. What we definitely need is to change the expansion of public transport and the possibility for counterparts. We need, as has already been said, an eco-social tax reform in which we consider the issue of mineral oil tax, in which we also consider an advocacy for all participants. We need an eco-social turnaround, and we need a lot of measures that also concern the toll. This toll proposal and this discussion now make it clear to us that there is a need for action. A last addition to social democracy: I believe that we also need a renewal of political culture. We Greens have our electoral programmes, our party programmes in the future, of course, in each sub-group, and we do not need to let every side be decided here as a SPÖ request. We know exactly what we're taking. We know what we are negotiating, and we will see that we are finding common rules there, and that does not require every side to be included in a SPÖ proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7759	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7783	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stöger has tried to strain the great bow and also to carry out the very critical aspects of this request. But let me address from my side the toll flight and the problem in a affected region. Mr Haubner, you are right in one point, we have been discussing this for many, many years, and in fact there have already been initiatives from all political camps, this process, this problem that there is a shift in traffic on the low-level road network. I am firmly convinced that it needs a discharge. We need a discharge in the regions that are particularly affected. Five regions or five sub-areas in Austria are listed. I believe that in the border areas – whether it is in Vorarlberg, Salzburg or Tyrol – there is always an increased problem in this question of toll flight. The question is: How do you solve this in detail? – In detail, ladies and gentlemen, this request is inadequate and bad – in detail! I am trying to explain to you where the two main criticisms of this request are and why we are so serious about the existing form of the ÖVP proposal. The first is – Mr Stäger and the previous speaker of the FPÖ have already done it –: It is deeply questionable whether the regulatory authority considers constitutional for a Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already in favour of that, when we do something and we set the goal of relief from the local population, which must then be done properly and not so that there is a pass in it that will probably – quite certainly – not keep constitutional. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not talking now about the pressure on the future transport ministers – I do not want to talk about this pressure at all – but we are making this toll system really bleak. We are doing so in a bleak way, and not what we actually have in mind with this proposal, namely creating a discharge for a particularly affected population and for a region particularly affected. We will not succeed in the future. I therefore believe that we should take this one pass, as our amendment says, in order to prevent this constitutionally difficult part. The second is – and because the Greens are unfortunately wrong in the argument, because this evaluation is nowhere specified in this law –: We want, and I think that is our responsibility, too, for the measure to be evaluated. We want us to look at this: Does it work or does it not work? – You don’t need to call in there, read our amendment and agree because it’s inside! [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Will be until 2021...!]] We want this evaluation, we want this time-limit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So simple: What does it need? – There needs to be a measure that relieves the population and the regions from the local eviction traffic. The second thing it needs is a constitutional security, so that this measure also holds, and the third party, what it needs, is a proper evaluation; a proper evaluation of whether this measure is also taking action. And it also needs the courage to say it if it doesn't help. If it's the wrong story, then we also need to have the courage to say: It didn't work! – If it works, it is clear that it will continue. It is therefore necessary to relieve the people concerned of the evasion of traffic, to create a regulation that holds, and to evaluate as third parties, and also to give the communities who are now concerned about being on the verge of the mausoleum areas a security that it is properly evaluated and looked at. Therefore, if we ask the question of how we can achieve the broadest possible consensus, I appeal to the Greens and the ÖVP to look at our amendment, which would address exactly the two points that I have carried out, which we see critically, and thus really create a broad majority for the relief of the affected population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7832	Mr Dr. Johannes Margreiter has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7856	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I'll start with Europe. The problem we want to address with this planned amendment to the Federal Roads Act will ultimately only be solved at European level in a sustainable and final way. What we are now deciding on is an immediate measure which, given the massive burden on the population of the regions concerned, simply cannot be discussed so intensively and in depth. It has already mentioned to previous speakers how much the situation is in a stressful way. I know the situation in Kufstein, I looked at it very closely. On holiday weekends, when the holiday shift takes place, it is sometimes not even possible for vehicles to drive to their destinations, because the low-ranking road network is simply so burdened by the bypassing traffic from the motorway. In view of this situation, all other arguments fade. They are given, I don't want to talk about them, and we have also looked very closely at the situation in the club. We have also looked at the arguments of the Minister for Transport. They have weight, that is not a question at all, but on the other hand is the burden on the population, which has really achieved an extent that an immediate action is necessary. As a Tyrolean, I am really glad that the situation in Kufstein is now being corrected by this change of law, I would like to conclude, however, that it is a European problem in the end – and this is very fitting to today's issue of the current hour. Three of these regions affected by this legislative change are border regions. I do not really like to talk about border regions because they are internal borders. We are in the common Europe, but it is in fact limits, since we simply do not have a single toll system in Europe. If we have heard today about how important it would be for us to bring Europe's people back into the boat and stimulate this common European idea, I believe that this works best by taking measures that enable Europe's people to feel the common Europe, as it was with the single currency, or as border controls have fallen. These are added value for the population. It would also be a common European toll system, a single system, so it would no longer be necessary to pick up the windscreen with the various toll pickers when you travel a lot in Europe. This should be the goal of a European policy, and for this we should make ourselves particularly strong as an Austrian, as a transit country. However, I would ask that the proposal in this form be accepted so that, in view of this acute burden, especially when the winter season starts, the population will be relieved in this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7902	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7932	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers in front of the TV screens! One thing seems to all parties, namely to relieve the transient population, but what was initiated by the ÖVP today and presented to the National Council for decision-making with the support of the NEOS and the Greens, does not do so. Mr Haubner, you come to the speaker's desk today and say it's a historic day, it's a big day, we decide a milestone. Before we take this decision, there is already the most massive resistance against your initiative in Vorarlberg. It can't be historical! That means you're going over the affected ones and then you sit here and say we're doing something historical. I can quote from the APA: “With some Rheintal municipalities this creates indignation:” – your proposal – “Highems, Altach, Götzis, Dornbirn, Lustenau and also the Swiss community Diepoldsau want to examine ‘all available remedies and proceed against this decision’ if this is decided today. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what they're thinking!]] Part of your request is thus once again a husch, that is, in relation to the situation in Vorarlberg. In Upper Austria, motorway routes are excluded which are not yet built. We can put this ad acta right away. What's left? – The burning problem Kufstein, Kufstein Süd and Salzburg. That is why, as the Freedom Party, we have today tabled an amendment – presented by Mr Hafenecker – which takes into account precisely these points. That means, for all spectators: As a Freedom Party, we are responsible and want to exclude the transitory Kufstein population and the Salzbur-ger population from the obligation of vignette. That means we want to relieve this population. [[Abg. Haubner: You just need to agree, colleague Hauser! I agree! I agree!]] What we do not want is to take part in a law that, for example, burdens other regions, such as Vorarlberg, and shakes the Austrian toll system into its foundations. Your request will result in an estimated loss of revenue of 35 to 40 million euros for the Asfinag. This must also be said to the people of Tyrol, because Tyrolean mandates vehemently submit and demand this request. The consequence will be that, on the one hand, fewer noise protection walls can be built and, on the other hand, the construction of the Tschirgant Tunnel in the Tyrolean Upper Land may be threatened if the funds are not available. You have to say that too! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haubner.]] And please also say that your partner in this decision-making, the Greens, says it's the end of the vignette proclaimed. This has to be clearly stated today: You want road pricing, you want to make a kilometre-related toll with this decision-making process today, which will also burden the population. As a Freedom Party, we do not want new taxes, we do not want any additional burdens. The opposite is the case! We have an expenditure problem, we have to see that we are getting the expenditure under control and that we are not permanently getting involved in the pockets of the population for new revenue. Kufstein South: The problem with Kufstein South is unique, that's hard. Prior to joining the European Union – I was in the Tyrolean Landtag – Tyrol has been scrambled, and it has been found that we have a transit contract with a maximum of 850 000 transits through Tyrol. We have already doubted and criticized this at the time. What's it look like today? – Today we have 2.5 million transit journeys, north-south transit, past Kufstein, through Tyrol! We have 10 to 11 million cars that transit this area. It comes – thank God, I say – the tourist traffic, especially in winter. It's a pleasure, it's tourism revenue. In total, however, it is a maximum burden on the Kufstein population, which is to be relieved. This makes it clear: If our amendment does not go through and therefore the opposite cannot be reported in the media, we have decided as a Freedom Party to take the following action: We have voted on our amendment – as mentioned, Kufstein Süd, Kufstein, Salzburg – and we want this today's decision to be evaluated and, above all, we want the Minister not to have a regulatory authority, so that not every municipality, every mayor can run to the Minister in order to bring about freedom of expression. If our amendment – dear Kufsteiners, dear Tyroleans, dear Tyroleans – is rejected by the majority today and here, we will agree to the request of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS in third reading, so that the Freedom Party is not left to be against a discharge of the transit-patched population. - Thank you. However, please consider our request, which is a failed, reasonable request! You have already opened the construction sites, Mr Haubner, because in Vorarlberg there is already massive protest against this decision, which has not even been taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e7988	I call Mr Hermann Gahr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8026	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We have an intensive debate on an application for the Toll Act. Mr Stäger, the countries cannot impose bans according to their wishes, but we have been trying for six years to find solutions between Asfinag and Land for the villages, which unfortunately was not possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Mr Hafenecker claimed that no Austrians will be relieved. Yes, Austrians are relieved, many citizens in the municipalities of Ebbs, Niederndorfdorf – on the German side Kiefersfelden – and the city of Kufstein are relieved. Mr Einwallner, the request is very likely to include an evaluation, and I believe that by spring 2021 we will be able to evaluate and report on what impact this will have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have been fighting for many years for this toll release, because there are very simple problems, and it has also been a concern for us to take other regions seriously. I think we can only draw conclusions from it if we have a total picture of it. It was of course triggered by Kufstein, our country captain Günther Platter, and today a decision is taken so that we can reach the 15th as quickly as possible. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Einwallner: Can we do eh!]] There used to be a regulation that had been approved without long-term legal controls. She's been working! There have been no problems, after six years of joint commitment. Mr Haubner has already expressed it today, because there have really been many requests from all the political parties. [[Abg. Einwallner: Yes, the amendment! That's right!]] After all, we agree on the whole, it may be the way different, but the goal should be the same for all of us: It is about the discharge of the population. Two reasons are decisive for this Decision. On the one hand, on the other hand, there is a strong traffic through tourism just in Tyrol – fortunately – on the other hand. Our guests want to travel in a stateless way, but we also have day-to-day tourists and there are also many locals who are looking for relaxation on the weekend and are therefore in the reservoir. That is why I do not think it is reasonable that we should be burdening our population on the weekend that should serve recovery. The second specific problem is the Kufstein Hospital. There have been huge problems because of the constipation of the streets in the city of Kufstein. This has affected the accessibility of this public hospital. Especially in emergency situations, it should be so that you can reach the hospital as quickly and safely as possible. This is an important decision for the regions, from 15. December, I think, we can draw the conclusions from this. I would like to thank the colleagues who have been massively committed to this in advance. This was also the colleague Schimanek, but that was also my colleague Josef Lettenbichler, also our transport speaker Andreas Ottenschlager, and all those who have tried intensively in recent weeks to make a decision today. To conclude: The fact is, it is about the discharge of the regional population. The fact is, we don't get rid of the toll, the vignette remains. The fact is, we will evaluate the exceptions concerned by the beginning of 2021. The fact is, we also give an order, and we have made a so-called committee statement that we have overall assessed the effects of this transport and have shown alternatives. The fact is, however, that: It is about the discharge of the population, and this is what we are doing with this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8090	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8112	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased today first of all with the affected Tyroleans and Salzburgers that a solution is found, that a solution will be implemented and that a discharge will be granted to the inhabitants of these areas. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am quite glad that the ÖVP has already prepared a little of the story today. I take only the last requests from Carmen Schimanek and Gartelgruber and the way they were dealt with: introduced in 2013, postponed in March 2014, postponed in November 2014, postponed in April 2015 – with the argument that a common big solution had to be found, one had to find a solution for the whole of Austria, one had to find solutions that protect the Asfinag and its purpose within the meaning of the finances of the Republic of Austria. Now it seems that it doesn't matter, or it doesn't. I'm excited what the consequences will be. I am not open to discussion, and this is the vignette discussion. My dear colleagues from the ÖVP, when you've been listening to ÖAMTC over the past ten years, it was said again and again: no road pricing. The applications and attempts of the slightly unhappy Slovenian EU Transport Commissioner, who is going through Europe, are also a damage to Austria. I hope you stay there, even if the self-proclaimed Green Transport Experts say the Vignetteman is over. Keep the flag of Austria up here! We know the experiments and experiments of the Greens from Salzburg with the eighties around the city of Salzburg, which was supposedly so necessary and important and now – thank God! – the ÖVP wants to end again in good time for the country election. This is a damage to the whole federal state, and I hope you will be able to avoid this damage that would result in consequence from the Asfinag for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8151	Mrs Mag. Nina Tomasellige is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8175	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to come here today as a fortune teller and tell you one thing: I think that today's decision will be a quiet farewell to the vignette. This quiet servus is a very, very good farewell, because in fact the vignette is above all a means of raising money. She has a steering effect, but unfortunately a wrong one. The Vignette prevents drivers from using the high-level road network. That's been the tricker of this instrument for 20 years. It is simply illogical if we allow an instrument to allow the drivers to drive over the rural communities instead of using the motorway, to cause traffic, to cause dust, to cause accidents and to promote noise. I don't understand why you're still going here and sticking to this outdated concept. In fact, if you look at the vignette – Mr Stöger, you have taught us in environmental policy – it is therefore a single nonsense, because the drivers who drive especially much are rewarded with the vignette, while those who drive little have to pay more. Those who drive more pay less for the miles. It's just illogical. [[Abg. Deimek: Thank God that's just your opinion!]] What we are doing today is a purely emergency solution to the situation of the particularly traffic-troubled border cities, because it was only created by this unecological instrument of the Vignette. If I remember correctly, that was a black-red project, and it would also be good for you to admit today that you just put on the wrong horse. Again: It's basically about repairing a bad condition. That is why I am not going to cry out in gladness when it comes to today's decision. The abolition of the toll – you can admit that calmly – is, in a way, a shift in traffic. This liberation of the individual sections of the motorway is only a second-best solution, but there would be a much, much better solution. A very, very good solution would be to increase mineral oil tax to the same extent and eliminate the vignette at the same time. Mineral oil tax has never been introduced for this purpose, but is still one of the best and most efficient environmental instruments at all. It ensures that energy is used efficiently, and yes, it also ensures that transport is limited only to the necessary. We have heard a great deal today about dealing with the climate crisis. And yes, that's the human task of 21. But in order for us to get that, we have to pull all the records. We must adopt regulatory instruments, we must completely eliminate the harmful incentives, but we also need a wise use of taxes. If we only raise the mineral oil tax by a little, only by 5 cents, we could very, very much turn back from traffic, very, very much prevent emissions and do a lot for the environment. The Vignette, on the other hand, does nothing for the environment at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8212	Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer, speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8236	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home and here at our gallery! Tirol says thank you – and that with loud voice. The loud voice also came from our head of state, who has been working for this topic for a decade in Kufstein-Kiefersfelden. I would like to explain briefly what this means for the population in Kufstein: People can breathe up, breathe properly, because daily driving in a small village like Niederndorf near Kufstein, which has a population of 2,700 inhabitants, 4 500 cars. That is, they're going to hitchhike there; it's hard to think about whether you're going out of a garage, driving to shop. The biggest problem, however, is that the forces, neither fire brigade nor rescue, or others, are able to come to an emergency normally, and that is the biggest problem that we actually have. Transit is a major problem in Tyrol. We don't remember where the traffic is, we're suffocating in traffic. I would also like to say one thing about the statement that we are losing money here. So with me at home – and I went to folk school at the age of six – is zero. If I don't sell a vignette, I can't take it either. I personally do not understand how the Asfinag comes to a loss of revenue, because the people who drive there do not buy a ten-day vignette for over 9 euros. They do not drive 5 kilometres on the motorway, but they drive on the lower road network, they do not buy a 10-day vignette, so there is no loss of revenue. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have been very active here. I would also like to thank the FPÖ for now accepting this request. Thank you! [[Abg. Deimek: Because you did not agree to our better!]] I would like to address the appeal to the SPÖ once again, because Max Unterrainer has tried very, very often, to find a solution for the Tyrolean Unterland. – Hopefully you go in and agree too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8273	Mr Kai Jan Krainer came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8297	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It was precisely and even before from Mr Weratschnig that the call for unanimity on this question came, and that was right, because we are all very, very close together. We all want for these four regions – Linz is not a border region, this is another special case that could be discussed – that these toll refugees do not travel through small cities or through villages. This is what everyone here wants, but there are a few points in which we distinguish. The first is that we have said that, after a legal evaluation – that is to say, a statutory assessment must be made – it is decided whether this measure was reasonable or not, and that is why this measure is limited in time. ==References====External links== December in force, the question is only whether it will be infused for eternity, even if it does not make sense. There are fears in all political groups, there is no one here sure that this solution is the ideal solution. There are enough people in all political groups – we have discussed this in the Committee on Budgets – who are concerned that this solution may not be so good and does not work. This means that the term and legal evaluation are necessary. What are the concerns that exist in all political groups, which could be negative? – One has already been said that it does not solve a problem, but is moving a problem. This means that you don't have the problem in Bregenz, but in Hohenems or in Altach or more where you don't have it today. That means that we don't solve a problem, but just move it. This is not what anyone wants, but these fears are common throughout all political groups, so please be brief! The next thing is, yes, it's counted how many cars are driving through villages now. But then even the Asfinag says that she estimates that only half of the tolls are refugees and the other half are refugees. And the traffic jams won't bring you to the highway if they don't have to pay toll. They did not flee from the Toll, but before the traffic jam, and the traffic jam on the motorway does not become smaller, but rather bigger – the traffic jams do not get away with it. That is, if we look at it after a year, whether it has brought anything at all or not, then it is reasonable to enter this time-limit and also this legal evaluation. The other point raised is the cost. Now the colleague of the ÖVP has said that there is no loss of revenue at all. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the ÖVP itself said in the committee that it is counting 28 million euros toll for the Asfinag. That is to say, the applicants themselves say that we will receive around 28 million euros less from mainly German drivers, and this money is of course missing. This money will be missing from noise protection walls, and we will miss this money in tunnel safety. There are also others who say that it costs much more, that costs 30 or 40 million euros, and there are calculations up to 75 million euros. I think that is too high, I'm rather at the 30 million euros, but these calculations are available. – That's why we really look at this evaluation: What's that cost? What does that bring? Do we have the desired effect or do we have to take other measures? There are also a number of other proposals on how we can protect these villages from toll refugees and from far too much transit traffic. That is why the appeal: Unanimity likes to, but only if there is a legal evaluation and also a time-limit so that we really look at ourselves: Does it bring what some hope for, or does that lead to what some fear? Then we have unanimity, the two points, then we are there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8346	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 3 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues and a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Stöger, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Hafenecker. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate voting, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of the Hafenecker, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning the withdrawal of paragraph 4 and resulting renumbering in § 13 para. 1a. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately reach a separate vote on § 13 para. 1a Z4 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Hafenecker, colleagues, and Members of Parliament Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, each have an additional or amendment concerning the deletion of the paragraph. 1b entered in § 13. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – That is the majority, that is to say, it is accepted by the majority. Mr Hafenecker, colleagues, and Members of Parliament Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, have each submitted an additional or amendment concerning paragraph 2 of the same text. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who advocate a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Hafenecker, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment concerning Z 3 para. 13). Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Mr Stöger, Members of Parliament, have an additional request concerning the insertion of a paragraph. 16 in Z 3. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Hafenecker, colleagues, and Members of Parliament Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, have each tabled an additional or amendment concerning the deletion of paragraph 4. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alois Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, on the 'advantage of aberrant routes'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[13:52:44]] 4. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG), BGBl. No. 1/1930 idF BGBl. I No. 194/1999, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 57/2019, amended (9/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8503	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has submitted an application for an amendment to Article 41 of the Federal Constitutional Act, which now regulates paragraph 2 that popular desires supported by at least 100 000 voters should be dealt with in the National Council. They were then usually discussed, disputed and then, unfortunately, rubbed. That is why we have decided to encourage a second paragraph of paragraph 2a, which provides that people who have at least four percent support for those entitled to vote, have received about 250 000 votes in a second step of a mandatory referendum, provided that the National Council does not decide within one year to legislate the content of popular desire. So this is really a real popular initiative, a civil right, on the basis of which citizens can enforce a law because of a successful popular desire and a majority of the referendum. This requires a constitutional change. However, we really think it is a very serious, legitimate concern that the participation of citizens in the lawmaking process will be strengthened again, because if politicians are to be removed, acting too self-powerful, then we must also remind the political elite that the population is the boss. The population is to be the client to politics, because the population is not the commander of – as is often said – alternatively without instructions. It is therefore about the commitment of politics to the will of the people, to the election promises and to the proximity to the electorate and the commitment to the majority will of the electorate. It is revenged when this closeness and commitment is ignored. Today, we have also discussed two international events, both of which have a direct democratic character: the Brexit and the fall of the Wall 1989. The Brexit will now be very much used as an argument against the expansion of direct Democracy used, so to speak: You see what comes out when you ask the people. I would like to oppose this very clearly and decisively: No, the population has decided clearly, it has had good, comprehensible reasons. Each survey makes it clear that the 2015 migration crisis, the political loss of control in Germany and also the development of the EU into a central state, which has no closeness and commitment to EU citizens, were the main reasons for voting for Brexit. Rather, it was the failure of purely representative democracy that the will of the British population was not implemented and, above all, the failure of the Brussels elite, which, in the run-up to the referendum, should have taken into account the legitimate concerns of the British people and should have taken this as a reason for reform in order to make the EU more democratic again in order to re-establish the proximity and commitment of the majority of the EU population. Ursula from the Leyen is surprised that Europe's voice is not heard in the world. Yeah, of course not. Russia, the USA, China, India all know that the majority of EU population is not behind this wanted central state. And a creature who cannot and does not even want to protect his boundaries is not taken seriously. I would therefore suggest that the President of the Commission, before even thinking of spending a euro of the one trillion she intends to spend on climate protection, once concentrates on external border protection, because this is what the overwhelming majority of the EU population wants and it would be a direct democratic act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second incident, the 1989 Wallfall, is actually the largest direct democratic act of the last decades. It was a breakthrough of popular will, and the population was right there. It has peacefully enforced its desire for the removal of the internal German border. It was perfectly in the right, in contrast to our borders, the EU external borders and our national borders, which are not to be swept away, as is unfortunately the case at present, but which must be protected. We look forward to further discussions on the development of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8585	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Friedrich Ofenauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8609	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! At a so-called first reading, we are in principle discussing a change in the federal constitution on referendums and popular desires. In principle, first of all: The new People's Party represents civil society involvement, voluntary participation, participation by citizens. This happens daily in the most diverse associations, but also in the processes in communities, such as village and city renewal or community21, where people actively participate in their immediate environment. The Austrian People's Party therefore also stands for direct democracy, and it has the ear not only to the citizens but also to elections. We now have a proposal for a law here to improve direct democracy. And how? – By a popular desire that has not been implemented in the National Council, after a year becomes a referendum. In my opinion, this is not really an up-to-date, but a simple change: a second time ask for an extension, an increase in the effort for those who are primarily concerned with the execution of such operations – primarily our communities. I think that can't be the goal. I believe that strengthening, genuinely strengthening such direct democratic instruments can be achieved by providing objective information to all, especially citizens, through a broad discussion of a subject; otherwise, there is a danger that issues will be used populistly and will only serve to legitimise their own political agenda or opinions. The example of the Brexitab mood has already been mentioned. I commend this, for example, to the incidents surrounding Cambridge Analytica, or to the influence of opinions by advertising, by political advertising, which is not recognizable as such. Another criticism of this is that there are no exceptions. I think it can and must not be possible for all areas to be subjected to a referendum or popular desire. Just think of human rights or minority rights! I think there must be restrictions, and it does look at this law, which does not provide this template. I also think that 4 per cent of those entitled to vote would be around 256 000 people at present. Another criticism would be that a popular desire aims to pass a law. In a referendum, however, the people vote on a law decision of the National Council, i.e. that vote must be formulated as a yes or no question. But just to vote on the content of a popular desire, without there being at all a legislative decision, that somehow doesn't work. Something's missing. Another point: If a popular desire already contains a legislative proposal, and then a referendum is held, and it should then enter into force, then this would be an overall change of the federal constitution, because the National Council no longer decides the law, but it should be done directly through this popular desire, through this referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A legitimacy of political opinions, of what happened, and of what is to happen, I think, is happening during the elections. And there are the citizens on the 29th. This year it was exactly shown who was given the preference. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8664	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Jörg Leichtfried. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8689	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen who listen or watch! I would like to go into this debate with a quote from our President-in-Office. After getting to know the processes around Ibiza, he coined a concept that was very elegant, he spoke of the beauty of the Austrian federal constitution, of the elegance of the Austrian federal constitution. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Elegance, elegance he said!]] And that's right! Our constitution bears these attributes, ladies and gentlemen. It guarantees a very good balance in the political system. It also shows that direct democracy on the one hand and representative parliamentary democracy on the other are not necessarily opposed to each other, but can form a good symbiosis. We certainly agree that we already have instruments of direct democracy in our constitutional system, which are very well integrated into our entire legal order. It is also important to me to make it clear that we Social Democrats consider both elements of this democratic system, on the one hand the representative, on the other hand the direct democratic, to be very important – but always in a certain balance. From this point of view, I must say now that the FPÖ proposal is not good, one could even say that it is a bad proposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] They take out a single measure which – and my previous speaker has already done it – can, in extreme cases, lead to 3 to 4 percent of the electorate in Austria deciding on the heads of the rest, that is, more than 96 to 97 percent, and that also in matters that are contrary to EU law, which can violate freedom rights and which are suitable for truly developing concerns of a constitutional nature. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore not agree to your request. Let me conclude by saying: If you had lived up to your direct democratic commitment in the time of your government participation, you would now be a touch of credibility on this question. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8745	Next item is Mrs Dr Alma Zadić's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8766	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The strengthening of direct democracy has always been a very important concern to us Greens, so of course we also welcome the strengthening of direct democracy. Direct democracy can also help to strengthen the participation of citizens. It can move citizens to really carry their displeasure directly into Parliament and to give them a direct mandate to the government. There are many ideas and concepts on how to strengthen direct democracy and ideas and concepts that one can develop, especially with regard to the integration of the Internet – all interesting, innovative ideas that one should also discuss together. But if we want to strengthen direct democracy, we must bear in mind that it also poses dangers. It is also suitable for illiberal use, and we should not underestimate this illiberal use. We must therefore consider that these instruments can also be used, for example, to the detriment of minorities. We also need to consider that they can be used to undermine the necessary limits of power. In this context, I also have to mention the Boulevard media and their power, because we know very well that Boulevard media can sometimes lead some discussions in one direction or another. Of course, we do not want to imagine what it means when certain persons take over certain media and then try to direct certain national elections into one or the other direction they take. Therefore, any measure to strengthen direct democracy must also include necessary and appropriate measures. It is therefore necessary to have clear rules of procedure, and it is necessary that these initiatives be examined for their legality. It needs a clear commitment that this does not undermine fundamental rights and human rights. It also needs a clear commitment that these initiatives do not violate EU law or obligations under international law. It must not, of course, lead to a deterioration in the legal status of minorities. And, of course, these demands must move within the framework of the budget. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, does not contain the request of the Freedom Party. That is why we need much more regulations, and we need to discuss these regulations. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8805	The next item is the speech by Mr Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8827	The Liberals' proposal is, in fact, an evergreen of FPÖ, a proposal that is constantly being put in place, which is by no means bad, because we share the objective of strengthening direct democracy. The proposal here is that if a people's desire, supported by at least 4 percent of those entitled to vote, is not dealt with accordingly in the National Council, a referendum is also to be held. I think the liberals make it a little easy, for two reasons: First of all, when there was the famous anti-smoking people's desire, it could have been said: There is a certain number, we are making a mandatory referendum. – Unfortunately, that didn't happen at the time. It looks a little like: If you don't like it, you might not do it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amesbauer and Mr Deimek.]] The second is – it has already been called in by colleagues Amesbauer – that: That was already in the government program. – I mentioned this several times during the time that ÖVP and FPÖ formed a government. I found this very interesting that you had this in your government program. But you also know that such a change requires a two-thirds majority. We as NEOS have always said: Of course, we are ready for negotiations. I'll tell you: I believe that in the third quarter of the years you have jointly formed a government, no one has ever come to us to negotiate with us. I therefore believe that it may not have been that serious, because otherwise we would start negotiations once. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Mrs Principality, there is even a compromise at the time, from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on democracy. You were, I think, also in your role as ORF Foundation Councillor or Public Councillor at this Committee of Inquiry. There is a joint minority report from then on, from FPÖ, Greens, the Stronach team, I believe, and NEOS, in which we have negotiated compromises together, as we can develop direct democracy, because what you propose here is not our model of NEOS. On the one hand, I think we should look at the fact that we are working on this compromise and perhaps finding solutions. I tell you quite honestly: My hand is stretched out. Let us see that we are finding solutions that are portable for all or at least for a majority of this House, for a majority of two-thirds, but we must put ourselves together! As NEOS, for example, we have proposed that a level plan is needed. We believe that direct democracy is good and we must build it up, but I believe that we must start at levels where it may be easier to ask appropriate questions because the subject situation is not so complex. Let us start at community level, go across the country level and then look at how this can work at federal level! We can discuss how high the percentage should be – 4 percent, as you suggest, we propose 10 percent. But these are all things you need to talk about in order to achieve a result. We also believe, for example, that a cooling-off phase was needed between the corresponding popular desire and the referendum; that, after that, there can be a serious discussion in the public to exchange positive and negative arguments. We also believe, for example, because you are always addressing the Swiss model, that there should be the possibility for the National Council to make counter-proposals; if there is a legislative proposal that we as the National Council say: our counter-proposal would be another! – and both will be put to the vote. I think it is necessary to discuss how the initiatives that bring something in and start up such popular desires are financed and regulated. It needs, as mentioned earlier, no-go materials. I cannot imagine how we should simply vote on fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms or on European rights. These are all things that don't work. In addition, there is also a need for an appropriate voting document if such votes are to be made. I remember concluding negotiations after the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on democracy, where the basic question was: Well, who writes that? – So we are in Austria, unfortunately God – and I give you the right to do something here – so far away from achieving a good solution, which here finds a broad majority. From our side, however, the door is always open. It was also always open for the two years of black and blue government. Unfortunately, no one ever came to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8895	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion 9/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[14:13:05]] 5. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Basic Law on the General Rights of Citizens (20/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8940	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs MMag is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer DDr. Hubert Fuchs. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e8970	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! The cash is very important for the Austrians, as a recent study says. A daily life without cash is not as massively rejected anywhere else in the world as in Austria. We see this justified wish of the people as a mandate to Parliament, and therefore Mr Klubobmann Kickl has tabled with me a corresponding proposal for initiative which provides for the right to cash payment as a state target. This State objective makes it clear that the limitation of the use of cash in payment transactions constitutes an unwarranted intervention in the rights of citizens – in terms of freedom of contract or private autonomy – and in the right to data protection. In the sense of a modern constitutional state and effective consumer protection, we should not adopt measures at Austrian or European Union level that could shake citizens' confidence in the provision of cash and the right to cash. Under the guise of combating money laundering and terrorist financing, efforts are constantly being made to restrict citizens' rights of freedom. So it was tried at the spa associations that made life difficult. Thank God that was rehabilitated. In cash, however, it is always as if there were no criminals and no terrorists in the digital world. Without cash, forced taxes could be introduced at the push of a button, as we experienced in Cyprus in 2013. Without cash, however, the savers are also unprotectedly delivered to the negative interest rates of the banks, because the savers could no longer fix the money, and instead of having to pay interest for the debt, the highly indebted states receive money from the savers due to the negative interest rates, and the debts are paradoxically eliminated no longer by the debtor, but by the saver. The negative interest thus results in a redistribution of the assets from the creditors or from the savers to the debtors, and we strongly reject this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In a world without cash where everything you buy and consume is traceable, there is no freedom nor privacy, because the cashless payment, the cashless payment allows total control by the European Union or by the national states. The result of a world without cash is financial demise and glass citizens, and the public's premeditation would no longer be limited. It makes a difference whether a citizen voluntarily leaves a digital fingerprint, or whether he has no alternative at all in the absence of cash. This freedom of choice, I emphasize, must also be given in the future. Cash is living data protection, but cash is also printed freedom. Another aspect should not be mentioned: How are children in a world without cash to deal with money, to learn business with money? – Money to attack is also very important for the children. The ÖVP FPÖ government programme has provided for the constitutional protection of the right to cash. The ÖVP has also participated in the election campaign for the Federal Republic of Germany. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Of course, I assume that the ÖVP will also fulfil this election promise and support this initiative by Klubobmann Herbert Kickl in order to protect the cash accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9030	Mr Karlheinz Kopf has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9065	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There can be no doubt that digital payments are becoming increasingly important, because it is simple, no, because it is practical, because it is also useful, and vice versa, when it comes to large amounts or larger amounts of money, it is now subject to a number of restrictions, controls – money laundering keyword. Nevertheless, this payment is accompanied by daily life: It makes the public a lot more blatant about their consumption habits; and it has also been discussed – in recent times there or there – as regards the trade in data of citizens from this digital payment system. It is no wonder, therefore, that the cash in Austria still enjoys an unbroken popularity in the population. No, with small amounts it's fast, it's easy, it's any manageable and it also provides protection of privacy in daily life. The general abolition of this means of payment would therefore be simply and simply an intervention in private autonomy for many people and thus a fundamental issue of granting freedom for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] From all these considerations, we have already made a request for a state-of-the-art anchoring of a right to cash in the past legislative period and also shortly after the election. As Mr Fuchs has already pointed out, we also had the opportunity to introduce this right in the joint government programme. We remain in this opinion and therefore also support the intention to maintain freedom of choice for citizens in the basic law. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Fuchs and Mr Wurm on his report.]] We are now in the first reading. There will be plenty of time and opportunity to discuss this in the Committee. I am looking forward to this discussion. I think there is a need for careful consideration of the above-mentioned arguments. However, private autonomy, the protection of privacy for citizens is far above for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9114	Mr Kai Jan Krainer has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9139	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is not new, I think, four days before the National Council election, we had a very similar request from the liberals, which was discussed here. The basic willingness of all, not to abolish cash, but to secure it so that everyone can decide whether to pay with cash or not, is still given. A point that is only on the verge, but which I think is essential for the Austrians in real life, is the provision of cash in rural areas. Increasingly fewer banknotes, fewer and less banking branches, so less and less opportunities to come to cash – this is becoming increasingly difficult. That's a political question. There are already municipalities that rent more or less banknotes from banks at municipal costs. Banks claim it does not pay, and the community then has to pay extra, so that the citizens in this small town or in this village have access to cash at all. That is, the essential political question is access to cash, because other restrictions hardly exist in reality. I can tell you right away that the problem with this request presented by the liberals is very similar to the one they made before the election, namely that the effect is not that the cash would be protected, but that the black money would be protected, that they want to write the possibility of black money back into the Constitution. We have a number of laws not only to combat terrorism, not only to combat money laundering, but also tax evasion, wage and social dumping, illegal party financing and so on, all of which would be null and void by this legal measure. That's what I'm telling you: We don't want to. We still believe that tax evasion should be combated. There are a number of measures to limit the use of cash when it comes to tax evasion. For example, in the construction industry you cannot pay more than 5 000 euros of cash. That's a simple legal restriction on the use of cash, and we think that's right. The average citizen does not run 20 000 euros through the area either. This is what only a former finance minister of yours is doing, which is now in court. Otherwise, this is a rather unusual behavior that you always want to pay with thousands of euros of cash. This does not concern the average Austrians. The third is a technical question. Justice Minister Jabloner said a few days before the election on the subject: If you want cash embedded in the Constitution, please do so in Article 13a B-VG or wherever, but do not go into the Basic Law of 1967 – Sorry, 1867. I believe that such an appeal by a specialist, as Minister of Justice Jabloner is without a doubt one, should also have a certain effect on you. With us, he has the effect – we also submitted a request at the time – that we would no longer write it into the basic state law. The second one he said is still true, namely that the wording you have chosen is completely outrageous and would prevent many important legal measures against illegal party funding and tax evasion. We don't want to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9181	Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9205	Mr President. High house! Believers at home! A long-standing demand from us liberals, a desire of the vast majority of Austrians and a very, very important consumer protection concern is the preservation of cash. After listening to today's discussion and, above all, to the comments made by the EIA, I assume that, as in the government programme with us, the government programme with the Greens will certainly stand in the way of the receipt of the cash. This means that we already have the necessary two-thirds majority for this Constitutional Law; I am now very optimistic. I am a little surprised that the SPÖ obviously does not want to go along with it, because there are very clear and detailed studies in Austria, by the Austrian coin, in which it is clearly stated that cash is extremely important for socially weak groups. Their representatives were the Social Democracy of the past, now obviously not anymore. Especially for older people, poorer people or women, cash is a very, very important part of their lives and should therefore also be preserved. Mr Fuchs has already stated that there are very, very many benefits of cash. I would just like to point out some of the following: Cash is also there, for example, if we have a power failure, and the scenario of a blackout is not entirely obvious. I have cash, even if I don't have a phone or a computer. That means everyone can access cash. I can also simply exchange cash between consumers if I want to pay for something. Safe storage is possible. For me, the most important point in cash, and I believe that is also the reason why the Austrians want to have it, is precisely the anonymity, my very personal free space, the freedom to decide that I want to buy this or that without being registered that it is comprehensible what I have bought with these 100 or 200 euros. I point out – and I would like to remind you once again – that the Iban was not introduced because it was necessary. The Iban was introduced, dear spectators and spectators, so that all Iban transactions can be controlled worldwide, and that is done. The European Union has granted the United States this right, and the central computer, which registers all Iban transfers, is in the United States. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not true!]] I would just like to point out this once again to all those who make Iban payments. That is why it is necessary to maintain the cash in Austria and also to guarantee this constitutionally. I would like to point out once again that Mr Fuchs has already done so: All that we may still have in store for banking crises and other crises means simply bankruptcy for consumers with electronic money. Another hint for all those who should have forgotten this: There is no longer any State guarantee for bank account balances. It was once EUR 100 000. That was abolished. There is now an insurance system, and in the event of a crisis I wish all of us good luck. That's where my cash under my pillow – figuratively speaking – is much preferable to me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I assume, as I said, that the government negotiations between Black and Green will anchor this in the government programme. We will then certainly agree to the Constitutional Act. Perhaps the SPÖ can also go into it again and finally become active for socially weaker groups in Austria. Then the constitutional majority should not be a problem. As in the past, we liberals stand for free and powerful citizens, who can have their own cash on their own and without government control and alley. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9252	Mrs Mag.a Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9276	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom to decide for yourself about one's own life has always been a green concern. This includes, for example, deciding what kind of life - style one would like to practice. Freedom, however, also means the protection of the livelihoods. For us, however, freedom also means being free from data traces. If I have my whole I have the freedom not to disclose any data on my product preferences, and this right to decide this choice, whether to pay with or without data traffic, if it goes after all, to be preserved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That certainly does not mean that we are there alone. I'm sure 100 percent of those here would sign this. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, my question is: Why is the whole excitement about the cash and why this request? No one has the intention of abolishing the cash! [[Abg. Worm: Wake up! Recalculate and think!]] What do you want? You're reaching it? – Either you want to frighten the Austrians, who are actually among the world’s biggest cash lovers, or – I suppose you have a good intention now – you really want to protect the cash. We do not need a constitutional rule for that. [[Abg. Worm: Yes, of course!]] Just because you're something good, it doesn't have to be in the Constitution for a long time. In summer, we all like ice and we don't still write in the Constitution, do we? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we talk about cash, we can't do that as a legislator, so whether the cash would be super fine. The fact is that 90 percent of the cash is not used at all, but is held somewhere. The fact is that: Where there are large amounts of cash, Schindluder is often driven with it. For criminals, nothing is as good as cash. Money laundering, corruption, tax evasion, organised crime – for all this you need cash, lots of cash. And that, please, you just have to take note of it. [[Abg. Worm: Read Studies!]] If you allow everyone endlessly to pay a lot of cash, then at the end of the day, protect the blackmails and criminals of this society. That's it. [[Abg. Kickl: Just criminal transactions are increasingly being handled in cryptocurrencies!]] - No, it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we should talk about what would be a useful ceiling for the use of cash. Would not 5 000, 3 000, 1 000 euro payments be sufficient to carry out 99.9% of all transactions of 99 percent of citizens? Wouldn't it be? – Of course it would. That's why our appeal concludes: Everyone has the freedom to pay as he pleases, and that must remain the same. We all agree, but there is no reason to make it particularly easy for those who use society with criminal methods. [[Abg. Worm: But!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9382	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerald Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9406	Mr President. Now, finally, a little bit of a ride is coming into the debate today, which has dragged something down. The authors of the FPÖ are right in one point: Money is a very essential expression of freedom. Money helps the citizen to protect himself from complete surveillance. Those who know their account know their lives. He doesn't just know what you deserve, he knows where you're shopping at what time you're shopping. When you do everything over the account, you also know which fitness center you go to, which newspaper sabo you have and which clubs you support. – Well, paying with cash time and again helps to avoid complete surveillance. It is worth noting, however, that the FPÖ is now dealing with surveillance issues. During the time of the government, you have also been dealing with surveillance issues, Mr Kickl, but from a very different point of view, have you not? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It was about the Federal Trojans, as it was about lulling and sparing attacks, to invading private homes without judicial decision. [[Abg. Kickl: Without judicial decision? Where did you get this?]] It wasn't that important to you anymore, so I won't buy you the acting today. By the way, I do not believe that a specific constitutional provision would be useful. It already stands so much in the Constitution, which does not belong there. We don't have to pack in any more. If Mr Worm is concerned about the European Union, then of course you have to turn things a bit straight and say: Well, if it were the same as you paint the devil on the wall, then European law would go before the Austrian, no matter where you write it. [[Abg. Worm: A remarkable statement!]] Then, too, the Constitutional Act would not have the effect you want. Besides, I can tell you: The Iban has nothing to do with surveillance. This is a standard European account number, and it is only about ensuring that transactions can be carried out faster and more easily. Yeah, let's get back to the point. Yes, cash is the printed privacy. The best thing citizens can do to keep the cash is simply use the cash regularly.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9464	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 20/A to the Budget Committee. [[14:36:38]] 6. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal (constitutional) law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and adopting a Federal Law on Access to Information (IFG) (25/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9504	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9531	Mr President. Yes, instead of writing the cash into the Constitution, we could write really sensible things into the Constitution, namely a constitutionally guaranteed right to Information. Austria is hardly as backward in an area as it is in the question of freedom of information. We are one of the last countries that still have the official secret in the Constitution, the official secret that comes from the monarchy and fundamentally determines that nothing needs to be published and everything is fundamentally secret. – Although we know that transparency in so many areas is an essential aid, aid as a means of combating corruption, as a means of combating tax waste. It is actually quite natural that the citizen has a right to obtain information on state action. We are extremely backward, many other countries in the world are far ahead of us. For example, in 1766, Sweden adopted in the Constitution the principle of freedom of information. Other countries have followed, Austria has not achieved this to this day. We are in the so-called Global Right to Information Rating of 128 states on the great – in the negative sense – 128. It's all right. This is highly necessary, and that is why it is highly necessary because the citizens have simply deserved to get information, because it is natural that the citizen has the opportunity to go to a state place and question certain things. At this point I must always give an example of how marked the absurdity is in this context: There was once the case that in the event of a Low Austrian municipal council election, a campaigner then asked the municipality how many preferred votes he had received. The church answered: Unfortunately, we must not say that to you; that is subject to official secrecy. – Thus, the official secret in Austria leads to such absurd blossoms. We are, by the way, already legally bound to some extent. There are judgments from the European Court of Human Rights that there is a right to information under Article 10. We are actually obliged to do so under the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Therefore, as NEOS, we have developed a comprehensive information freedom law. By the way, every time every legislative period begins, it is the first request we make, because we believe that we must finally leave the monarchy with this secret of office. It's essentially two things. First: National bodies should be obliged to publish information of general interest proactively. Secondly, We need a constitutionally guaranteed right that people have a subjective right to get information from state agencies. That would have to be quite easy. I look in this direction first. It is the ÖVP-Obmann Sebastian Kurzgewesen, who called for a right to freedom of information in 2013. I'm going to skip the FPÖ now because it's never that safe. With Thomas Drozda as Minister, the SPÖ has always been behind this right, the Greens have always been for it, we NEOS too. The two-thirds majority is quite easy to get, we just have to do it. That is why we have already tabled this bill. I hope that everyone is seriously willing to finally let the official secret belong to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9582	Mr Magnette has now come to speak. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to join Niki Scherak seamlessly. Many here in this House are for freedom of information, many in this House agree that there must also be data protection. Many, perhaps not all, agree, too, that Austrian companies, even if they have a state participation, must have a chance to compete with others. If I am now speaking about data protection and the competitiveness of Austrian companies in addition to freedom of information, we are already seeing the field of tension in which we are moving. This is probably also the reason why we have not come to a solution in detail in recent years. That is why I can take up the words you mentioned at the previous item on the agenda, Mr Niki Scherak. My hand, too, is stretched out to make this happen. With regard to formal points, you are perfectly right: As far as the division is concerned, we are very outdated, but with regard to the case law, we are much more, much more. We have nine mandatory information laws, we have an information law at the federal level and we have supreme judicial decisions that actually ensure what we want with the Information Freedom Act. This does not mean that we do not want the law, even if the material state is already the one we want to achieve today. It is also a matter of setting a sign, it is also about getting away from the last part of the list you have addressed, but above all, it is always about ensuring data protection, that is legitimate interests of others. In this sense, I welcome your proposal, but I also assume that this proposal may be too overwhelming in some areas. I am thinking only of the example that all undertakings examined by the Court of Auditors should be subject to the obligation to provide information. I bring two examples, first one that I think is a good international: electrical electricity providers, in which there is an Austrian participation, can be very easily at a disadvantage to foreign electricity companies, which in Austria may even offer nuclear power, which we do not want. We want to be able to offer our CO2-free electricity more easily than electricity from other energy suppliers. So this is very, very important for Austrian companies. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: This will not be a business secret! Why?]] – Of course, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, if you want to force Austrian companies to announce certain operating conditions, for which another foreign provider is not obliged, you will harm the Austrian CO2-free provider. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is regulated area!]] That would be the wrong way, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Show me exactly this example!]] Another example would be the statistics of Austria, which you just want to put under this obligation. If a private person gives an order to Statistics Austria and says she should study it on this or the subject, then the Statistics Austria – as your legislative text is now – should immediately publish this study. This would also be completely wrong, because then it would be prohibited for Statistics Austria to accept private contracts. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Why? You can always find a point! Or you can be willing to do something! That's ridiculous!]] So in this sense: My hand is stretched out, we can continue to negotiate this and discuss it. Not least, in the cluster for the government negotiations, we have also set out our theme block 1 which reads: State, society, transparency, for transparency is the prerequisite for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9694	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Thomas Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9718	Mr President. High house! This was, of course, an impressive plea for continuing as it has been so far, of course with extended hands. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Which you can starve at!]] I think it's kind of a little bit more intrusive, and it's a flaming plea for the secret of office. Why all this is important and why you need it all, I have not heard from you in any Constitutional Committee, Mr Gerstl. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as the Stögmüller, Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak Members.]] This is particularly problematic because, as democrats and in the knowledge of the results of the elections, of course, it is perfectly clear that a decision on this important matter is not possible without the ÖVP, since the ÖVP has a blocking minority. It is clear, of course, that I am now also the media speaker of my party, that there are a number of journalists who urge this freedom of information, and that freedom of the media is, of course, easier to live under the conditions of freedom of information. We heard from Niki Scherak the sad data, I still got on the 122. Place, you've already got us on the 128th and last. It is clear, however, that we have now been depended on by Georgia, they have always been the final light, now we are even worse. Perhaps we can take this example – I do not know if Mr Gerstl is still in the hall – and perhaps we can do a course correction to end the mystery. Of course, there are a number of proposals. As a minister, I have put forward proposals to this end, and there is the NEOS proposal, so basically, this extended hand should only be taken by now. A solution could also be reached very quickly away from the coalition negotiations, because the proposals are really on the table – and this has been happening for years.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9759	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Philipp Schrangl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. He is not in the hall, so Mrs. Dr.in Alma Zadić is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9786	Mr President. High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The Information Freedom Act is constantly being debated, and so is the beginning of this legislative period. It's always such a fancy thing, but I'd like to explain briefly what's really behind it. The Information Freedom Act is indeed about real transparency and our right to information from public authorities. This right to information and this transparency is absolutely necessary if we really want to fight corruption and waste money. However, it is also about democratic control, which is about democratic control of the entire administration, and it cannot be done if authorities can repeatedly appeal to a very antique secret of office. Ladies and gentlemen, an information freedom law that really guarantees this transparency and the right to information would be an important step towards reaching the glass state which we have long called for. The NEOS have already said that in hardly another area, the Republic is as backward as in dealing with the public authorities with information. In the Global Right to Information Rating, of course, we are in one of the last places and therefore there is a need to catch up. I would also like to mention a group of the Council of Europe which already presented a report on Austria and transparency in 2008. It shall hold: “This situation is not satisfactory from the point of view of the transparency of the public authorities and makes it difficult for citizens and the media to exercise control of the administration, which would help prevent corruption.” Ladies and gentlemen, we need a system change! The current obligation to provide information is not sufficient in the case of an item and it needs a right to a subjective right to information. Therefore, we can obtain much from the NEOS request and the demands that information from public authorities serving the general interest be published. We can also overcome the demand that the right to information be guaranteed, as it is an old demand of the Greens. Of course, it must also be written in the law that this law needs certain exceptions, especially when it comes to data protection and national security. As has been said, the proposal provides a good basis, and we can do much about it. It needs the subjective right to information. Of course, we are available for further discussions at any time.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9838	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 25/A to the Budget Committee. [[14:50:27]] 7. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 (10/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9878	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First to speak, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9910	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals recognise, in the security challenge of this time, the need for us, as in the past legislative period, to work particularly hard on security policy. We are concerned in detail with the Austrian federal army and its funding. We see nothing good in this direction from the comments of the now coalition-negotiating parties. The party chairman of the ÖVP has clearly stated that there will be no increase in the defense budget if he becomes Chancellor, and in the Greens the spectrum is large: From the abolition of the German army to the dramatic restriction of the functions of the Austrian federal army, there is everything to be found. That is why we are forced to submit this proposal to ensure the financing of the Austrian federal army so that the reconstruction of our army, which began under Hans Peter Doskozil and has been carried on under Mario Kunasek, can be carried on smoothly. We therefore propose to set out the budget figures for the financing of the Austrian federal army. We want to have committed EUR 2.9 billion in 2020, EUR 3.3 billion in 2021 and EUR 3.6 billion in the Federal Financial Framework Act for 2022. If the existing Federal Financial Framework Act is continued without correction, the defense budget will fall dramatically from next year onwards. We will not even be able to meet the basic needs of the Austrian federal army. That is why we think it is necessary to make this request now, at the beginning of this legislative period, based on the request that we have put together with SPÖ towards the end of the previous legislative period and which has been decided by the Austrian National Council. We believe that it is necessary to ensure the entire range of tasks of the Austrian federal army. I would remind you of our joint unanimous decision of 2015, which means that Austrian security and defence policy, implemented by the Austrian Federal Army, must be dramatically modernised and improved. At the time, all the parties agreed, the Greens were also in the National Council. I remind you of the situation of 2015. I also remind you of the exercises carried out jointly with the police on the border under the leadership of the then Minister of the Interior Herbert Kicklund of the Minister of Defense Mario Kunasek, who have led us to see how important it is that these two security bodies are connected and prepared for the situation in which the Republic can get back to its borders at any time. In addition to the police, the Austrian Federal Army is an essential factor in this security, and we therefore feel it is essential that we build this strategic reserve of action, as we call the Austrian federal army in various strategic papers, really as a reserve of action so that we can use it if necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The situation regarding the security of the EU's external border is precarious and has not improved in any way since 2015. The pressure at the EU's external border is still a major one. The EU's external border is dilapidated, which is why the Member States of the European Union should be well advised if they are prepared for a new storm and to ensure the safety of their countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e9974	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Michael Hammer. – Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention to the fact that I am interrupting the debate at 3 p.m. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: That's all right!]] – You will certainly create a point landing. Thank you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10009	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are basically dealing with an important issue on which the future of the Austrian state defense, the Austrian federal army, is about budgetary equipment. But I think the time is a bit strange. We have a National Council election behind us, we are facing government negotiations, and, of course, in the coming months we will also have the budget for the next year and for the following years with the budget financial framework – and then it is the cheapest and the right time to discuss the important issue of the national defence budget. Before the election, the resolution already quoted was adopted by the then majority of SPÖ and FPÖ. Such a request is probably no longer filed, for this majority is fortunately no longer. This is why this issue is being reintroduced in order to discuss it here in plenary. If you look at the proposal – with all the seriousness, importance and need to increase the defence budget – you have to say that this is a little bit as the small Maxi budget policy suggests: One simply takes the federal financial framework, which is decided, and does not use the previous values in the national defence chapter, but gives 1 billion or greater amounts everywhere. If this were to happen in all areas, how should we ensure a general government budget policy? This is exactly what the Austrian Federal Army does not secure the necessary resources in the long term and is not serious either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, I ask the colleagues of the FPÖ to stop spreading only panic, rumors and coffee readings, because from the newspaper station, neither the one nor the other party wants the Ministry of Defence – which has not been discussed at all! – to conclude that there is no interest in the defence of the country, that is already very cocky. [[Abg. Belakovich: You haven't been interested in this in the past either!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is really due to the choice of personnel representation and has nothing to do with serious work. I would therefore ask you to stop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us as ÖVP, it is clear and always the confession that there is a strong Austrian federal army and also the corresponding budgetary resources. Our partyobmann – you quoted him – has always said that quite clearly, and we have made this clear several times in the election debate, as you have always replicated on a summer conversation. The German Federal Party and then Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz have clearly stated there that the Austrian Federal Army needs more financial resources and will also receive them. What he said there: It is difficult to imagine reaching 1 percent of GDP immediately. But he said quite clearly – and this is the confession of the ÖVP – that it needs significantly more money for the state defense and the Austrian federal army. We stand to this day, and we will bring it in. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a good foundation and I invite everyone to enter these talks. We know the state report of the General Staff, the current transitional minister on the state of the Austrian Federal Government. – And yes, we take this seriously, and we also need to take the appropriate steps, as it is simply important for us to ensure comprehensive protection by the Austrian federal army. In order to meet challenges, new challenges, which are becoming more diverse, are also adequately prepared and able to respond to them, we need appropriate financial, human and also material resources. We will make this clear in the context of the government negotiations and will also ensure that there is not only more money for the Austrian federal army – and that is the most important – but also the corresponding planning for the next years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I should like to invite everyone to work together here in Parliament for the Austrian Federal Army a few years ago, instead of dealing with requests. The government negotiations and the implementation of their contents offer a lot of opportunity to work for the Austrian Federal Army, for more money and for the protection of Austrians. I invite everyone to participate positively.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10080	I thank you for the timeliness and I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7. [[14:59:29]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10101	We are now entering into a brief debate on the request made by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, to the Budget Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 1/A(E) a deadline of up to 10. December 2019 to be set up. After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10135	Mr President. Members of the government may still be coming. “Let the fingers of families living in Austria and do not take the children from the beginning all the opportunities for the future, Mr. Kurz!” – So Werner Kogler on 13 March 2019 on the social cuts for families. Unfortunately, both gentlemen are not here now. I believe it is important to remember that the Greens have not only seen the topic of climate protection on a scale from one to ten in the first place in the campaign. I believe that the Greens have so far seen, even on Sunday, the issue of child protection in statements on 1st place, and that the criticism that came in March is somehow puffing and fading today, when I think that on Monday in the Committee on Budgets, as one of the few committees in which we can discuss issues, we have tried to find that a package of measures against child poverty will not be postponed, but that our commitment, the confession of all parliamentarians, is there that we decide to discuss it – and soon – as the lives of children in Austria look forward to. When I look back to the change of government in 2017, ladies and gentlemen, I note that some things have happened to improve children from poverty statistics, which is also measurable. I just remember a few areas so you can't say again that in the past too little happened. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Since 2015, we have been able to provide over the course of several years funds of 350 million euros for the expansion of childcare. When the 2017 Turquoise Blue came, it was initially a standstill for months. The communities that should build and expand these children's facilities have not known whether they have planning security from where they receive funding and subsidies. After a three-quarters year, the same money was made available again, so very late. Before the change of government, we tried to bring children with non-German mother tongues who are not yet as good as our language, through an integration year to the German language, so that they do not have any disadvantages in school and not in Lower Austria – my federal country where there are almost 100 special schools – I am ashamed of that – very quickly to be transferred to the special school, just because they do not control the German language. The year of integration has abolished Turkis-Blue. We have decided, under the Minister for Social Affairs Rudolf Hundstorfer, that the training requirement should be 18 during which young people are accompanied, in any measure to ensure that they are not lost from the labour market or school. They still exist, we are very proud of them; they have not abolished you. We have introduced a kindergarten year, which is free of charge, namely the last kindergarten year. A second free kindergarten year is still out. I hope we can do this together. Before Turquoise-Blue we have been able to provide 750 million euros from the banking billions for the expansion of all day schools. - You did that again! – Turquoise blue has halved the funds and extends the payout until 2024, that is, it is half there and one has to divide it for many years. Before Turquoise-Blue we have introduced early aid, which are health policy measures, psychotherapist support for young parents. Even in the time when children are not yet born, parents, perhaps single mothers, will be accompanied until the development of the child's first years of life allows parents to take care of their children well and independently. Before Turquoise-Blue there was also a requirement-oriented minimum guarantee scheme, which – regardless of whether one-child or multiple-child families – ensured that each child: Austria is worth a lot and gets support. - That's what you abolished. – So much for Werner Kogler's quote, which I mentioned earlier, about the social cuts for families that were introduced under the government in short. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you have introduced a family bonus in the turquoise-blue government, which distinguishes between children from families in which well deserved – these children get it – and those in which little is earned – these children get nothing, because 257 euros a year are a little bit, considering that, for example, lunch in school costs an average of 700 euros per year for a child. When I was on my way, I have heard in particular of very burdened families in which there are two or three children: I would really like to give the child to the afternoon care, but I can't even have lunch for my three children. – And if it comes to that – even if you look at me in disbelief – that the father dies in a family due to an accident and the mother stands alone with the children, perhaps has to give up her full-time work and only work more part-time, then she can paint the family bonus, because she does not get it. Our concern is that we should talk about this inequality of children in Austria – therefore, the deadline until 10. December. Let's talk about 11. December 1st, because if we wait until we have a government until we have a budget until children are provided as they should be cared for, then valuable time is lost. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, not only the poverty conference and associations on child protection and child rights say that the situation of children has improved slightly in recent years – it could have happened more and more. However, the European comparisons are only up to 2016, and from then on, Turquoise-Blue was there. I think to be able to say – that was also heard in the morning journal by the institutions working with children – that the situation and opportunities of children have deteriorated and have not improved. Now I come to our package of measures, ladies and gentlemen: I think parents have often wondered why it matters where you live. In the city of Vienna it is guaranteed that children can visit a kindergarten for free, it is guaranteed that children whose parents are employed will have a place. In Vienna, too, one cannot build faster than there is attraction, but in Vienna it is ensured that the first important basic education for children can be offered free of charge and that children are well accommodated and well cared for. Parents can already get into the hustle and bustle if there is no kindergarten available. Therefore: What can we do? – Throughout Austria, children can offer kindergartens free of charge, all children have the same opening hours and closing days, namely few closing days, long opening hours, so that children can be well accompanied from Vorarlberg to Burgenland. If the first educational institution does not fit well in the life of a child, then it can have a negative effect for a lifetime, children can drag it along. Similarly, it would be important – this is another point of our package of measures – to offer a free lunch in schools; these 700 euros per year are unfortunately too much for some parents. And of course children should be able to move. We have children who are in schools where they have fewer chances than other children. We know these schools. We could use an index if we just wanted to provide more staff, more teachers, more social workers, just for those schools that need it, in order to distribute opportunities for children more fairly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We have these figures, figures and facts from all schools throughout Austria, because they are collected. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that some children may need more and other children may not need so much support in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10232	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10247	Thank you, the closing phrase: We need not only a therapeutic offer for children, we also need changes in minimum security. Every child is worth a lot. We need a maintenance guarantee for children up to 24. Year of life when they are in education. In particular, we need your consent to the fact that we here in the House do not allow children to be treated differently and that child poverty is at all a topic in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10274	Mrs Bogner-Strauß is speaking next time. I would draw attention to the fact that the following speakers only have more than 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10296	Mr President. High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! First of all, ladies and gentlemen, As a threefold mother and us as a new People's Party, the well-being of the families and children in Austria is particularly important to me. We want to strengthen them, we want to support them, and we want to relieve them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I can say one thing here: The family benefits in Austria are very, very accurate. I can mention the family allowance and the childcare allowance for the babies. I would also like to mention the family bonus that we have introduced as the last German government, which relieves over 960 000 families, especially those with small and medium-sized incomes. However, we also have great benefits in kind, for example, the free movement of students and the school book campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] However, the reliability of family benefits is also demonstrated by data and facts. Calculations of the Austrian Institute for Family Research have shown that over the last two decades the total expenditure for families has increased significantly more than the inflation rate. The current statistics in Austria and the EU-Silc 2018 have also shown that the risk of poverty and exclusion in Austria is, fortunately, strongly reduced. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true!]] While 21 percent were still at risk of poverty and exclusion in 2008, it was only 17 percent in 2018. A study of the budget service has also shown that poverty reduction in Austria is the world’s peak. But I say it honestly to you: I would not like to speak in this regard. There is poverty in Austria, there is family poverty – and family poverty leads to child poverty. These are personal fates that have a personal impact on the future, but also on the presence of children and families affected by poverty. It is the task of politics, it is the task of society to develop framework conditions, to develop strategies and to create measures that support children and families. You know: The most effective method of preventing child poverty is when both parents – in cases where there are both parents – go to work. We want to increase the compatibility of family and profession. We've already heard: In the last ten years, 70,000 childcare places have been created. With the last 15a agreement, together with the countries, we have taken back 720 million euros for four years to increase childcare places in order to flexibilize the opening hours. Unfortunately, however, both national and international studies have shown that the expansion of childcare places has not, to the expected extent, led to an increase in hours of work in women – and this, although it is known that in multiple households, the employment of women would significantly contribute to reducing family and child poverty. We have also planned improvements in the field of maintenance advance. In the last two years, experts have dealt with this. It was also submitted by us in July of this year. This provides for the acceleration of maintenance procedures and for the provision of credit statements of maintenance guidelines. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Another central point is the improvement of the mother-child passport. There were also measures to be implemented during the last government period. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Kucharovich:... no measures! What exactly?- Oh, my God!]] It is a question of supporting children and young people much better in the field of diagnostic, preventive and therapeutic matters. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you see, we are working intensively to combat child poverty, family poverty in Austria. Policy must create the necessary framework conditions for this, but society is also required. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Accept!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10388	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10403	As a new People's Party, we will continue to care for families and children in the future. We will make ourselves strong, we will work goal-oriented and fact-based, but not with quick shots. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10441	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10462	Mr President, for the second time today! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Do you know this form? – This is now from Upper Austria. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: I can't even read it!]] – Probably not many. It is a form by which you can apply for financial support for school events; the school has to sign in the back. This is a form that causes shame, exclusion and stigmatization for many children and young people by others. [[Abg. Kickl: I still know this from times of socialist government participation!]] Many children and young people in Austria are still affected or threatened by poverty, in concrete terms even every fifth. [[Abg. Kickl: A Achievement of Socialist Social Policy!]] – Mr Kickl, if you had been a member of the Federal Youth Office, for example: In the last GP, which was 2018, there has been a truly excellent campaign entitled “Poverty is not a children’s game”. [[Abg. Belakovich: In the years before!]] – I am talking about this study, which was just published in 2018 by the Federal Youth Office. [[Abg. Kickl: Everything's got a forerunner!]] As a legally established representation of all children and young people in Austria, I think you can also listen to it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Yesterday, together with the Children's Rights Network, the Federal Youth Office organised a press conference and pointed out this issue, because one thing has to be said: The last German government – Türkis-Blue – has, in any case, made an even worse impact on child poverty, by the indexation of family support already mentioned in the morning, by the unjust family bonus and, above all, by the reduction of the minimum pension or social assistance Newly, as a family with several children, from the third child only more than EUR 1.50 can be obtained. One of the four chairmen of the Federal Youth Office, Caroline Pavitsits, said that children are treated differently due to the number of their siblings. – This is really totally incomprehensible and absurd. 1.50 Euro, how to live on it and get real opportunities for the future? I can't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] That is why we have put in a seven-point plan on child poverty, and I would also like to invite the Freedom Party to vote – if it is really such a heart issue for you, because the spectators in front of the screens do not get it, but there is quite a bit of excitement in the liberals – when it is really about concrete measures. On the one hand, it is about free healthy food, about the daily turn hour. It is about guaranteeing children real free and sufficient access to diagnostic and therapeutic services, it is about doubling the school start-up fee and just the withdrawal of the reductions in social assistance mentioned earlier. One thing is assured to you, ladies and gentlemen, even during this legislative period, if it says: Child Cost Analysis New – Let's finally bring her to 21. 19th century! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I really want to appeal to you, we can't move this issue to the long bank any longer, because every minute and every day we just expect, we rob children of future opportunities to participate. Social and social participations are installed, whether at the sports club, at school or just at meetings with friends. The Child Law Convention, which celebrates its 30th anniversary this year, states that every child has the right to live in a safe environment without discrimination, to have access to medical care and training, and to have a say in decisions concerning his or her own well-being. I think that's really inconceivable. In any case, the Federal Government will have to give a hearing to the UN in January 2020, and I am sure that the recommendations will not only be positive. True combating child poverty looks different. We here in the House bear massive responsibility, and I would also like to say that it is not enough to donate something in the early Christmas season, but we must take seriously the responsibility we bear in the House today, perceive it and actually combat and eliminate child poverty with measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References== The birthday of the UN Convention on Children's Rights should definitely be enough for us to take children's rights seriously, and above all it should be the occasion not to sit here quietly and accept injustices. Children's rights must not remain second-class rights. As a SPÖ, we will not tire out to stress this and put our fingers in the open wound – on 20 May. November, as well as today and above all beyond. All children all the chances! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10591	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to my predecessor: You said there's the seven-point program you've set out here. - Yeah, that's right. You have briefly quoted from it, namely the healthy food, the daily turn hour. These are quite demands that are justified. I think there are a lot of parents who can't afford the school jause either. Of course, you can think of whether you can solve this with a common meal, whether there is the healthy jause every day. All these possibilities exist, but you also have quite different demands in it, and I start with point one at a time, which is the “right to a free kindergarten and schoolground all day long”. You know, if that comes from the SPÖ, the former Vienna State School Councillor Susanne Brandsteidl will come to my mind, which called for the compulsory day-to-day kindergarten visit from the first birthday. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, so that you will not be able to win anything at all with us, we are absolutely against it. I don't think it takes any forced measures for children, but it must remain the free choice of parents, into which school and into which kindergarten they bring their children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Point three is also a very exciting story, you write: “Only 6 out of 10 students in 4. The school class can read in a meaningful way". Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you have been a minister of education for so long, this is a witness that you are exhibiting yourself! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] As a minister of education, you have failed – if you read through exactly, you can see what that means! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you say you want 5,000 more teachers. What did you do in your time as a minister of education? – Obviously have You didn't do anything, otherwise you wouldn't have these effects of your work today. Of course, it's really a shame that this is happening. But I also tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ what you are doing here: They require even more transfer services. – Austria is in the leading field, but child poverty can not only be combated with transfer services. Child poverty is a multi-morbid problem. [[Abg. Hier: Multimorbid!]] Especially parents who may have alcoholism, parents who themselves do not think anything about education, will not convey any values to their children either. We know very well that children of financially poor parents, who are very likely to have human capital that teaches their children culture, talk to their children, and convey value, have the same opportunities on the educational path as children from wealthy families. That is to say, to believe that one can only handle this problem with money is an approach that needs to be questioned once. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] .. We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that there are parents who are being pointed out by teachers who do not care about who do not come to school at class even though they are being invited. All these are problems that will eventually end up at the back of the children. In this regard, one should think of the reverse way to see if one does not even shorten a transfer, because that is probably the only language that such parents, to whom education means nothing at all, understand. That, I think, would also be remembered, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this context, it is also exciting how many SPÖ politicians – especially in Vienna – send their children to private schools. Think about it once! Why is that so, this fact? Go inside and consider what is really wrong in the public sector and whether the SPÖ does not share all this madness that takes place there! Now I'm going to point five. We missed point four, which was: “free of charge and sufficient access to diagnostic and therapeutic services”. – Yes, I agree, of course, all children have a right to do so. At point five you will address the minimum security and the family bonus plus. I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that you have not understood it to this day: The Family Bonus Plus is a tax benefit, it is about tax justice for the parents, about creating a compensation between those people who earn the taxes and have no children, and those who have children. That's not the family benefit. Nevertheless, the last Federal Government has also decided to pay extra money, especially for single and low-income teachers. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] That means something happened. You always ignore that, you always push it away like that. You demand the introduction of the maintenance guarantee, and then you ask for something, which I particularly like: the “increasing of the school start-up fee”. You know, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, from 2008 to 2010 there was a 13th. Family allowances. And when was it shortened? Who was the Federal Chancellor at the time and who was the Social Minister at the time? – These were both SPÖ men, namely Faymann and Hundstorfer. At that time it was simple and simply the 13th. Family aid is abolished. A school start-up fee was introduced. By the way, the family allowance for students was also reduced, which is only more than until 24. years paid; Young people who have completed the training have lost them immediately, before they were overhanged at three months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] All these cuts, all that the SPÖ has introduced. Now you're making yourself up and sorry about that. You know, this is just an unreasonable debate you're having here!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10693	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10708	We believe that child poverty must not and should not be in Austria, but child poverty can not only be overcome by transfers, because child poverty has not only financial but very, very many causes and reasons. [[Abg. Lightenness: speaking time!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10756	Mr Caineder has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10777	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Fighting child poverty is a civilisational matter in one of the richest countries in the world. There is no need for any doubt in the case of social democracy whether the Greens have it on the top of the list of priorities or not. That's on our priority list at the top, you can rely on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are two main reasons why combating child poverty is at the top of our priority list. The first one is: It's moral. Children cannot choose the skin color they have, they cannot choose which mother tongue they have. They can't do anything if their parents come from another country, they can't do anything if their parents are unemployed. Children cannot choose how many siblings they have. But all of this has an impact on their economic situation. – Since it is a moral requirement, we must take the fight against child poverty very, very seriously. The second reason is – and this is perhaps more to say in this direction: [[turning towards ÖVP]] It makes economic sense. Fighting child poverty is economically meaningful, there are dozens of social science studies that say: For every child brought out of the child poverty trap, at the end of the road you are likely to receive a taxpayer or taxpayer. This is economic reason. According to most studies, there is this social return on investment after ten or fifteen years. It makes economic sense, and it is moral. In the last two years, much has gone in the wrong direction. We now have a basic social assistance law – and I cannot beautify it – which prohibits the rural days in Austria from effectively combating child poverty. That's a problem. We need a boost in combating child poverty – that is what we are aware of – and for this we need majority, dear social democracy. This is the point on which we need to discuss this motion for a resolution, and then, of course, the deadline proposal, because I can live very well with this proposal, because there are many things in it that I think are good and sensible – alone, we need majority voting, and that is not the case here and today. I can therefore reject this request for a deadline with good conscience, because we must first find majority voting. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Go, please...!]] The interesting thing is yes, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, in your motion for a resolution we are dealing with many different legislative areas. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Have you ever considered how many 15a agreements are affected? – If I take this seriously when it comes to you to fight child poverty effectively, we need to change the measures contained in your request nine different 15a agreements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] Do you know how many parliamentary decisions these are? – 90 pieces, and we need majority voting for all these decisions. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again.]] On one thing, you can rely: We shall seek these majorities and fight for them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 90 parliamentary decisions, that's not nothing, but you can get it if you want. You can do that. I would like to say to Mr Evi Holzleitner: I too have listened to the Federal Youth Office today in the “Morgenjournal” very, very well. It was said that the next government must have a high priority in combating child poverty. We see that as well, and we will work on it; you can rely on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10866	Mr Loacker has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10887	Mr President. High house! One thing, I think, is incontrovertible: Every child who has to grow up in poverty is one too much, and the commitment of all here is the fight against child poverty. I think I can put that out of dispute. On the content, I would nevertheless like to highlight some gratifying points: ==References== The new Eurostat data on poverty in Europe have been published in October, and for Austria they show a very nice development. Indeed, the number of persons affected by significant material degradation, i.e. poverty in the narrower sense, has fallen by 50 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] This is – within ten years – already an achievement, and the Social Democrats could of course come here and say: From 2008 to 2018 – this could be due to good social democratic policy! [[Abg. Belakovich: They do not believe that!]] - But they don't believe it themselves. The number of people at risk of poverty in Austria is also decreasing. It goes back a little bit slower, because the risk of poverty is always the same as the median income; if the median income increases, the low-earners need to increase a little more so that the risk of poverty can be reduced. – So there are good numbers too. Why don't the numbers for the vulnerable children look so beautiful? – Professor Badelt recently worked it out in the press and wrote literally: “The number of children (statistically) at risk of poverty in recent years is rising mainly because of the fact that pensioners’ budgets are much better than at the time of comparison. Combined with demographic shifts, there was an increase in median income relevant to poverty measurement. However, this has nothing to do with the economic situation of the children.” – So with the generous pensionist policy you pursue, you statistically increase the poverty of children, which you complain at the other end. According to Badelt – and I can basically join in there – there are essential measures to combat child poverty. He says, more “Promoting Focus Schools”, “early integration of foreign children into kindergarten or kindergarten. appropriate German courses are the ‘most effective means of combating poverty’. [[Call the SPÖ:Puts everything in the Seven Point Plan!]] However, what most brings are some measures proposed by SPÖ, according to the motto: everything for everyone: free kindergarten all day for everyone, free all day school for everyone, free lunch for everyone, whether they are in need or not, whether they need it financially or not – for everyone! –; and on top of that, of course, double school start-up money – you know it – for everyone. [[Abg. Lightness: Where is the problem?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, the SPÖ does not provide funding for all these benefits that are proposed here. I would suggest once again to conduct co-alition negotiations with the ÖVP, because the Greens have also learned quickly: Money doesn't grow on the trees. [[Call the SPÖ:Follow-up costs!]] However, an update of the child cost study would have been made in due time; it was last made in 1964. The Social Ministers Hundstorfer and Stäger have also not updated the child cost study what they could have done. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - Yeah, they didn't do it. This updated study could provide evidence-based evidence of the concrete measures to be taken to combat child poverty exactly where it is worst. [[Abg. Easy: It speaks the non-social speaker!]] – Yes, Mr. Leichtfried, the beard already has a relatively long beard, I have to see that when I go back, I don’t do anything about it. So we could work evidence-based instead of populist, financially responsible rather than forward-looking and targeted, instead of using the casting pot over all over it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e10991	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We come to the vote on the request by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Budget Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 1/A(E) a deadline of 10 June. December 2019 to be set up. Who is for this, I now ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[15:37:13]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11031	I will resume the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda. Mr Laimer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11055	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Perhaps “the tank struggle in the wine district is no longer the threat of the future,” says Sebastian Kurzim ORF “Summer talk” this year. Even if it was meant ironically, our comprehensive national defense and the constant neutrality are not exactly the right occasion to explore the seriousness of the situation. Rather, it is about new threat scenarios for our Republic: whether it is the danger of a blackout – which is hardly any longer the question of whether it will come to a blackout, but rather, when a blackout occurs – or of cyberattacks, especially in a militaryly highly technicalized world. But it is also about modern barracks and the necessary equipment of the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! SPÖ and FPÖ have already submitted resolutions to the National Council, but also to the Federal Council, in the course of the legislative period which has expired, in order to provide the necessary financial resources for the German army in order to fulfil its constitutional tasks. The appeals of the General Staff as well as the report by Minister of Defense Starlinger “Our Army 2030” are considered to be a fundamental basis in terms of the urgently needed means for a functioning state defense. It is our historical responsibility as a descendant, to protect the comprehensive national defense and the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria within the meaning of our Constitution and therefore also to secure it financially. If, after the end of the war, it was Karl Renner, who fought in long and difficult negotiations for the freedom and self-determination of Austria, and great politicians such as Raab, Schärf, Figl and Kreisky, who after ten years of our liberation finally helped break through, we today have the responsibility to restore or maintain a functioning and capable federal army. Everything else would be a state and security bankruptcy declaration, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11090	Mr Deputieser Reifenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11112	High house! Under the Federal Financial Framework Act, the budget for our federal army will not rise, but will even fall below the current level from 2021 onwards. So instead of following the demands of all the experts and even the exhorting words of the President and significantly increasing the defence budget, the exact opposite is to happen. On the other hand, I can promise the spectators at home in front of the screens that we shall be free to do so, with hands and feet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it really comes to this apocalyptic black-green coalition, then the last remaining lights go out to our federal army. Already at the stage of the probe, it has been shown that neither the blacks nor the greens want to take over the defence resort, this is almost a hot potato. If this is the attitude of the future government to security in our country, then: Good night Austria! We do not make any over-claimed claims with this request. We only demand the most absolutely necessary to slowly introduce a turnaround to the Austrian Federal Army. In fact, it took a lot more money, so we stand. Today, however, we do not deliberately place the latte too high for the next three years in order to enable the other political groups to take part in this proposal. Those who even want to refuse this moderate budget development – and I look very consciously here in the light ranks of the Turks, both the spokesperson and the clubman are not present – should at least be so honest as to admit that they have no interest in a eligible federal army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koestinger]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it goes to the Turks, then the German army would only consist of a department for cybersecurity and an armed technical assistance; perhaps there would be some international prestigious foreign missions to cross-border. As the Greens imagine a federal army, I do not even want to paint myself. The army lacks it at all corners and ends. I myself was able to get a picture of Aigen in the Ennstal last week and to review the alouette III helicopters still in use there. This model has already found its deserved place in military history museums in other countries. Only the Austrian federal army manages to keep these old-timers operational, and for this the technicians are grateful. However, the lack of economy is also continuing in the case of old-fashioned vehicles and in-house accommodation, which, while sufficient for our groundmen, are considered to be possible refugee accommodation as too less. The pitcher goes to the well for so long until it breaks. The German army has already been broken, at the political inconsistencies of red and black politics of the past years and decades. To that extent, the expected destruction of a possible Green Minister of Defense will only be equivalent to a political necrophilia if we do not create an immediate trend change.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11178	I call Mr Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, in Austria we need a federal army that is ready to beat and well equipped; that is essential. [[Abg. Kickl: Powerful!]] But this request from the FPÖ does not at all address the problems and the shortcomings in the area of the Federal Government. The old event that the money is pumped in somewhere above and then down there comes something that is half okay, without even having any idea of counter-financing: That's not how it will go, so it won't work. That's the problem. Everyone should be aware that the German army has long been in a state of reform. The shortcomings and problems that the army has are also due to your and your mispolicy. I'll just give you one example: Remember the purchase of the Eurofighters! This is still busy with us until the status quo. It is a parade example of the type of misinvestment of your party, a billion tomb in which it has smoked after some lubrications, something that justice still needs to take care of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] But that's nothing new anyway! After a government participation of the FPÖ, there is always a bit of a scandal of justice, even there again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] One would have saved millions for the federal army in a sustainable way if one had already done the right thing in advance. These were false investments in areas that just didn't help soldiers. There millions were put in some no longer modern weapons pits. What we really need is a reform of the federal army. We need a army that is top equipped and equipped for the great disasters and dangers we have in Austria. Who will help people when a wall has gone off? Who helps people when entire villages and cities have been buried under snow? Who protects us from cyberattacks and cyberattacks? - Yeah, that's where a functioning federal army needs it. There you can look in your own rows and twist your eyes – I know that a few German nationals are inside here and probably still believe that we are in times before 1950 – but the world is turning on. 30 years ago, the fall of the wall and the attacks were over, and the world was turning on. There are new challenges, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Lausch.]] It doesn't have to be shot into the air anymore. The federal army must go over time and recognize and solve new problems and challenges. These are no longer wars at our borders, but they are cyberattacks and hacker attacks on our legal system, on our democratic electoral system. It is necessary to invest in the field of civil protection and information education. It takes professionals and no longer any forced young people in the federal army who have to stand up for a low wage somewhere six months. [[Abg. Listen: Tell me right now, you want a professional!]] A federal government needs to take the right steps and finally bring about the transformation in the German army. That's what we should talk about. We should put quality before quantity, shifting instead of pumping millions into the system. This would be necessary for a modern federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11277	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11299	Mr President. High house! Dear visitors to the gallery! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: (in the direction of Abg. Hafenecker) The police are responsible for the population, Mr. Colleague!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] It is very nice that we are discussing the issue of German army today. I also like the fact that there is broad agreement here that the Austrian federal army needs more money. This is a situation we hope all know here. In the last legislative period, too, there have already been a number of motions for resolutions, so that we have to have the same debate over and over again. It is amazing from my point of view that the FPÖ is positioning itself here today as someone who has to save the federal army. The FPÖ stresses how generous it is and wants to increase the budget framework again. One forgets a little who has been sitting in this ministry for the last one and a half years and who has negotiated the last budget framework you want to change today. You then accuse the others that they cannot prevail and similar things: The only ones who did not prevail on these issues were you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. You have not managed to create the necessary financial framework with which the German army can successfully go into the future. You have to put this on your own instead of sitting here and saying: Great, we'll fix the federal army! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You break yourself out of the government and then you come up with the fact that everything you've done in the government was wrong. [[Abg. Kickl: Are we all per you? I don't know!]] It's great that you have this knowledge. And then you sit here and want to change everything again – so it's not quite comprehensible. In principle, in Austria we have the situation that the German army must always wait. When it comes to the budget, you have to wait for the next minister; then you have to wait for any country elections to pass, because the minister may be running there; then you have to wait for the next government. So there is a waiting mechanism all the time. The same applies to airspace protection. We also have to wait for the first report; then we have to wait again for a new minister; then we have to wait again for the second report; then we have to wait for the new government. The federal army is always about waiting. The question I ask myself is: Why are we waiting? We're the people's representatives. We are elected and have a mandate to become active. This is something we should actually do: get up and take the necessary measures. There are the opinions of the General Staff – already mentioned by the current Minister – that there is an urgent need for funding. On this point I am quite right about the FPÖ. I also believe that we urgently need to take measures to speed up this funding stand, which is available, because it will make it more expensive for a long time, which, of course, cannot be our concern. I also believe that the situation is not one you should smile at. If a Minister of Defence stands up and says it's ten after twelve, that's a serious situation. He does that, I think, not from jux and tollery, but to really draw attention to it. It will be so – not because of the content, I think I have said that before, but simply because of the political facts – that this initiative proposal will then find no majority in the committees and so on. We all know that. But why can't we do it on this issue – and I have said that again and again in the last GP – that we are finally putting together and writing a joint initiative proposal that we take it out according to Parliament's strength and say: Yes, we are elected representatives, and we have the opportunity to do so on own initiative proposals and not on simple motions for a resolution, which we know is not a lot coming out of it. In particular, I take the EIA into account. You too were in the last government. You call yourselves the security party number one again and again, or have you called yourselves so; but in recent years, you have shown again and again that you are not and that you see here zero possibilities to reduce investment stocks. I believe that we should not compete on the whole subject of the German army for who is the better representative of the German army. Rather, we should really make ourselves and say: If we work together, we find solutions, we find ways to provide sufficient budget resources! – Then, in the end, those who need it, or those who should win, are the Austrians and their security. That would be my great wish. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11371	Mr Kaniak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11393	Mr President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker places a panel with a curved diagram and the heading “LV budget in relation to GDP” on the speaker’s desk.]] It is indeed amazing that we need to discuss this issue so controversially today about an increase in the Federal Army budget, although we have already decided unanimously in 2015 and quoted a target rate of 1 percent of GDP for the Austrian federal army as more than adequate. We have now tabled a motion for a resolution in which we put the budget for 2020 to 2.9 billion euros, for 2021 to 3.3 billion euros and for 2022 to 3.6 million euros. I would like to raise the amount of euro. This is an approach to about 0.8% of the gross domestic product we had 15 years ago. I brought you a bit of a dilapidated table, but it's not nearly as desolat as the Austrian federal army. You can see that since 1986 we have had a continuous decline in the defense budget. These savings have led to a significant reduction in active full employment equivalents – by up to 16 percent. Even worse, this saving course has hit the equipment and infrastructure of the Austrian Federal Government: Protected and unprotected mobility has been reduced by a total of 60 percent; today we have 41 percent less than 15 years ago in aircraft. In the case of the heavy weapons systems – and, Mr Stögmüller, this is not an investment in false weapons systems, there was nothing invested – we have a minimum of 62 percent in the last 15 years. There is also a reduction in military infrastructure. The sites used have been reduced by 39 percent over the last 15 years – all in the same and increasing order situation. How our Austrian army and the brave soldiers with significantly less personnel and drastically reduced equipment are supposed to have grown the current requirements, you have to explain to me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional mission to the Austrian Federal Army for comprehensive national defence has not changed over the last decades. The recent years have shown how quickly security situations can change, how quickly unexpected events can happen to Austria as well: The rise and fall of the Islamic State, the Krimansxion and the Ukraine crisis, the Syria War and the current invasion of Turkey in Northern Syria, the 2015 migration crisis and the upcoming migration flows that will be coming to us in the coming years, the current cyber threat, the concern for a comprehensive blackout across Europe and much more. Our national supply and management structures are more vulnerable than ever. As a military officer and MP, I say to you: It is our duty and our responsibility here as Members of the National Council to adopt the laws necessary for the proper financing of the Austrian Federal Government. I urge all of you to assume this responsibility and support the present resolution to the Austrian Federal Government – as the first step towards the proper financing of the Austrian Federal Government, because if we do not act now, we will be unable to act in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11456	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I can assign the motion for a resolution 10/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[15:55:33]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (National Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. I No. 61/2018, amended (17/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11501	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I can give the applicant the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11529	Mr President. High house! The proposal, which is now before the debate, deals with a very, very serious and important issue in the field of internal security in Austria. We all know the shocking pictures, especially from the Middle East: Mass facilities, partly carried out by children, rapes, slave markets, defeated heads with which football is played, and so on and so on, all of them bestial crimes, of which one would not have thought they were in the 21st century. ==References====External links== With these pictures, the Islamic State shows its ugly fragility. He shows how thin the fir of civilization can be, and he shows how displaced people can be, who are collapsing under an ideology, in this case the fanatical-totalitarian interpretation of a religion. If you think that this is a local event, a local problem, then you're really wrong, because you're crazy from all over the world, I want to say that you're traveling to these war regions to take part in these fights and these bestial crimes – unfortunately also from Austria, you have to say that. This shows me that in the past there have been very, very many failures in the area of integration and prevention. I have to say quite honestly: I'm going to get a lot bad if I just think that the integration area might fall into the hands of the Greens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we know what threatens all of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Then false tolerance and naïveness, which is expressed as humanity, become the measure of things, and then these developments will multiply and multiply instead of resolutely telling them to fight. Promoting too much is the wrong way – demanding that is what we need to do when people have come to us and selected our country. In addition to the fire accelerators on the Internet, which play a very, very important role in the field of radicalization, we must of course also open our eyes where we have to deal with mosques and prayer houses, which unfortunately have also become some of the real recruitment offices for these Islamic fighters. At the end of last year, there were 320 people who were known to the authorities who wanted to leave or leave the Syrian-Iraq war zone. We already heard this morning that well two dozen of them are currently in captivity. Each of them is a ticking time bomb, otherwise it cannot be described. The decision of these people to go to war for the Islamic State is a fight against Austria and a declaration of war on our social values, on the rule of law and, of course, on democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is perfectly clear to us that these people have once and for all lost their right to Austrian citizenship. I am already excited about how the other parties will behave in the context of this request in future. For us it is perfectly clear: Persons who have committed or participated in fighting acts in the service of the Islamic State has to be deprived of citizenship – but not only that: Austrian citizenship also has to lose those who have worked together with these murderers and operated their infrastructure. It must not be forgotten: the hand-cuffs in the stage, if they are to be described as such, the cardiovascular system of these killer gangs, the people who brought them the ammunition, the people they bought. Perhaps now, one or the other in the left sector, when I quote Bertolt Brecht, is also dimming a passage from the poem “Questions of a reading worker”. There, among other things, it says: “Ceasar struck the gallier. Did he not at least have a cook with him?" And it is precisely this infrastructure and precisely this logistics in the background, because the thousand-fold murders, rape, enslavement, mutilation and estrangement would not have been possible without this infrastructure, only by fighting troops. That is why we, as the Freedom Party, are saying clearly: We don't get these ticking time bombs back and we're just spending one euro of tax money on them, but we're just getting their citizenship back. This is the consistent procedure in this case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For this we have to do only three things: We must reform the citizenship law and we must make two cancellations. The first concerns the termination of the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness by the UN and the second the termination of the European Convention on Citizenship. Although Austria has negotiated a reservation when signing the first UN Convention, this reservation unfortunately only affects the possibility of withdrawing citizenship from persons who have voluntarily entered the military service of a foreign state or who have caused serious damage to the reputation of Austria in the service of a foreign State. This leads us to the paradoxical situation that, for example, a foreign legionary who comes from Austria and fights against Islamist terrorists in Mali loses Austrian citizenship, while the Islamist on the other hand, when he comes from Austria, can retain Austrian citizenship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] That's a nonsense from our point of view. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem with the existing regulations is that the Islamic State is not a state formation by international law, and I do not think we should solve the problem by giving it this honor and recognition. That's why we're proposing the other way. And because I already know that the ÖVP always has a special voice of muffs when it comes to questioning international agreements or even proclaiming them, to anything that almost everyone does, to say no – I still know that from the migration pact, that was a stinging birth –: They do not need to fear, dear friends of the ÖVP, because we would not be alone in Europe with such a termination. Estonia, France, Greece, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Cyprus have not taken over this UN agreement, and the Irish have made it like the British, and they have secured far-reaching exceptions in this area. - That's the part. A second important part is that we have long been insisting that, for example, to condemn these criminals, these terrorists, those criminals' corresponding courts, a special court, comparable to those in The Hague, or with solutions as they have been established in connection with the Rwanda conflict and genocide that has taken place there, they are also established in Syria or Iraq. Negotiations against these persons should be conducted there. And their punishments shall be for those who commit crimes on the spot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the cheapest solution, which is also the most efficient solution, because one has to imagine how difficult it is to carry out such a procedure, including the guarantee of evidence by possible witnesses et cetera, when we are holding this here on site – that is almost a thing of impossibility – and it is above all a guarantee of security – not only for Austrian citizens, but also for all European countries, from which people for the Islamic state are involved in these military conflicts. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you if it is serious with the safety of Austria to support this request in a further way.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11650	Mrs Mahrer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11671	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! And – now I say it quite consciously at the beginning – dear Austrians! I would therefore stress this so much, because for many of us Austrian citizenship is a matter of course. But I also believe that Austrian citizenship is a very special privilege, linked to rights, connected with obligations. I also believe that citizenship and the matter governing citizenship is an extremely sensitive matter. The basic ideas of this proposal, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, are quite understandable to me. Many Austrians cannot understand at all why people who join the so-called Islamic State, a terrorist organization, should continue to enjoy the privilege of Austrian citizenship. The current legal situation, however, offers opportunities to withdraw citizenship – examples have been cited – for example, when someone volunteers in the military service of a foreign state or voluntarily participates in combat activities abroad for an organized armed group. But there is already a restriction, namely: The data subject must not become stateless. [[Abg. Kickl: The Hasherl!]] So why complicated, do Klubobmann Kickl and the FPÖ think, if it's so simple? Let us simply do away with the sentence in the Citizenship Act, which concerns this statelessness, and the problem is solved! – I understand, but it’s not that simple, it needs more. Mr Klubobmann, you mentioned it, there are international contracts. There is also at present a parliamentary process for questioning these Treaties, which is already in place in the Austrian Parliament. On the other hand, on the other hand, and we should address this now, there is a problem, namely that stateless people can no longer de facto, if we do so, be pushed off when they are in the country. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you want to move the Austrian to Austria, or what?]] At the moment, we all know that, for example, Mr Klubobmann Kickl, we are demonstrating numerous criminal Turkish citizens to Turkey. So let's think about it: If, in response to our possible move, Turkey would also deny its citizenship to these Turkish citizens, that would mean a new and additional serious problem. There would no longer be any way of delegating the country, because stateless people, ladies and gentlemen, do not have a home. No state would then take back its unloved citizens, but simply deny citizenship. I can't imagine this being in the interests of the applicants. We are at the beginning, the request is at first reading, we will have to consider and consider many aspects. This needs to be discussed in the committees and the advances and disadvantages of the measures also need to be balanced. Ladies and gentlemen, give me the opportunity to add another thought: For all these considerations we always need experts, in the case of experts from the Federal Ministry of the Interior. At the end of this speech, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank these experts of the Ministry of the Interior, for their daily work, for their daily work and for their expertise on behalf of our public service spokesman, Gertraud Salzmann, on behalf of the People's Party and, I hope, in all our names. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Nice, colleague, but in this case it is the experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs!]] All of you, the public servants, ladies and gentlemen – I would like to add – are on 27 and 28. November before a very special election, before the federal election of personnel representatives. I wish the public staff a staff representative who, together with us political leaders, strengthens their backs and works to ensure that their services are recognised and honoured accordingly. [[Abg. Kickl: (on the speaker) He was particularly popular with the police!]] My appeal to the end, so that it also becomes conciliatory: Let us discuss together in detail in the committees, involving experts from all ministries, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, and in the end find a well thought out, a sustainable and an internationally viable solution, in the sense and in the interest of the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11762	Mr Einwallner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11783	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Mr Klubobmann Kickl, in fact, it is a serious issue that you are dealing with with with your request, a subject to which you must also approach with the appropriate seriousness and seriosity. Before I come to the request, I would like to say that we have to look first and foremost at one thing, namely that there is a very important and central question, also for politics and for us politicians: How can we prevent or stop people, citizens, from radicalizing themselves in such a way that they take this step and go into battle in the Islamic war, and become criminals there? This must be the top priority that we have to put across parties, namely that we prevent young people – and you have said that it is not visible and not comprehensible – from radicalising themselves in these minds and deciding to join and participate in an armed conflict. But this also shows that it needs quite, very great efforts in the area of integration and deradicisation. That is where we are called, and there you, Mr Klubobmann, have been in duty in recent years. And there is also the question: What happened in the time of your ministry for radicalisation to be reduced, for deradization and integration to move forward? That's one of the central questions. Another question is: What have you done at European level, because this is, of course, an international issue, an issue that concerns us everywhere. [[Abg. Kickl: Then take a look at what we have achieved in the internet area! Check it out!]] Now to the request: It is again the old mesh of the FPÖ: You are proposing to solve a complex problem with a simple request. - I can't do that! That's what you're going to do to people, and that's what we're talking about. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] With all the seriousness of the theme you believe, so ruck, pull we solve the problem, or maybe I should rather say, bag, sack, bag we solve the problem. [[Abg. Kickl: I already know this: I can't! It was always like that!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Some people have to bag, sack, sack loosen, not zigzag!]] Unfortunately, this is not so easy to solve. No, your request does not lead to a solution to the problems, it presents us with new problems, because what does this mean? – This leads to increased statelessness. It cannot be our goal that we have stateless people who, in the future, can act outside any state control at all. It can't be the goal that this is the last consequence. In addition, we also - you have said - have to announce two agreements under international law. Two agreements, which the Republic of Austria has concluded, we would have to announce in order to be able to implement this amendment proposed by you at all. I'll tell you one thing: To withdraw from international agreements is clearly the wrong way in a question that is a subject throughout Europe. We need more internationalism, more cooperation on this issue and no less. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11852	Mr Amesbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11874	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the speeches of my predecessors of ÖVP and SPÖ, I am a bit too serious and the seriousness of the situation and the drama of the situation are not properly taken note of. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not talking about people coming back from the adventure holiday to Austria. We're talking about terrorists, suspected murderers, head carvers and rapists. And we want to show a solution, we want to show a way to get rid of such people. I do not need to listen to any of the colleagues from SPÖ who blames Herbert Kickl – that is absurd – for failing to integrate and deradize. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Murderers, terrorists and rapists, I don't need to deradiate them anymore and I don't want to integrate them in Austria anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't need them in Austrian prisons, and we need them already Not at all in Austrian society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We need to see that we get rid of these people, who are a huge potential for danger to our citizens, for our security, as soon as possible. Now to colleague Mahrer: You have referred to it, that is the first reading, and we will have the opportunity to talk about it in the parliamentary process, in the committees. Of course, if you have a proposal and if it is serious to you, you can look at it. It's important that we get rid of these people. The best thing we can do is, of course, that we recognize a person who has not yet returned to Austria and who knows that he is in a war or war zone, as soon as possible, as this is no longer our problem, whether he is on the move in Syria, Afghanistan or elsewhere as a stateless person. We could take a serious look at that. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this should be a matter that we should resolve from ideological debates. I know that some are going to be hard because they believe you can still talk to such people and seek dialogue and conversation, no matter what. We do not believe that it is possible that people who have participated in such actions and activities that the Islamic State sets out as active fighters or as supporters, in whatever form, have been reintegrated into our society in any form. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am looking forward to the discussions in the committee responsible and I hope that we will come closer to a reasonable solution in the sense of Austrian security, because one should be clear to us: IS terrorists, whose supporters and sympathizers have lost nothing in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11943	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e11964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important issue. I was in Syria for the last time in January, looked at the Kurdish territories there, researched there, looked at the prisons or researched them with the IS fighters – you don't come in. This is a hugely important issue. We have discussed this, tried to find a balanced, differentiated position on the request. I think we succeeded: He's pretty meaty. What you want to do there doesn't change anything at all, brings zero. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The simple reason is: It is now possible to deny the citizenship of fighters for another state. It's all right. Throwing people into statelessness does not help at all. This only prevents the rule of law from being properly cared for and dealt with by the rule of law. In case of doubt, support They are even the IS with the fact that the rule of law cannot deal with the fighters in a reasonable way. That's totally gaga. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, what is really a problem – and I ask you to take it into consideration in the future; this is a serious issue –: They expand the whole thing with a paragraph so far that people in the infrastructure, throughout the systems, can be deprived of citizenship in such areas, in such areas of struggle. This means that if an Austrian doctor works there in the hospital and helps and this city is conquered by the IS, then this person works under the rule of the IS, works under the administration of the IS and is a member of the IS administration, or he packs together and no longer helps the people. [[Abg. Kickl: No, no, no, no, no!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Read meaningfully!]] Do you want to automatically deny their citizenship? That's the worst thing you can do in this case. Please withdraw at least this paragraph, it is extremely harmful! Everything else is, as I said, just meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12040	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12061	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been discussed here, the FPÖ submits an application for the recognition of citizenship for Austrians who have joined an organization, an armed group, with an attack on the Islamic state. In our opinion, this request is, for several reasons, a serious bad idea on a subject which actually contains a very serious question, namely: How do we deal with people who are turning their backs on their country, and is the loss of citizenship to fight terrorism? To put this again in the context of numbers: According to the Constitutional Protection Report of the end of 2018, the BAT 320 people who came from Austria who actively participated or wanted to participate in the jihad in Syria and Iraq are known. 58 people were killed in the region, 93 people returned to Austria and stood in front of the judge. As the courts and prosecutors are very active, they can be active in the budgetary difficulties – the keyword of silent death of justice after the last federal government. According to BAT, 107 of these persons are still still in the war zone, and these persons are covered by this request. Even if this is not a lot, it is nevertheless a serious problem. However, the problem now is that the FPÖ in its application also provides for the recognition of citizenship for persons who then become stateless. However, we are trying to avoid unemployment with international and European agreements, Mr Kickl. And you have not taken these European agreements into account in your application. Stateless people then fall through every legal grid, and nobody has anything, neither the crisis regions concerned nor we. What do we do with a stateless person, who may come back to Austria again because she has family here because she has friends here and manages to return? In addition to this, we have the problem of statelessness, and we cannot move such a person, as Mr Mahrer has already said, to where? [[Abg. Kickl: As an Austrian, you can't push it off either!]] The statelessness of such radicalized people and their children – and this is what it is about – creates more problems than it solves. In our opinion, it would be right to observe international agreements, to secure evidence in the battleplaces – that is, Europol, as well as all, takes care to keep citizens in mind through secret services and European partner services and, if they return, to make them the process of deradizing in the sense of the rule of law. There is also the measure of reporting obligation, the observation of potential hazards – an effective BAT, Mr Kickl, is needed again. Leading terrorist experts like Peter Neumann repeatedly warn that people who lose sight of states are more dangerous to us because they are not brought back in control or because we refuse consular protection and therefore lose contact, because they are then uncontrolled and without our knowledge. And then who knows what they're doing in the shield? - We don't know. This request by the FPÖ is therefore a display of blue symbolic policy in the field of security for us. Such a measure sounds good at first, as many FPÖ proposals, as if you were really showing it to anyone, but it does not bring more security, but less. That is why we will vote against NEOS.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12100	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 17/A to the Budget Committee. [[16:22:50]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the Order of Education and Education in Schools governed by the School Organisation Act (Schullehrungsgesetz – SchUG), BGBl. No. 472/1986, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 86/2019, amended (21/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12139	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant Brückl shall speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12166	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In July of this year, the National Council, here we have decided to ban the wearing of worldly and religiously shaped clothing, which is associated with a housing of the head, for our students until the tenth year of life. Already in November last year, we made a similar decision, which applies to our children in kindergartens. We now ask for the extension of this scheme to pupils until the completion of the 14th century. Year of life as well as teachers. High house! Enlargement is a logical consequence of previous freedom of movement and freedom of movement. The Austrian People's Party also offers this proposal – and I am eager to do so – the opportunity to make its election promises, their statements in the election campaign through their support, through their cooperation, through their consent. High house! The headcloth as a sign, as a symbol of political Islam stands for equilibrium and stands for oppression – and thus contradicts the clear notions of a liberal, democratic fundamental order, which is one of the most important pillars of individuality and freedom. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or to say it with the words of Professor Taschner, the Education Spokesman of the People's Party, who meant here about six months ago from this point of view: The head cloth stands for a “forbidden to show his hair free, ” and it stands for a“ ban on realizing yourself. ” Thus, such a law is a liberation, we call it “buying - cloth exemption. ” High house! The separation of religion and state is one of the most important foundations of our enlightened social order, and political Islam can and must never be part of our social order, it must not question it and it must never undermine it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] High house! The Sharia can never become part of our rule of law, and in this way this law is supposed to prevent us from dealing with the integrational challenges of our time. I hope that there will be a broad cooperation between all parties in the legislative process and finally, if it is so far that we can bring the law to a decision in third reading that it will find broad agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12224	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12245	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We share the basic intensification of this request, I believe, on the way there, the FPÖ has now been misaligned, and I am happy to explain why. We, the just mentioned educational speaker Rudi Taschner and the then educational speaker Wendelin Mölzer, made a joint request on 25 September, with some serious differences. The strategy is now a bit, a request on a subject where we basically have a similar political will to make a few mistakes, in order to be indignant that the People's Party cannot agree with it. An example: At the time, on 25 September, we made the joint request that a head-towel ban should be imposed on teachers in the field of service rights, as is usual, and that is also the right matter law for this. Now, in this application, it says that this prohibition is to be recorded in the School Education Act. This is simply technically and technically the wrong matter law, and I don't understand what changed between 25.9. and today with you, that you no longer share these assessments. Next point: We have decided, as has already been said, the ban on the headscarf, the ban on the headscarf, the kindergartens and the public schools. This was also quite possible legally, because according to moderate Islam, girls do not wear a headcloth before sexual maturity. That's why one could very well imagine here that this is an extreme form of religion, and extremes can be quite well separated. But if we say now, we extend the ban until the 14th century. From the age of life, of course, this is no longer the argument you can draw, but you must be aware that in some areas this may be an intervention into religious freedom. And if one intervenes with fundamental rights, then one must, in order to ensure that this is durable before a constitutional court and can at all come into force, maintain proportionality, provide a good reason and consider it very well. That is why, on 25 September, we jointly said in a request that we want to send this into consideration, that we want to hold discussions with constitutional judges, and that we want to precisely defy it so that it is sustainable and can actually become reality before the Constitutional Court. I'll get you together. We share the basic intensification, we believe that it is precisely these things that are being addressed, that is why we have also decided on them and, as has been said, put this extension into a joint proposal. Mr Klubobmann Kickl said that FPÖ is the only party offering solutions in this area. Okay, that's not how this application looks. If you really want to offer solutions, then you also have to do it objectively and technically, because it does not bring anyone out there if you only make populist any request that has no chance of implementation. So let's get back on the way! The proposal of 25 September, which we have jointly decided, is the right way, which is also the objectively sustainable way of achieving a result. In this respect, we have not changed our opinion, quite the contrary, we are still firmly convinced that we should do so. So let's do this, please, and together, and don't make a request with factual errors, in which you wonder that he won't agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12296	Mr Hammerschmid has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12318	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, above all Mr Brückl! I am always amazed at the fact that you make headcloth and political Islam the same as if there were no distinction. [[Abg. Worm: The experts did this! Mrs Colleagues, you were there! The experts held it that way!]] I think you have never been in contact with the group of Muslims who wear a headcloth – and that is, quite voluntarily, with self-confidence and also with great dignity. But that's another discussion. [[Abg. Worm: The experts have defined this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] Today's debate is really a Déjà-vu for me to spring and early summer this year, when it was also about the head covering ban. [[Abg. Worm: You were in the committee!]] Today we are dealing with the extension of the same. I looked at your argument: At the time, you argued with the topic of children's rights. I have already found this very cynical, in the context that you have at the same time cut children's rights by reducing social assistance to 1,50 euros for the third child. Since to argue with children's rights is real hoon. And now you widen out this argument, you hear and marvel: ‘The purpose of this scheme is [...] to guarantee the protection of Muslims [...] who do not practice the cover of personal convictions [...]’, as well as the protection of ‘those followers of the direction of Islam in which the cover is not a practice and thus ensure a free decision on the exercise of religion [...]’. Since when have you been the lawyer of Muslims? [[Abg. Worm: You didn't take care of that, Mrs. Colleague! We are in favour of women's rights, Mrs Colleague, you should have understood this before, for a free, open, tolerant society!]] It's a terrible thing. In addition, stress the early sexual segregation, while in the topic of German classes you have not hesitated to push this stamp on children. – Do I still believe that?- Oh, my God! That's incredible! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] It's really awesome! Of course, we Socialists and Socialists are deeply convinced that no girl should be forced to wear a headscarf. - That's quite clear. However, with this ban as a single measure you do not achieve anything in the field of social challenges integration or equality of women in our society. On the contrary: They misuse this topic for populism, for your populist concerns – and it is far too important for us Social Democrats. I can't do that. It is also said: I doubt that the ban will be effective at the end of the day, because there is still domestic education and private schools without public law in Austria. I fear that truly radical parents will send their children there – and then we have no control of the public institutions at all as regards the protection of children's rights. What there is to say about the integration engine school: Yes, there were really many measures that we have repeatedly called for and implemented in the integration package. This is about language starting groups, about more German teachers, about integration teachers, about social workers, about psychologists in schools – especially in those schools where the biggest challenges are. What did you do? – You have abolished this integration package. Today's debate on children's rights has also revealed a lot. That is, your proposal does nothing to solve social problems at all. I invite you once again to seek the discourse, to look for it honestly in width, so that we really find good solutions here in Parliament on the issue of integration and on the issue of equality between women. - It's certainly not the headcloth ban.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12406	I can warmly welcome the students of the Camillo Sitte Bautechnikum. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Hamann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12436	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am here for the very first time, and I think it is very interesting that I get to do it right now with a request from Mr Kickl, in which there is something that I think is right. However, it is only a very short passage that I think is right. It says how important the free self-determination of girls is. - Completely right. How do we promote the free self-determination of girls? I just introduced myself to a 13-year-old girl. You can remember how you once were – or you may have someone like that at home. She has a twist with her parents, feels unintelligible, is uncertain, may not feel quite comfortable in her own body. How can a 13-year-old be led to put off her head cloth, and how does one help her to choose freely and self-determinedly? – By threatening, forbidding, imposing fines, pointing at her finger, permanently hacking around on her and this girl is constantly tearing through the public arena all the time? – You certainly don't do that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can tell you how to promote free self-determination – I don't know if you know it so well at the FPÖ –: by giving, for example, through relationship, through appreciation, by taking girls seriously, by giving them security, for example, by doing feminist burishing and feminist girlwork in school, by staying in constant conversation with parents and giving them the feeling that they are being taken seriously. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Lord]] A girl will be able to choose freely and self-determinedly if her personality is given quite, quite a lot and her clothes very little attention. Do with your legislative proposal Unfortunately, you're just the opposite, and with every time you talk about the headcloth again and again and again and again and not about man, you'll load up the headcloth with even more meaning and make it even stronger as a symbol than it is anyway. They thus generate despite, hardening and cultural struggle, and thus – this is especially tragic – you actually do the business of the religious fundamentalists. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't know if you really want to. The difference between you and us is anyway: I'm sure we don't want to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12494	Member Martina Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear students! It is now almost eight years since we decided to create a new movement, a new party: the NEOS. Why was I there from the beginning, what was there my driver? – I was there from the beginning because NEOS has always been a very, very big concern to look at topics holisticly and from various perspectives, to make evidence-based policy decisions, to deposit content with figures and facts. That was one of the reasons for our foundation. Another important point for us was and is it still that we want to live in a society that is open and tolerant and in which all people should be well. I am glad to be able to give my first speech here in the House today. I am very pleased that as a new educational spokesperson of NEOS, I am allowed to give the first speech on the subject of the headline ban, because I think it is very well suited to the just saying. The headgear ban is used by the FPÖ as a symbol. Symbols are good and beautiful – where they fit. In my opinion, they are not in place on the issue of integration. My knowledge is that there are no meaningful figures and facts or studies that demonstrate or show how many students are affected at all, and in my world the figures and facts are first on the table, and only then can we talk about meaningful measures. We want to rethink the question of integration, and for us this is about equal opportunities and future prospects for children and young people, young people and young adults. It is about all children and not just about our children, all the children who live here in Austria. We need measures that do not divide society, measures that promote pluralistic, open and tolerant free society. Education is still inherited in Austria. That was already the case when I was studying the subject of education 20 years ago, and that is still the case today. If there are young people who answer the question of what they want to become: AMS!, then it's just depressing for our country. The socio-economic rise in almost no other country is longer than in Austria: He needs generations. We therefore propose a comprehensive package of measures for the integration and promotion of children and young people from socially disadvantaged and far-reaching shifts – and these are not mandatory German classes, but these are, for example, two mandatory years of kindergarten, which is the introduction of an ethical and religious education or a bonus for schools that address the challenges facing our society. The OECD Economic Report of today also shows impressively what everything is to be done. I can assure you that I am looking forward to the work and discussions in the Committee, and I can assure you that we have NEOS with many other good evidence-based proposals on this subject. If the children are important to us, then we should go beyond this symbolic ban and invest in integration, education and schools that face challenges. I'm looking forward to the committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12579	I can welcome the students of the HAK from Spittal quite cordially here in the Hohe Haus. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Which Spittal?]] The debate on item 9 on the agenda is closed because no one has spoken. I can assign Amendment 21/A to the Budget Committee. [[16:42:48]] 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues regarding a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Financing of Political Parties (Parteiheidgesetz 2012 – PartG) (30/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12624	We are now coming to Agenda item 10. We are going into the debate and the applicant receives the floor. Mrs Klubobfrau, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12653	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Clean politics, a policy that is not suspected of following interests other than those of the Austrians, is a topic that we have discussed very intensively – and too intensively – over the last months, and if I look into the newspapers today and probably tomorrow, read and see what is happening around Novomatic and the casinos Austria and the board order there, I would say it is more up-to-date than ever. On the occasion of the revelations around the Ibiza video, we have said NEOS quite clearly that it is a Urliberal attitude to limit power concentration. Power needs control! I have, I think, also said at this point – and it is already important to me to note that – it is not that we as NEOS stand up and say: We're the better people! We're the clean party! We are the party where nothing can happen because we are the better people in themselves! But we have said that there is a need for control and transparency in order to prevent any influence on politics, illegal practices or anything else. We have discussed intensively the question of party funding and the question of how we can enable control and transparency in the election campaign, and I believe that the Austrians have heard enough in the very numerous TV debates, how many projects have been voiced, and enough just to conjure up, and especially the top candidates, that we must finally become active here. I believe that this is nothing less than the credibility of policy by saying that we are finally delivering in this area. – Power needs control, party power needs control and party finance Control and, of course, transparency. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Maurer.]] What we don't need is toothless pseudo-measures that ultimately don't work, but we need as sharp laws as possible that are practical as I have to say, but that's clear anyway, but as close as possible to what we want, namely that we can suffocate any circumvention in the germ so that it can no longer exist. There's a very, very important point: Trust is good, but control is better, so to trust the accounts of the parties that are being published is all right, but even better if the Court of Auditors can also check whether what is being reported actually corresponds to the facts. [[Rejoicing of the speaker]] I can well remember – there are no colleagues who have joined me in the top candidates, or am I currently looking at someone? – that we were all standing in the elephant round and for the time being the question was asked: Are you in favour of the Court of Auditors controlling party finances? – Almost everyone kept the Taferl in height with Yes. I take you by word, and I also ask: What are we waiting for? The question of party finances, the transparency of party finances, the control of party finances is one of the most immediate tasks that the parties must agree on, nowhere else than here in the House. In my opinion, we do not have to wait for a government that will then, as it were, require all the parties to do so by the majority, as this has to be done, but it is about the rules of the parties, democracy in Austria itself, and that is the most important task of our Parliament here. We have tabled a number of proposals. I have now focused on the Court of Auditors' control, because I believe it is the simplest way. I heard the SPÖ suggests that you might choose a different body for that. Quite honest: For what? – There is a Court of Auditors who works. We bring the accounts there, there are officials who deal with the matter that is familiar with it. It is a control body of Parliament, it is also by law responsible for party finances, so why should we talk about it for months now, what other institution is there in Austria or which should be re-founded? - That's ridiculous! As a politician, we must deliver, and supply and restore the confidence of the population in politics means that we are making nails with our heads on this point and finally decide on these laws – and of course, as I believe, the Court of Auditors is the appropriate place. However, we have also put on the table other proposals which, in part, also comply with the Court of Auditors' recommendations, partly also with what experts have brought into the debate. One point – and I would like to address that on current occasions – is to try to prevent illegal party financing in Austria from Clubs can work – by the way, something we have repeatedly pointed out. I can remember that a day before this Ibiza video came to light, I was here and asked the then Chancellor Sebastian Kurz if we could actually rule out such dubious financing under our party financing laws. – He said at the time: Of course, we have such a sharp law! - That's not true! We can't rule it out, so we have to do – and that's probably the smartest – in the association law to ensure that we don't pass through such association structures financing that is actually nothing but illegal. In this context, I would like to point out once again that in this whole convolut around Ibiza, but also in the discussion that we now have about a suspected state of decency also of the former ÖVP finance minister, but also concerning the board order in the Casinos Austria, this sentence of Ibiza video: “Novomatic pays everyone” – that is, all three big ones are meant, I read it; I want to say to protocol that it was explicitly said that it is not the Greens, it is not the NEOS, but the three big or the three medium-sized parties – already standing in the room here. The whole thing is happening in a procedure that is currently under way, in which house searches have just taken place, in which there are post-occupies and the suspicion of the corruption of no fewer than two former ÖVP finance ministers – one of them being a close confidant in the government under Sebastian Kurz–. As a policy, we must deliver! If we want to restore the credibility of politics and allow the Austrians to look into the eye and tell them: We are exclusively committed to you and no one else, and we will, according to best knowledge and conscience, weigh the different interests and make decisions in your mind and not in the sense of any institutions, companies, persons or associations that are otherwise in the background – most of them hidden – then we have to deliver as a policy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today a lot has been talked about the outstretched hand – I like that. I come back once again to the fact that I said that it is one of the Parliament's most immediate tasks, the parties, to decide how to live with each other, which rules should apply to the parties. Proposals from us are on the table. We will now address the various areas – control by the Court of Auditors, greater transparency, higher penalties, stronger sanctions, but also the possibility of collecting associations – to all political groups asking to enter into discussions. There is also the possibility to make committee opinions or similar and to invite experts to the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make nails with heads and let's see that we deliver! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12757	Next item is the speech of Mrs Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12778	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! It has already been mentioned: We have recently discussed a lot about party funding, here in the house, in the media and in the public. ==References== In July of this year, the last novel was passed to the party law. Today, there is a NEOS request which has just been presented by Mrs Klubobfrau. The NEOS write in this request: “The rules on party law are in need of reform because they currently only assign tasks to the Court of Auditors without genuine control.” Yes, ladies and gentlemen, but from my point of view, it needs more than simply extending control powers. The ÖVP has this in a request from the 12th. In June of this year, in the light of “preventing circumvention, maintaining better control of election advertising expenditure and ensuring greater transparency”. I can deal with a few points: Mrs Klubobfrau has already pointed out associations that make donations in connection with an election campaign. These would have to be included in the Party Act as much as the organisations close to the parties – by the way, a recommendation from the Court of Auditors that would prevent the possible withdrawal of election costs. According to media reports, the 2019 National Council election campaign was supported by the association of trade unionists in SPÖ with six-digit euro amounts, for example by the orientation of major events. For the purposes of the Court of Auditors, such circumventions shall be stopped. Another point is the approximation of the organisations close to the parties to the political parties. To formulate it politely: It is obvious that there was a gap in July of this year. Thus, the Pensionist Association of SPÖ is not subject to the regime of the party law, but very probably to the Senior Federation of the ÖVP. I assume that this inequality has happened due to the short time of the preparation of the legislative novels. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] A villain, ladies and gentlemen, who think otherwise! Other points include, for example, a ban on the donation of associations whose activities are directed against the basic democratic order, such as the identities, or the preparation and publication of their own report on the election costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, a new revision of the party law is necessary! The Constitutional Committee will deal with this. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: If he had been constituted! Yeah, if he'd already been constituted!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12821	Mr Matznetter came to speak; not from the bank, but from the pult. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e12842	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen and sisters! That's a delicate subject, and it's good that we're dealing with it. Colleagues Singer, with his statements made here under the protection of immunity, were written in the parent book: I believe, Mr President, that I know enough of events, perhaps not even of private associations, but of legal bodies, in which thematically many things I hear from the People's Party. I wouldn't interpret this as an election donation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] – In case you want to say something like that again, my advice is simply to keep it in mind. But now to the NEOS: Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, I understand! Peter Pilz was still standing here a short time ago and has dealt with the question of crack sausage and salad roof. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You mix two things there!]] I therefore understand that you are trying to do this now: We're the cleaners! – That's okay, that's part of it! That's okay. I just want to point out: Let's talk about it! [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: What do you mean by unclean? What, do you think, is unclean? What are you accusing me of?]] We have a first reading, we are talking about the rules here that make sure the citizen and the citizen that policy is not available through large donations! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You've already regulated that!]] Precisely, but the question of the review is one - - I know you are nervous, Mrs Klubobmann, but it does not change anything. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: And what about your clubs?]] I'm telling you something positive. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: If you have an accusation...!]] Let's talk about it! I just want to remember a few things. First: What is the current legal situation? Then maybe you should look in first! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Bad!]] That would have been great, because then you would have come up with it: Those auditors who control the parties are currently being selected by whom? From the parties? – No, Mrs. Colleague! From the Court of Auditors! [[Abg. Loacker: The term superinstructor has been invented at a Matznetter speech!]] And who selects a second auditor? – You can help the woman of the club if she does not know! – Again from the Court of Auditors, speak of the President! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] If the Court of Auditors misrepresents a statement in the accounting report, then what is it? Does the Court of Auditors simply have to accept this? – No, he can prescribe the party to clarify this! Does the Court of Auditors have to be satisfied with this? – No, he may, if the party’s response remains unclear or incorrect, require the auditors selected by the Court of Auditors to test the information. [[Abg. Maurer: Yes!]] Does the Court of Auditors have to be satisfied with this, Mrs Maurer? [[Abg. Maurer: Yes!]] - No! – No, he can say: [[New call of the abg. Maurer.]] I appoint another examiner whom the President of the Chamber of Tax Advisors and Auditors chooses. He may assign the third party to the examination. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Maurer.]] So it's not like we don't have an examination room. We need to discuss this when the proposal is discussed. We also need to talk about something second, ladies and gentlemen: The Court of Auditors is an institution of Parliament. It is, let us say, not quite unproblematic when an organ of one's own house produces a complete all-power. We need to talk about whether the balances are right. That is what I am deliberately saying in the direction of those fellow Members who, in this inconceivable spectacle of the post of the President of the Court of Auditors or – where is Mr Moser? – were involved twelve years ago. It is not true that there is a non-political process, which has reminded us more of a basic approach. I recall the good candidates there were from the Greens for the Court of Auditors' office. I am therefore saying that this is also a related matter. The Court of Auditors is not a court. There are, of course, interests. Let us see that we reach a reasonable solution, we discuss it! We don't have to do it on the sausages. Fortunately, the large donations have ended, and this helps Austrian democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13009	I call Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13030	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In July, we passed a very strict party law, drastically reducing the limits for individual donations. We have also adapted the reporting obligations to the Court of Auditors accordingly. It is important to examine the funding of the parties by two auditors, who – I am now joining colleagues Matznetter – are actually selected by the Court of Auditors from a list, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger. In addition, we also have the Independent Party Transparency Senate, and now we want to have the Court of Auditors examined. That's an idea, you can discuss it, not a question at all. Of course, we will do so, we will not shut down such a discussion. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I believe that, as I have said, the Court of Auditors is a body of the Parliament which we can partly appoint, but which does, in any case, carry out its audit tasks itself and per se examines the administration. He is an organ that raises savings potential for us at an unimportant level. It shows frictions in the system and is, so to speak, the internal revision of the state of Austria. I believe that if we are now discussing the lack of resources and the lack of financial resources of the Court of Auditors, it would be useful for you, if you are already working somewhere, to really look at the system of using resources accordingly, financing. There we must ensure that we have really better results with regard to an efficient financial performance of our state. That would be my opinion on this, but, as I said, We are happy to discuss whether, although we are already being controlled twice – namely by the auditors and by the Independent Party Transparency Senate – we still need a third body, which examines the parties, where this test body is then again an organ of Parliament. But, as Mr Matznetter has so well said, we are talking about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13073	Mrs Sigrid Maurer spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13094	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, party funding in Austria, that's a pretty sad game. We always need one scandal after another, so we can change and improve a bit. The big throw is missing. In this case, I am quite grateful to NEOS for the submission of these requests – that is now the first reading on one of them – because from our point of view it does not need what the SPÖ would like: another Commission, another working group where papers are being discussed. We know exactly what needs to be changed in the area of transparency or in party funding, so that trickery and fraud do not work that way in this field. Mr. Matznetter! I was at the other play of mourning, the one that last affected the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. There were also many tricks. I can tell you, however, that the Court of Auditors has so many officials working with absolutely pure conscience and best intention and absolute correctness that I am not concerned that a President of the Court of Auditors order will result in a less rigorous review of the reports of a particular party. What you have said is that the Court of Auditors can stand up for such a great deal is simply wrong. The Court of Auditors has no way of resisting it if parties issue an accountable report. He cannot independently control, he cannot independently look into the books, into the accounts, whether what the parties indicate is actually right. The application, which is available, would allow for a real flow of money between the party, the Academy and the club. So far, one has had to rely on the fact that the representation is true. There are other things, for example, the mid-streams of clubs. As a result, the Court of Auditors has great scepticism as to whether the reports submitted to it correspond to the truth, for example in the 2017 accountable report of the FPÖ, word Ibizavideo. With reference to the Ibiza video, the Court of Auditors also asked whether associations would have received money, in particular the Association of Austria in Motion and the Association of Economics for Austria, and the FPÖ has submitted reports to the Court of Auditors, in which it is reasonable that there has been no service to political parties or preparatory organisations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] For the Court of Auditors, as he says in his own press release, these are: There is no doubt that the reports of the Wirtschaftsprücher-GmbH were limited to certain associations and they were not there. So it is simply not true what Mr Matznetter said that the Court of Auditors had sufficient powers – he did not. In this case, the FPÖ simply papered the Court of Auditors. This would no longer be possible with a view to accounting. Another point that would be met with this request: There are also so tricks that you can just give the accountable report and see if the Court of Auditors does not care about it anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] If he then comes up with something, for example, on donations that have been announced in press releases or so, then he can be improved without penalty. This trickery would also end with this request, and we definitely support it. In principle, we also believe that it is Parliament's task to work on this large package of transparency. It was quoted, the hand is stretched out. Yes, the hand is stretched out. We are convinced that we need to make a substantial contribution in this area, and we will be committed to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13170	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. I agree with the request 30/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[17:07:32]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. ==References====External links==* Official website Feber 1968 on electrical wiring systems, which is not changed to two or more federal states (33/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13210	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. Mrs Doublebauer, you have spoken on this point. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13234	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home! We NEOS take the concerns of citizens very seriously. Participation is important to us and has been one of our core values since our founding in 2013. After several meetings with a citizens' initiative from Upper Austria, specifically from the Mühlviertel, we decided to support this initiative politically. Why? – Because these committed people rightly point to a problem, to a failure that has already been solved in many European countries, but is ignored by politics in Austria. Despite loud protests from stakeholders, from citizens' initiatives, from experts to now nothing has happened, but I am quite confident that we may be doing something in this House. What's this about? – It is about the fact that international 110 kV lines are already being built as a standard only more than Earth pipelines – we are talking about these power lines that stand in the beautiful landscape with us. In Austria, it is still Usus that one is planning and building these transmissions because they are said to be much cheaper than the Earth's pipelines. There it is from our It is very important that you look at the costs, of course; the costs are important. We all want to see that you don't spend too much money in this area. However, if you look at this subject more precisely, you can see that these data, which are used to calculate the costs here, are outdated. In the meantime, there are already standard methods used abroad, which have significantly reduced the cost of construction and also for the preservation of these earth pipelines. The numbers can be read. Nevertheless, the country's policy is completely over the population, through the citizens' initiatives. It is blocked and international evidence is simply erased from the table. Not enough of this, one buys unnecessary damage to the landscape, as well as damage to the environment. Roads that are 40 meters wide will be built, and it will be beaten into forests to build these free lines. This is not only not beautiful, it is also really bad for the environment. Thus, one also ignores the loss of value of land use properties, thus creating unnecessary conflicts and, in the worst case, delays for the so important energy infrastructure projects in economic policy. Greetings also to the people in the 3,000 households who are waken up without electricity today – they have read it in the newspaper. The cause was that trees fell down by the strong snowfall and fell on lines. That wouldn't have happened with an Earth line. But I hope, of course, and wish everyone that this has now been corrected. If you were to look at all these costs and really calculate them in terms of cost-truth and cost transparency, you would of course notice that transmissions in general are even more expensive than Earth pipelines. That is why, based on international evidence, we have written this own initiative proposal, based on examples mainly from Germany and Switzerland, with which we want to state by law that power lines up to a voltage of 110 kV no longer need to be built as transmission lines, but as earth pipelines. As already mentioned, this has long been true in Germany and Switzerland. In case anyone here thinks there's going to be a good reason why this isn't the case in Austria, I'm referring to the state of Salzburg: Salzburg has already found a clear system at the national level. It is also proven that there is actually no obvious reason not to lay transmissions, which are still being built in such a way, as Earth pipelines. There is probably only one reason known to us, namely that there is no political will to implement in the federal states. That is why we want to create a uniform scheme for Austria in which we maintain that power lines are transferred to new routes with a nominal voltage of 110 kV or less under appropriate conditions as Earth cable. Finally, I would like to thank the many citizens who have been very dedicated to us and with much evidence, as well as the experts who have been invited to do so, and especially the millers who have worked with us at the same level and, as I believe, to the right degree. That is why, ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber, I would like to ask you to look at this proposal for an initiative. It's about a 110 kV line, we're not talking about tensions that are going on. Look You like this once again with experts, but please support us in this matter in the end! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13300	Next item is the speech by Mrs Dr.in Maria Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13322	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! Believe me, even us from the People's Party are important both citizens' participation and aesthetics and the landscape. However, before once again imposing bans or obligations in typical Austrian manners, allow me to take a commercial look at the subject – I would expect you, the NEOS, to take this into account – as well as the aspect of security of supply. With regard to security of supply, 110 kV cables should only be installed where this is absolutely necessary, i.e. in sensitive areas, that is densely built where the distance from lines to residential areas is particularly low. Why? – In the case of earth cables, due to voltage fluctuations – I save you the physical details – no reliable operation in companies with sensitive machines is possible. But this is particularly important and critical especially in times of digitization, in times of networked production. Why is that so? – The risk of network failures is particularly high in the case of partial wiring – i.e. if it does not take place comprehensively and everywhere – at interfaces between earth cables and free lines. Now imagine what it means for a company when suddenly the operation stands! I can only tell you from my own experience: That's not a rosy idea to put it out nice once. Now, of course, we can demand that we need a comprehensive Earth cabling to minimize this risk of failure. However, this would also mean that we have to put in place an earth wiring all over Austria, and this would result in additional costs of around EUR 1 billion. But this is an amount that I could well imagine being used in other areas, such as research and innovation, in the field of environmental technologies or in the development of renewable energy. The issue of troubleshooting is also particularly relevant to the economy. In the case of earth pipelines, the error analysis and fixation on average takes 13 times as long as in the case of free lines, and in order to maintain the network operation safely, several lines have to be built side by side, which naturally increases costs. I don't think this is particularly sustainable. But let us first of all come to the aspect of the additional cost factor in the request: They require the use of earth cables if the additional cost factor does not exceed 2,5. I'm wondering now: How do we define this additional cost factor? – If we only count the costs of cable and construction, then we are with a factor of about two, so that would come in. However, if we take in the additional costs, i.e. an extended route guide, we are at an extra cost factor of 3.2. Then, in fact, we wouldn't need the law anyway, and creating a regulation that we don't need is a bit of a turtle stroke, I think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] We haven't talked about the life span yet. The life span of free lines is about 80 years, that of earth cables at about 40 years. [[Abg. Double builder: technology with...!]] To sum up, I would like to ask myself, of course, about additional costs: Who pays this? – On the one hand, we could say that the network operators are missing, as has been said, the money for the expansion of renewable energy, research, innovation, and, on the other hand, it is much more likely that customers will pay. Who are these customers? – On the one hand, I, all of us, that is private customers, on the other, it is the Austrian economy, the Austrian industry, and I believe that in a high wage country like Austria, it is not very sensible to continue to turn on the cost screw, as we would thus put our competitiveness at risk. We know the following: Retirement, job losses. So I don't think that's crazy. On Salzburg, Mrs Colleague, because you mentioned this: There are explicitly not the 110 kV lines mentioned, but the 220 and 380 kV lines, and this again only in sensitive areas. I would really ask you not to compare apples with pears – in such a case you would blame populism again. A wiring of 110 kV lines in rural areas is therefore, of course, in exceptional cases, in very densely populated areas absolutely in order, but a general commitment does not make a great deal of sense from a national or a local point of view, I think. I don't think the desire for aesthetics should cause us to throw our house mind overboard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13364	Next speaker: Mr Alois Schroll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13389	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate High House! Estimated students as well as spectators at the gallery and at home! The application submitted concerns the novelle of the Starktromwegwegegesetz from 1968, a law that is certainly no longer in modern time, a law that is no longer in line with today's demands, triggered by the technical revolutions, as we experience them in the energy and electricity sectors. However, not only the further development in the technical field requires adaptations, but also the factors of man and of course the environment play a very crucial role. We're in the middle of an energy turnaround. We are not only part of it, but we are the preparers and the carriers and therefore also those who have to deal with the necessary changes. Much has happened since the beginnings of the Ökostrom Act in Austria – that is now 20 years ago. The proportions of decentralised electricity generation and, fortunately, renewable energy have increased steadily. Together with hydropower, we come to a value of more than 72 percent in the production of electricity. No other country in the EU, ladies and gentlemen, has similar values. Members of the House, I believe we all agree on this point: that investment and expansion into a forward-looking electricity and energy infrastructure are essential. This is not just about achieving the Austrian climate targets. Those who say to the Ökostrom Yes must also say yes to new power lines and to the transport of electricity. Also the associated safe- the creation of a high-performance power supply for both households and industry, for businesses, the health sector and so on, is at the heart of the discussion. What the infrastructure projects in the field of electricity should look like – whether the lines are moved underground or underground under 110 kV – there are numerous discussions and many different opinions. If the former responsible for the energy industry on the ground, once they are themselves concerned, are opposed to the expansion of the electricity grid, only makes it clear that we still have a lot of work in front of us here. In our view, however, it is precisely the problem. It is true that free lines are visible in the landscape, while the Earth's cables are not visible and are located in the earth. In both cases, however, there are limitations, land limitations and land use. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the challenge for us. The involvement of the population in planning, which is considered to be inadequate, can not only lead to the rejection of the specific path, but can also lead to the questioning of entire management projects. However, these projects are essential for the expansion of the infrastructure needed for the energy transition. The lack of transparency, lack of communication or the complete failure of early integration of the directly affected residents, as well as in various other projects, often leads to doubts about the meaningfulness of these projects, especially in the case of trans-regional projects. Ladies and gentlemen, it has just been mentioned by my predecessor: Earth wiring has much higher prices – up to two-and-a-half times higher prices. There is a question to be asked, ladies and gentlemen, who will bear these costs. Probably not the producer of electricity, but finally Otto normal consumers, i.e. the citizens. It is therefore necessary to ensure that it does not remain dependent on these. An obligation to wiring in this context seems to us as SPÖ overwhelming. Instead, the available cable variants should generally be tested for their technical meaning in the line projects. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our position. In the case in question, the form in which the management project is implemented is to be assessed. It should not be subject to an exclusive obligation and be accompanied by a strong and timely involvement of the Austrians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13444	Mr Mag. Philipp Schranglget as the next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13468	The proposed proposal of the NEOS concerns the amendment of the Electricity Road Law 1968. To this end, it must be said that my home country Upper Austria, which is also the applicant's home country, is particularly affected by it. Three such new lines are planned in Upper Austria, in the Mühlviertel, in the Innviertel and also in the Almtal. That is why I understand the brilliance of this request for the applicant, but also for me. In this context, one must always try to bring several things into one's mind: Security of supply, safety of the building for people and the costs for the user. A feasibility study has also been commissioned, and I am very excited about what it will show us. I am particularly looking forward to the discussion. I think we're getting new impulses to perhaps raise an antiquities law to 2020, because one must be aware of all of us here: We will have to deal with the rise of renewables and alternative energy sources, because it will probably take more than less lines in the next future. We liberals have open access and are open to results. As I said, I am very excited about the feasibility study and am looking forward to the discussions in the Committee. I hope that we will achieve a good solution for Austria for the population, but also for security of supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13505	Mrs Astrid Rössler's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13529	On this request for the wiring of 110 kV lines there is already some experience in other federal states that shows how difficult it is to change a project already submitted in individual parts. It will be decisive not only on technology, but above all on the route planning and the possibility of early knowledge of which areas can be wired or which areas will not be wired to have certainty. In principle, I think it is very superior to discuss this request in detail and to consider whether, except for the occasion, the concrete law should generally be suitable for management procedures in Austria. At present, I see a weakness in the fact that the application concerns only lines which are not cross-border. It is relatively simple to plan a management over several federal states in order to negotiate this at the next higher legal level according to the Starkstromwegegesetz. This will remove the efforts of the countries. I speak from the sad experience of Salzburg. Salzburg has been very concerned about a good solution in the sense of partial wiring. In particular, public interest has been given a very high priority and thus the possibility of actually weighing the landscape arguments and the concerns of residents in the process. This also includes different minimum distances to dedicated settlement areas and individual buildings, which is definitely a very difficult thing in a very heavily populated landscape. Nevertheless, we have failed in the implementation of the national electricity law, unfortunately, because it has become a cross-border project and the national law has not been applied. I would like to point out another aspect: 110 kV is a pipe dimension, in which one should actually discuss several or larger sections of a partial wiring – I think this is a good solution – but I want the technology to be available – that one should also consider a partial wiring for 220 kV and 380 kV in the sense of the same arguments, because especially in the case of the The construction of high-voltage lines, of course, also results in major interventions and changes in the landscape. It is, I mean, an illusion to believe that with partial wiring you can solve the entire conflict potential in itself. One can alleviate it, one can weigh and, above all, the affected communities, give the population the feeling that they have a say and their concerns are also taken into account. In a country such as Austria with such a high value added from tourism, I consider the nature conservation arguments, the landscape arguments certainly can also be used for monetary purposes. As additional costs are always mentioned: I already believe that in a tourism country, from when infrastructure is becoming such a major nuisance that they actually affect the economic value of the landscape. It will therefore be important to discuss the Austrian applicability in the Committee. This seems to me very important, as well as legal anchoring, not only by country but also by country and by country, and by looking at the cost issue in detail in the debate, because I see it as a difficulty in determining well-founded and weighing out the various procedures. In principle, we are very happy to take part in this discussion with the questions that have yet to be clarified.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13587	No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I agree with Amendment 33/A to the Budget Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:30:17]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13621	We shall now proceed to the vote on time-limits. Debates of the European Parliament Vogl, Worm, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Committee for Reporting on Requests 24/A, a deadline until 10 October. December 2019 to be set up. If you vote for this deadline, I would ask for a sign of approval. – But this is difficult now; I ask the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate to support it. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, the Budget Committee for Reporting on Amendment 6/A, for a period of time until 10. December 2019 to be set up. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the request by Members Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 3/A(E) for a deadline until 14. November 2019 to be set up. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:31:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00003_d7e13672	I announce that, at today's meeting, self-employed applications 38/A(E) to 96/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5.33 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
