ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6047	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall open the 70. Meeting of the National Council. I can welcome you at lunchtime. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery – as visitors or as rapporteur – and especially at home on televisions, welcome you! [[12:00:47]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of Members to the National Council Barbara Krenn
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6071	At the beginning of the commemoration of the deceased Members, I may call on the National Councillor Barbara Krenn. [[Deputies shall rise from their seats.]] [[In the square of Abg. Krenn stand a flowering stick as well as a black bordered photo of the deceased.]] Mrs. Barbara Krenn, the National Councillor, took us on 3rd. In April of this year, he left the National Council for more than a year. She has taken up a great deal of work as a female spokesperson in spite of her disability. She has lived it, because she has grown up with politics – as a councillor, as vice-bourgeois, as mayor, in the Chamber of Commerce; she has stood for the hostess in apprenticeship training and in many other areas. It has actually devoted its entire life to the Community, to politics. It is for us to say thank you one last time today. It has had a motto: Get up, leave the crown, tear the hair and rock life. She has risen again and again, she has never put on the crown, and until the end she has always freezed her hair in a very special way, but she has also been angry. For 50 years she was allowed to live her life – truly in full breadth and abundance. Dear Barbara, thanks from this place too! I can invite you to the Soul Fair tomorrow at 7.45 a.m. in the Augustinian Church. We will keep her an honorable memory. [[Those present persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take up their seats again.]] [[12:02:40]] Ceremony on the occasion of the attacks in Christchurch and Sri Lanka
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6122	But there is another sad occasion. [[Deputies shall rise from their seats.]] The situation is incomprehensible to us: ==References== On March 1, Christchurch was attacked by a right-wing terrorist. Now, on Easter Sunday, when the Pope donated the blessing urbi et orbi, the victory of peace, further cruel attacks took place. 360 people in Sri Lanka have lost their lives in various places – in churches, in hotels. We remember her. Our participation applies to their relatives, to the survivors, to those who have survived these attacks. We should be aware that the end stage of hatred, from whichever situation it develops, whether in the web, in personal conversation, actually always is achieved if there is terror when there is war. It is more than ever the responsibility of a Parliament to always be aware of this and to choose the words, the formulations always in such a way that respect for the others, before the dissidents, is expressed in a very special way to the disbelief. Today we remember in the silence of the victims, want to be in mind with the survivors and thus also express that all of Austria joins them. [[Those present persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6170	The official protocols of 66. Meeting of 27 and 28. March 2019 as well as 67th, 68th and 69th. Meeting of 28. On 3 March 2019, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board. The representatives of Johann Höfinger, Rebecca Kirchbaumer, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Dietmar Keck, Mag are reported as prevented today. Verena Nussbaum, Rainer Wimmer, Mag. Roman Haider, Hans-Jörg Jenewein, MA, Mag. Gerhard Kaniak, Christian Ries, Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MESund Dipl.-Ing. Martha Bißmann. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6229	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the representation of members of the Federal Government has announced that German Chancellors will be represented in short due to a stay abroad by the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Public Service and Sport Heinz-Christian Strache. I can announce that today's meeting will be held between 2 p.m. and 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. The meeting will then be broadcast online for the first time in the course of a pilot project. We have already communicated this to the parties and to the clubs in the President. Today, in turn, a photographer will photograph for documentation purposes on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate. [[12:06:07]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6267	We'll get to the current one immediately. Hours on the subject: ‘This government has no idea of the Internet’ First of all, Mrs Gamon is speaking. I can give her the word. – You know that you have 10 minutes of speech to justify your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6295	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. We are NEOS Today to ring the alarm bells. The issue is nothing less than individual rights of freedom. Today, the freedom of citizens on the network is more in distress than ever before, and that worldwide: In China and Russia – there are, of course, many other examples – one can see how modern technological developments are misused in order to build a censorship infrastructure, a surveillance state, and in this case, for many in modern dictatorships, the last bastion of freedom, the Internet, is finally abolished. Let's not think about it. This model of a digital-authoritarian state has this stuff to become an export hit. And what does our government do about network policy? – It ranks in the club of those states that want to restrict freedom on the Internet more and more instead of making and creating sensible rules. Of course, these are also necessary. There is an essential regulatory need, particularly in matters of digitisation, in matters of network policy. All the more important it is to work with thought and find good solutions. On the solutions of this government, there are only two explanations for me, namely that ÖVP and FPÖ want to restrict liberties, because it fits in with their authoritarian narrative or – second variant; I do not know if I should find them better or worse – because they have no idea how the Internet really works and bring corresponding solutions to the table. They do not understand that the network is an essential part of our lives and that it also means that any restriction of freedom there is also an essential, profound restriction of individual freedom of each and every one. Nevertheless, ÖVP and FPÖ rely on censorship, surveillance and freedom restrictions, and these are very old answers for very new problems. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The whole can also be seen in three current examples: on the upload filter, on this absurd ID force in the network and on the further expansion of the surveillance state, for which there are some examples. But if we start with the upload filters, there is a lot of explanation: Yes, we have to get copyright into the 21st century. ==References== There is no question that this is particularly important in the digital age that intellectual property is best protected. In the end, however, the European People's Party has opted for a solution which is perhaps the easiest at first glance, but which is also dangerous. It's censorship by upload filter. They work in this way: You want to catch YouTube and Facebook, take a shotgun, aim at the two, and shoot half the Internet. By the way, YouTube and Facebook are probably laughing at death, because they are completely wreaked about whether there are mandatory upload filters now. They have no problem at all with that. That doesn't damage your business model at all. Collateral damage is caused here by freedom of expression in the network, creativity and diversity on the Internet and also by competition and innovation. Why? – Because upload filters are expensive, that is, they are a disadvantage for the little ones in a already very tough competition. They are faulty, which means that legal content is probably also blocked, and they create a censorship infrastructure, which can sometimes be used to prevent unloving articles, images and other content from being found on the Internet. I give you an example, so that everyone really understands this: If you do not like in the future that an unloving demo online an even larger empire- finding wide, because it is transmitted through a live stream, then simply put yourself in front of the picture with a fat speaker and play music that is protected by copyright. – Zack is the video away, the content you don’t want on the web is gone, the freedom of expression is gone. So it's dangerous to have no idea how the Internet works. Next topic: this absurd pressure on the web, where I really find hardly words about how – I don't think of a nice word – that's absurd. The government wants everyone who participates in the discourse on the Internet to identify and leave their data on a platform such as the online “standard”. It's like entering a supermarket at the beginning you have to quickly place your address and ID in case you might let something go with you. This is, of course, a totally false idea in the real world – why do we do it online? It is also absurd that the Minister of the Media treats any legitimate criticism as stupid, cannot answer countless open questions – perhaps he has some answers for us today – and, instead, anything about a South Korean software that should somehow solve the whole. Let us look at South Korea, if you already take this as an example! In fact, a similar law has not at all led to fewer hate postings on the network, but the unsafely stored data of millions of users could be stolen by external attackers. It appears that a massive data storage offensive is launched through the detour of a PR action that is supposed to help against hate postings. This initiative is absolutely useless in the fight against hatred on the net. That's what all experts in this field say, that's proven by studies. At the time of hatred, please finally start with yourself, because the current debate about this inconvenient pamphlet from Braunau – not only that it was not online, it was print, it was also equipped with a sender – has shown, not even when its own name is written on it, this helps to combat hatred in this society. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] You owe us real answers. What does the government do against the hatred that is fomented in society? What do you do about the next individual case standing at the door again? The hatred in society must finally be fought, but not with PR actions that restrict freedom on the Internet. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This measure leads to a further restriction of freedom of expression and civil rights, because there are also people who need anonymity on the network for professional, political reasons, and they must fear that they will become relatively easy to pursue in the future. Of the other security aspects, that now inconceivable data convoluted will be stored and you actually don't know how all this should happen, we don't talk yet. This is the next problem you will address with this topic: Are these data of users then even safe? However, I believe that we can now start a debate of our own. Let's talk about the government's not about the fight against hatred on the net! It's about building up her surveillance state. At European level and also by this government, data storage will continue to progress. The Federal Trojan comes in the monitoring package, a car identification mark, and now the Minister of the Interior has also spoken about the use of a facial recognition software without saying what or how, but that is normal in of government communications. China and George Orwell say hello, that's totally crazy! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Light peace.]] What the Federal Government is planning is a new digital dimension in an all-encompassing surveillance state. The privacy of citizens will soon have an end to it. ÖVP and FPÖ have a frontal attack against the liberal rule of law and on our rights of freedom, in this case apparently without any legal basis. This is beyond and unconstitutional, and we will not let that happen. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is why I think it is very bad – in that case also as a digitising speaker of my parliamentary group – because this is also a matter of urgent need for action, namely to see digitisation as an opportunity, to see Europe as the place where we are proactively focusing on regulation, to promote innovation, to make Europe the place where a liberal way of living can be created and further propagated, instead of taking on the proposals of the rest of the world, such as from China or Russia. Instead of seeing this challenge of digitization as an opportunity, rely on freedom restrictions, surveillance and censorship. Yesterday, we have been able to experience it live on television, as is the case with criticism – of course, the freedom of the press goes down when answering critical questions from journalists with threats. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] It is not only in danger of freedom on the Internet, but also freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Instead of making Europe a place of freedom and fundamental rights, ÖVP and FPÖ prefer to restrict both. In a dangerous way, there is an alarming understanding of democracy. Now again, I'm sure that after me some speakers will come who say: You got it all wrong, it's not meant at all, it's all quite different!, but I'm telling you now: Citizens are not stupid. We will not let that happen, because if democracy disappears slowly and quietly and with its freedom of expression and freedom of the press, then of course it always happens quietly and in small steps – so is the way into the surveillance state. However, we NEOS will say clearly: We're setting up a stop sign here. I'm sure not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6428	I can welcome the student group of the HBLA Bruck an der Mur quite cordially to the Hohen Haus. [[General condolences.]] Federal Minister Mag is reported to speak. Blossoms, which I warmly welcome in the House. - You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6458	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear visitors to the gallery, welcome! I think it's an extremely exciting topic for younger people, especially when it comes to digital space, about the Internet. Maybe a few words to help you find out: I have written in the speech of Mr Gamon and have taken out a few quotes which, I believe, need to be better illuminated. First of all, at the very beginning of freedom rights on the Internet, which are now to be circumcised in some way – it has not been said exactly how this should happen. What's that about? What is freedom? Individual freedom is supposed to be cut. Apparently NEOS freedom is defined in such a way that you can do and leave everything you want. This is not just the definition of freedom that exists in a liberal rule of law, because precisely for that there are rights, namely to guarantee that the freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] Total freedom, as it has just been proclaimed, is anarchy. We have seen this in different areas of history. It could be said that in the Wild West, when it was not yet opened up, total freedom existed, where one could have done what one wanted, the Desperados, the lawless, had robbed, plundered, did what they wanted. It wasn't a sheriff there who locked her up who was persecuting her. That was total freedom, too. – This will not be the freedom we want in a liberal rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is perhaps also a good example to begin with, because the digital revolution in which we are located is such a revolution, which in many areas also reminds us of what earlier industrial revolutions have brought with it. I can remind you that with technological further development it has always been in the history of humanity that it has offered great opportunities, but it has also been associated with risks that have changed society, and it has always been so that people have had to think about the form in which they deal with this technological development. How do you want to domesticate them, make them usable, so that at the end of the day they develop their positive pages for everyone – and not just for a few, for the strongest if you want to? The Industrial Revolution in the 19th century. The history books of the century, which we all know, have undoubtedly led to much more prosperity in our society in the long term. Today we all benefit from the achievements of technical progress, mass production et cetera, but we also know what at the beginning were the social effects: There has been mass impoverishment, many people have worked more than they could, and had less of it than they needed. And those who took advantage of this have gone around with similar arguments as you just said: We must not restrict the freedom of the entrepreneur. This is my freedom, ownership of production factors, and if so much work is there, it will cost less. To limit this is a cut in entrepreneurial freedom, so we must not do that in the sense of liberal fundamentalism. Fortunately, today we know that these social problems, which existed at the time, had to be dominated by social legislation, by social security, by health systems, by working time regulations, so that we can all live today in a society where we have a 38-hour week in which we have well-developed health systems. [[Call the SPÖ:60!]] We have developed a certain wealth, living in a social state that also deserves this word, in which the weakest of society also get help. All this has only to be achieved by restricting this absolute entrepreneurial freedom, as it did then. In a very, very similar situation, we are today with the digital revolution. Digital technological development offers inconceivable possibilities. It will change our society even more than it has already done. It will solve many problems that we have today or which we do not yet know that we may have them; but it is important that digitisation should not change our basic principles, but that our basic principles must change and shape digitalisation – because only when we design this digitization will it also benefit all people. This is precisely what this law is all about, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A few examples of what I mean by these laws: For example, it is simply unfair if the small, medium-sized company in Austria, the Greißler around the corner pays more taxes than a huge company – Google, YouTube, Facebook et cetera, which in Austria earns millions, but here does not have to pay taxes. It just can't be. That is why it is good and important that we have also introduced the digital corporate tax in this coalition with the Minister of Finance, so that these global giants here in Austria contribute to the social state – and that is what you call restriction of freedom! [[Abg. Gamon:... Advertising...!]] I say: That's just fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] They talked a lot about upload filters and censorship. That's very, very exciting. Maybe to explain to everyone: This is about the famous Copyright Directive. That is to say, the directive on the protection of benefits, which has now been adopted in the European Parliament. First of all: Upload filters do not appear in the form of this entire directive. This word is not in there. What's this about? – It’s simply and touching that intellectual property in digital space is also a valuable asset and large platforms, which aber millions and billions earn with the property of third parties, who, of course, also have to give up something to control, who belongs to what I use here, with whom I attract many people with whom I make billions – and when this person is there and says: That belongs to me, then I have to give this person something. That's just fair. It's not censorship, it's property protection. This is the opposite of theft, which is currently going and giving in the digital space. That's what we want to prevent. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] If you describe the protection of property rights as censorship in the digital space, it is about as if – I know, comparisons with the analog world always have the potential that they are limping and sometimes possibly also stupid – I take away your mobile phone and then sell it and plug in the money and then you say: [[Keeping his smartphone in height]] I can't, that's my property, and I'll say, Hey, this is censorship what you're doing! - That's absurd. The same is true of intellectual property: When I produce a movie, write a song, make a video, it's mine, that's my intellectual property. If that's what anyone is up to on Facebook, YouTube et cetera, and they do a lot of money with it, even because they're playing for the people, marketing the data and then making money and giving me nothing, then that's not censorship, then it's simple and gripping theft. [[Abg. Gamon: You're talking about something else!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] On the other hand, we must resist, and therefore I am very, very glad that the Performance Protection Directive has been implemented at European level. We now have the opportunity to break it down into Austrian law in fine-tuning. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the freedom of expression: Please, I don't understand how you can even get the idea that there is a restriction of freedom of expression in this area, in which Copyright Directive. [[Abg. Scherak: That's the problem that you don't check it!]] It's just and touching when someone hears something that you can't just use it for something else without asking the person. If you constantly upload content that you do not belong to somewhere and say: Hey, now I may not be allowed to do that anymore, but I would have liked to upload it, so my freedom of expression is cut!, then the simple and gripping theft is what you used to do. I can't do that. That was illegal at the time. There were only no ways of helping the right to break through. [[Abg. Sherak: That's not true either! Unbelievable!]] Why? – Because the basis for the right to regulate these platforms, such as YouTube, Facebook and Google et cetera, is from 2001. There was no Facebook yet in 2001, there were no smartphones yet, and that is still the legal basis for how these platforms operate. They say they're neutral. They say they have nothing to do with what is happening on their platform, because it is only the users who upload the content. - That's not true. Why is that wrong? – Because these platforms of course play content, track your search behavior, then check out what interests you and are specifically played to you according to their algorithms the content that fits your search behavior, so that they sell good advertising so that they earn billions – and everything without the owners having any of it. This is theft, it's not fair and it's changed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For the digital disguise ban: This too is an aspect that will simply and decisively lead to more enforcement of the right in the digital area. Nothing else we're doing here. It simply can't be that it's illegal and forbidden when you're injuring people when you're slandering, when you're insulting, but it's not acceptable that it's not possible to track these crimes, if they're committed, even in the digital space. It can't be that the victims in the digital space will never get to their right structurally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gamon.]] It is precisely for this reason that the digital disguise ban is needed, and for this very reason we have also sent this law on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6618	I should also like to draw attention to the fact that our electronic recording of speakers is not yet working and that there is therefore only the list of speakers who are registered here. The next speaker is Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6642	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here again and again, we are talking about the issue of digitalization, especially the opportunities that the Internet, digitalization as a whole can bring us, and how we as politicians can take meaningful measures in the fields of work, business, education, so that many people can also benefit from it. We are equally aware, however, that the Internet, which presents digitalisation as a whole, presents challenges that we must face. Especially the issue of security has dealt with us as a policy in recent years when it comes to the Internet and digitization. It's changed a lot. New forms of crime have arisen, and new technological possibilities have emerged. wrapped. Of course, it is also our task as a policy to make adjustments to ensure security and enforcement by our authorities. Austrian law now applies not only in the analogue world, but also in the digital world. However, we see that law enforcement in the digital world is far more difficult, we take the criticised novels of copyright at European level as an example. I am pleased that the direction of impact, the intention behind it, is also divided in a broad context. The intention is to protect intellectual property also on the Internet. That means protecting what Content Creator creates daily with her experience, with her time and also with her own money, whether it be the performance as an author, as a musician, as a filmmaker, as a photographer. Also included are all YouTubeers, Vlogger et cetera. Whether it's uploading this content, uploading this content itself, or uploading it by third parties – it's about strengthening its rights and shifting the power relationship to the authors and authors, because Google, Facebook, Twitter and Co are making money as it has already been implemented. The reform means nothing more than that platform operators are more obliged to contribute to the protection of intellectual property or to pay the owners accordingly. It also says that this obligation of platform operators cannot be used on the users and that they may be punished for placing a video of their child online from a concert or for storing the holiday video with music. It will not be required more or less than what is already in place today, and it will continue to be allowed in the future all that is already permitted. This is particularly true in the case of memes, parodies, satire, which is also explicitly set out in the Directive. As far as the measures to ensure protection are concerned, I am with you. There is still a need for clarification, because it cannot be that a small European platform with the big players is thrown into a pot. Upload filters are not specified. The reality is that the big ones already use it, but it is also stated in the directive that proportionality applies. In other words, it is already being taken into account how big the platform is, what content it has, how much content it has, how much content it has, and then it can also take different measures. It will be primarily up to us as a national Parliament. The directive is a framework and we will also fill this framework; I can only invite you to do so. Let me also briefly come to the digital disguise ban! I initially had a very critical opinion on this, but it is also clear that if someone spreads in contributions, in comments, in forums hate, hates, calls for violence, slanders someone, then that can't be unpunished. It would not be allowed in the analogue world either, but we simply hit our borders on the Internet. We have no contact at the large platforms. We don't get any information, and that's what the prosecutors call us back. No conclusion can be made about the person. The statement that most post under their clear names anyway is not entirely correct. There is enough that are anonymous on the road, or you can't find out if the given name is the actual name. The claim that there is the IP address with which you can find out is also incorrect. If you look technically at those who log in via Wi-Fi in the coffee shop, in the office, in the municipality et cetera, then all those who log in use one and same IP address. The telecommunications operators also have, because there is a lack of IP addresses, only the possibility to use IP addresses multiple times. There can therefore not be clearly assigned there.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6691	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6706	We're in a big discussion process until 23. May runs the assessment period of the law. I can only invite everyone to join us so that we can still look at this together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6733	Mr Arbitrator has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6755	Mr President. Federal Minister! The whole debate on digitalisation and the Internet and how we can maintain freedom and freedom of expression there is gaining momentum with every additional technological development. What we are saying is that the Internet has not only brought infinite freedom but also pressured freedom of expression in areas where it is misused. In copyright, it is such a question of degree: How much can one put into the net content that one has not created itself? What about the legitimate desire of those who created content, the artist, for a fair reward? The question is right, the question must also be answered: Just as she has been answered, she is not well answered, ladies and gentlemen, because even though the Minister apparently entered only the Google search function upload filters, it must be said that the implementation of upload filters by this EU directive and by the consent of the Austrian Federal Government is not a good answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS]] It does not solve the problems of artists, nor does it answer the much larger problem of hatred on the web, ladies and gentlemen. Nor does it answer the great problem that democracy is under pressure in the meantime – if only we are thinking of the Trollarmen, which are used by the Russian side, often by the far right parties in the European Parliaments, but which have also played a role in the American elections. We also have the big problem that big data can provide immense insights in research when they get into wrong hands, but they are a dangerous weapon – and they are a dangerous weapon when they get into the hands of governments that are not democracies and who have no democratic intentions. Let's just look at Fernost, what's going on there with big data! In my opinion, this is far from human rights and freedom. The last point in this context is the right to control. The Minister tried to describe it. He also tried to persuade us that the government had given an answer. It's just wrong, because of course: What these large digital companies need to do, through all tax loopholes and not pay their fair tax contributions in any country, is to create a digital establishment that we need to create a basis for taxation that these companies can finally be taxed fairly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] But what did the government do? – It has extended the advertising charge to electronic advertising, with a revenue of EUR 15 million. In Austria, more money is taken by the dog tax than by your digital tax. Mr. Minister, do you seriously believe that Google is trembling now because you have invented a digital dog tax? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] It really is a step too far that you still agree that this is a reasonable thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we need instead is, at European level, at last the abolition of unanimity on tax issues. It is on the digital question, it is on the question of why Starbucks does not pay fair taxes, it is so with all these questions that a Finance Minister is always blocked and therefore nothing goes on – and sometimes the Austrian too. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mr Gamon of the NEOS introduced this present hour entitled “This government has no idea [...]”. I think you could have finished this title here already, then he would have included all that is true and right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They say: ‘This government has no idea of the Internet’. Mr Gamon has also given a good reason, but I think it was better to have Mr Blümel. He just proved that you really have no idea.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6839	Mr Lugar is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6871	Mr President. High house! Yes, you have to look at this: The SPÖ has now gone out and said: Yes, the Internet is regulated, there's a lot in the arrogance. - That's good, you said so. The government is doing something, and your only argument was: Yes, it belongs to something done, but not so! Now, of course, it would have been good to say how you would have liked it. Let us look at the NEOS that claim that the government has no idea of the Internet! – Only: Your example reveals that you really have no idea. For example, if someone appears at an event – for example, you, you are in the European election campaign – and a piece of music is played in the background: then such an upload filter – if he were even thinking about what is not the case at all, as we have heard – would simply realize that this piece of music is not in the foreground. It's easy to program. I spoke to an expert; he said that this was not a problem at all, and that would of course go online without any problems. [[Call:What expert]] But what does not go online is a piece of music that is intended for personal use and is marked as such that you want to buy and then place yourself online in order to make it accessible to others. This is already illegal and would no longer go – but it seems to you that you are covering and supporting illegal activities here. This is not the freedom of the network. [[Abg. Greiner: Please?- Oh, my God!]] This is also the reason why many criminals – more and more in recent years – are withdrawing into the network, for there are areas that are right-free space on the network, and that cannot be. It can't be that we're going to open up a right-hand room where criminals will be killed and we won't have any hands at all. They have provided a second example of the Internet disguise ban. If I'm driving my car over the belt, there's no "Robert Lugar" on my car in the back, it's a license number on it, and this license number is not assigned to me as a driver until I'm driving too fast, because then the authority enters and looks who owns this license number. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But would there be an idea!]] That's how we do it on the Internet. That is, if someone – like Sigi Maurer for example – complains that she is being sent to the often grafted penis, that is, as a picture, you can then know in the future who has done this and put it off. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] Or do you want that? Do you want illegal machinations to be further possible under the cover of anonymity? I think that is what you want, because we are on the third point: The third point would be facial recognition. Now you're afraid that will lead to a surveillance state. If there's a police officer standing at a corner perceiving a suspect who's on a list of warrants who may have raped a woman, and this suspect because he's been persecuting him, that's a good thing. - I think you're right. If the same thing happens to a camera and someone sits behind this camera on the screen, sees it and then calls a colleague who arrests the suspect, that's also a good thing, isn't it? If the same thing is doing a software that recognizes a suspect, a police officer will see if it's really a suspect who sends a colleague and leads it back to a arrest, it's also a good thing. That means that this facial recognition software does nothing but extend the police's arm. You don't have to set up a police officer at every corner, but You have the opportunity to get suspects out of traffic in good time. Now let me tell you one thing, Mrs Gamon: If this facial recognition software arrests a rapist a week earlier and possibly saves a woman a rape from this man, then it's a good thing. How can you be against that? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is to say, the reason why you are opposed to it is not that you do not like it – that everyone who is half-intellectual – the reason why you stand out here and make everything bad is simply because you act relatively hopelessly and unsuspectingly in the opposition. [[Abg. Gamon: How often...?]] It's much worse at the SPÖ. The SPÖ has recognized that this state does not need SPÖ. Unfortunately, the SPÖ had to recognize this, because one believed, at the latest one year after the formation of the government, that is, after the start of the black and blue coalition, the Austrians would see that it did not work, and it would have to go back to the government. I can still remember your statements that you have to go back to the government immediately, and now you notice that Austria does not need the SPÖ, and therefore you act so hopelessly and so unsuspectingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6957	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e6973	That's the problem, and that's why: If there is criticism, then get out of it – but please, Mrs. Gamon, not if there is no criticism. [[Abg. Lightenness: For the Robert-Lugar name tag we were eh!]] Please do what your predecessor has done, i.e. to praise if applause is necessary, and to agree if consent is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7012	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7044	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, you must be congratulated first and foremost. We called here a current hour on the topic “This government has no idea of the Internet”, and you prove in a brilliant speech that we were right to a hundred percent: You just don't have a pale shimmer how the Internet works. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So you come and tell us some Western fairy tale or the summary of “Django Unchained”, which you probably looked at with Reinhold Mitterlehner in the cinema at the time, tell us something from the Wild West, and then it’s even better: Afterwards, you say literally, you don't know how the upload filter can limit freedom of expression. Congratulations on this great evidence! You simply don't have a pale shimmer, how the upload filter works, and you have no idea how the Internet works. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To your certificate obligation on the Internet: It is somewhat bizarre to read this bill. You have to admit, you didn't say it today, but in the explanations on your digital ID, it's literally: ‘The Internet may not be a legal space.’ You want a digital disguise ban, have taken a little bit of bond from Herbert Kickl. Do you know what you want? – First, you want every user, when they create an account, to prove his identity that he has to give his first name, his last name, his address. Mrs Gamon has already mentioned this: That's how when I go into a local or a supermarket, first report to me there and have to say: Hi, it's me, Niki Scherak, I'm giving you my ID now, because it could be that I don't pay for my beer afterwards or let something go along in the supermarket! They then sit in the “ZIB 2” and say to journalist Martin Thür: That's perfect nonsense. You simply don't have a pale shimmer, what you're planning here, and then write in the explanations: ‘The Internet may not be a legal space.’ Mr Federal Minister, I recommend you to: Introduction lecture Jus. [[Congratulations on the NEOS and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] It is neither the Internet a right-wing space nor the analog world. You just don't have a pale shimmer. The Internet is not a legal space, it is a criminal law, it is civil law, and you also know – that is the only one in which we agree – that we must ensure that law enforcement works better. But what you do has nothing to do with it. By the way, if you are talking about the digital tax, which is already very funny – except that it is nothing but an advertising charge –: That's in turn. The best example is that you have no idea of the Internet, because when you first proposed it, you had planned a storage period of seven years at IP addresses, not anonymized. Unlike you, Finance Minister Löger has at least employees who listen if Max Schrems clearly says that this would, of course, be fundamental, at least he wants to take that out. In this respect, obviously one – the Finance Minister or his staff – is a little bit concerned with this. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] Why is the obligation to issue certificates restricting freedom? – Mr Federal Minister, if you need to register with a forum operator in the future, have to deposit your name, according to your data, then of course limit the discourse in many areas, you limit the discourse on platforms where people rate their employers, you limit the discourse in forums where people discuss highly sensitive issues such as sexual harassment. That is the essential point, how freedom of expression is restricted, that you take steps in advance that lead to people not trusting, and that, you should know, is what you are doing, nothing but a storage of data. In the future, Forum operators will have to store all possible data with caution – and the precautionary storage of data without any reason has rightly been abolished by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice as illegal. That's what you're planning here, and that's nothing but illegal. What is particularly scurry: They are sitting in the “ZIB 2” and talk about South Korea, with South Korea in particular abolishing this regulation because this inconceivable data pool has become the target of hacker attacks. So you're also going to commit forum operators to store data, and say: Dear hacker, look at this! Here is all the data, you are cordially invited to provide you with appropriate access! That's the problem you're causing. But what you're not doing – and that's really bad – is: You don't care about everything that is really necessary. What do we need? – We need effective requests regarding the data release. If you look at the statistics, you will find that 36 percent of the requests from Austrian authorities will be issued the data. In comparison, the data from Facebook is published in the UK at 91 percent, in Sweden at 90 percent, even Germany is 59 percent. Austria: 36 percent! That is, we need an effective investigative authority capable of making inquiries in such a way that it receives the data. That is what is necessary, and not what you propose here. Then you are still talking about the case of Maurer – Mr Lugar has just mentioned it. In the case of Maurer, we knew who actually sent this message. And do you know what was missing? – The corresponding criminal offence, namely the criminal offence of ‘psychic violence’ or ‘verbal sexual harassment’. There is a request from the opposition parties; ÖVP and FPÖ are those who constantly postpone the issue in the Committee. There's nothing going on. That would have to be done, and so you could effectively fight hatred on the net.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7135	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7150	Mr President. I come to the conclusion: They would also have to remove the police and the prosecutor's office. to provide the necessary information. They know that the Special Investigation Group has four prosecutors in Vienna against hatred on the network at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Federal Minister Brandstetter has already suggested that five are coming there in addition, but that has not yet happened. You don't care, you play on the phone and still have no idea what's happening on the Internet and how it works. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who looks at his smartphone]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7189	Mrs Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Blümel! Hello to the guests! Mr Minister, you have been using the metaphors of the Wild West for a long time today. The question, however, I ask myself: If you are already dealing with the digital Wild West, is your goal really to make the seemingly digital Wild West a digital eastern block? Let's take a look at the Wild West you've been talking about: This Wild West, which is 4.4 billion people who are online worldwide. This is about the fact that 3.1 billion people live on social networks and 1.9 billion websites are online. That means, that's not just a small place, it's not just a small group – it's a place that, for example, 13-year-old Alexander, who's here today, is also considered his second home. This is a place where young people stay and feel at home, which on the one hand provides them with knowledge, education and inspiration, on the other hand friendships and acquaintances. Of course, hatred occurs in such a place. You can't talk about this, here there are situations that need to be prevented. Nevertheless, let us look at what is the basic idea of the so-called WWW! The words of the founder Berners-Lee are: The web has been designed for bringing people together and making knowledge freely available. – bringing people together and making knowledge freely available, is that the Wild West? Everyone and everyone has the responsibility of serving the web of humanity, which is also the words of the founder. That is, everyone and everyone here bears the responsibility. This means to me that every day I and every individual must be careful to help the Internet remain a place where people can self-determine and freely obtain information and network and develop new things. We have already discussed the topic of upload filters quite in detail – yes, it is when it is implemented in the form, to censorship, and it is no longer possible to develop new things in the form. I am convinced that we have a responsibility here in the House – not only you in the government, but also we in the opposition, all of us here in the High House, Google, Facebook and the people themselves. But what does the government do? – If you look at the warrant, this law is a frontal attack on the internet. Instead of fighting hatred on the network, the communities in Austria are under fire, where a democratic discourse is most likely to take place. The government has not been in a position to promote honest approaches such as deradizing and offering advice to victims or to propose less policy measures against minorities. Nothing happened. This law misses its actual goal and brings enormous collateral damage to our democratic discourse, and we will do everything we can to prevent that. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] All these regulations, most of which come from your side, primarily do not serve humans, do not serve humanity. These regulations, valuable government, serve on the one hand less individuals and on the other hand less individuals in the building of power. These regulations cast the entire web, all its users and producers into a pot. We're talking about millions of billions of people here. In doing so, the person for whom the web was designed loses the opportunity to inform and network freely. – Yes, we are probably of the same opinion, Mr. Sheriff Blümel: It always needs new standards to regulate the interaction on the web. We need modern copyright, but we can also do this by developing solutions without forgetting the human factor – of course, only if it is not our exclusive intention to make more money or to strengthen our position of power. We will only succeed in making the web a place that serves the people – quite after the inventor of the WWW – when we first ask ourselves what they are doing with the people out there with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7258	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7274	That's a question you can ask yourself, dear government, just as well as I and everyone else here in the hall.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7301	Mrs Niss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7322	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Today in Parliament, we are once again experiencing outrageary policy par excellence: “The government has no idea of the Internet”, the end of the free internet is at the door, yes, we forbid the Internet! – Yes, I know that this issue is emotionalised, but that is why, honestly, I would like to make a little more objective contributions from the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear NEOS! The title “The government has no idea of the Internet” is, honestly, under every criticism and is only topped by parliamentarian, who says: [[Call the SPÖ:Very true!]] The government has no idea. – But that’s true, I think, of itself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Before: In the digital world, the same basic principles, rules and laws must apply as in the analogue world. The government is acting in accordance with this principle; I think we are right in doing so, and we are likely to be in favour of the opposition. The digital age has brought upheavals, even in earlier economic revolutions. The railway was called a devil's thing, the first cars were even deliberately involved in accidents to defame them. But we should not let that happen. The aim of our government is clear: We need to ensure legal certainty, and digital corporations, as well as all other companies, must have the rights to the data they offer. We are already on the first point, the recently adopted EU copyright reform. Here came the claim that one would specifically try to censor. The fact is: What has so far been permitted by copyright is now also permitted by copyright. However, it is also true: What has not yet been permitted by copyright, it is not now. I think that is just a consistent continuation of the protection of property. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] The directive has not created censorship, but it has managed to promote the conclusion of contracts between rights holders and platforms in order to avoid illegal uploads, such as they used to be. You can imagine this: For example, if the ORF presents a link, it also charges the AKM a licence fee for the artist. The step you are now taking is an implementation into the digital world: Artists are rewarded for their intellectual property or this is protected. But the issue of proportionality is important, so I do not want to mention it: We need to protect our small companies, which are partially unable to implement technical measures. Therefore, not only exceptions have been created for small businesses with a turnover of less than EUR 10 million and younger than three years, but it has also been established that the question of what technical measures need to be implemented is based on the size of the company. We will also, as national legislators, be called upon to take care and care to implement this proportionality in order not to disadvantage our companies against competition. Another area where laws and measures can be implemented from the analogue field in the digital world is the issue of hate and hatred on the Internet. To hide behind the anonymity of the Internet in hate postings, but especially in criminal acts, is absolutely contrary to all the values of our society. Hatred in the net is not a cavalier crime, and therefore it is necessary to make a change and restore the rule of law. In the future, forum operators will need to identify and verify the identity of posters. Mr. Scherak, you meant that services or discourses could be prevented in the future: The data must only be passed on if a reasoned accusation of a criminal act is proved, and the forum operators will be careful to pass on data unlawfully. [[Abg. Scherak: But that's not the point!]] However, I am convinced that we can prevent the last point with a targeted media competence. A targeted, learned approach to digitization, the Internet and the digital media must be given from a small point of view. This is not only necessary to have the experts we need in the future, but also to equip our little ones with certain digital skills, because only then will we manage to turn them into powerful citizens and prepare them for the digital age. I also give the NEOS right if they say that tablets in school classes alone would not lead to success. We need a system that – in addition to the infrastructure – the teaching content of the 21st century. ==References== Our information society is increasingly demanding less knowledge of facts, but more competence. We will also implement this in the Master Plan digitization. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that the title of today's hour can only be understood as an incentive for the critics to study more closely the important measures that the government is taking in the field of digitization. I assure you that we are working on a solid, effective state that will capture the changes of the digital age and lead our country forward into a good future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7389	Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7411	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Minister! [[Abg. Höbart: (on the great white plug of the speaker with the inscription “Women’s People’s Desire”, on which the logo of women’s people’s desire is illustrated, is that a watch on it, on the sticker?]] With the digital identification requirement and with the obligation of identification, it is not much different from the advertising charge called a digital tax: It is a classic example of show policy. Instead of developing actual solutions for hatred and hetze in the web, the PR machine is attacked. One sends a law into consideration, which not only completely passes the goal, but does not even take the real goal into view. The obligation to show on the Internet may be much – a barrier to the free discourse on the web, an attack on digital democracy or an intervention into the fundamental right to data protection – it is certainly not a recipe against hate comments. I have rarely seen a legislative proposal, which is so little thought out as this, at every level: legal, technical, but also content. Throughout Austria, it is therefore also a follow-up criticism of experts. It is warned that the obligation to identify could violate EU law and our fundamental rights and that the technical implementation is certainly not “lightly feasible” – as you said, Mr. Federal Minister. Either way? The technical possibilities for verifying the address via the telephone number, for example, are not even available. What is punishable in the analogue world must also be banned in digital space. - Right, that's to be agreed. But fact is also – and Niki Scherak has already mentioned it – that criminal law is also applicable on the Internet, and that for a long time. One can already report relevant comments or statements on the Internet to the Public Prosecutor's Office and enable the Public Prosecutor's Office. The prosecutor can already ask IP addresses, including the exact time when the IP address was used, for the providers. Why isn't that happening? – This is not because the Federal Government is starving the Austrian judicial system in terms of both human and financial terms. In 2017, I negotiated with Federal Minister Brandstetter that there should be five additional prosecutors and prosecutors who should focus on the issue of hate on the web. I'm seriously asking: Why isn't there any of these to this day? [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] Instead of putting it into practice and creating your own posts in the public prosecutor's office for the fight against hatred and crime on the web, the government is offering one of the most important personal rights and also calling into question freedom of expression. We know very well that in the case of hate and hetze in the net, anonymity is not the decisive criterion, because already most of the hate postings are published under clear names. The case of Sigi Maurer, quoted in a succinct manner today, is the best known and best proof of this. I therefore ask: What's this bill supposed to bring? What should be the requirement for identification against digital hetze under clear names? The answer is: nothing. The government boasts that no other country has yet introduced a similar law – not a European one, well-noticed. True, the government has taken an example of China, which is on its way to the most totalitarian surveillance state of modern times, and South Korea, where government policy has led to massive hacker attacks. Furthermore, in both countries, hate on the network has not even fallen by one percentage point, according to studies. Who is the greatest profiter and multiplier of hatred on the net, Mr. Federal Minister? Who will fill the newspapers and media with scandalous postings in the day-to-day, with forget of history and with digital legal worship? - Right, your coalition partner, the FPÖ. [[Abg. Gudenus: Silver Stone! Tell the friend of silver! That's right!]] Who has a close relationship with pages such as uncensored.at or “week vision ”? – Right, the FPÖ, she feels rightly addressed. I seriously ask: Are these the start-ups you're talking about? Uncensored.at, “Weekblick ”? [[Abg. Gudenus: Contrast!]] Is this the one that should not be hindered? The SPÖ line is quite clear: We clearly say no to this requirement of identification on the Internet, No to an attack on the privacy of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7485	I can welcome another student group of HBLA Bruck here at the Hohen Haus. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Wassermann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7515	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Austria has developed very positively in recent months and years. We have established ourselves as a country with special quality of life and international appearance, also because the Federal Government has put in place digital measures that are innovative, courageous and progressive. Dear NEOS, while studying your press releases and social media accounts, I noticed that you are developing almost Hellenic skills. They say what is not going to happen and how blatant the future that is ahead of us will be. What I miss, however, is your constructive cooperation and your ideas. Dear Mrs Gamon, the citizens also expect you to bring themselves into the parliamentary process in a solution-oriented way and not to be already in the EU election with one foot. [[Abg. Scherak: Three proposals made! Three proposals!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the one hand, against hatred on the net, but on the other hand, you have social media postings and press releases, which only stumble in the face of critical side lifts with a lot of hidden aggressive potential – or should I say better just that? [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS.]] I would also like to make a point of this: Preaching water and drinking wine – this double-beddedness does not understand any citizen throughout Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For this very reason, there is also this bill by Federal Minister Blümel, which is currently under consideration, and we will deal with it together with our coalition partner. The government has digital skills on the Internet when it comes to strengthening and intervening against hatred on the network. Many of us were already victims of hatred on the net. This concerns all ages and generations, especially the parents who need to protect their children from cybermobbing. The current criminal statistics also show that cybercrime is increasing and that police must also face ever greater challenges in this area. However, the main reason for the uninhibited activity in the net is not only anonymity, but also the rawness of the language. I remember quite well a sage from the left, by a SPÖ mayor in Carinthia, who wished a colleague to die in the Sephen Airlines. She described this and it was puzzling. I have to say one thing: For us, this statement to reject this rabies of language is the sharpest. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Roaring the language!]] [[Abg. Loacker: The group with expertise in the raw language!]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner is not doing so. Another example by the SPÖ Members: There's someone who leaves insults and hate postings on his own Facebook page for days. Mrs Rendi-Wagner is still out of business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] If I look at the staff representative and official of SPÖ in Carinthia, who insulted our Federal Chancellor on the desert, I can only say one again: Mrs Rendi-Wagner is still out of business. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I personally wonder how seriously the SPÖ actually takes its own catalogue of values. [[Don't call the FPÖ:Gar!]] What may be added is that at the moment, in front of the EU election campaign, at SPÖ, at the left side, all inhibitions fall completely anyway. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Silver Stone Commission!]] Unfortunately, hate comments, ladies and gentlemen, are daily on the web. But this has to change – through laws, by breathing all before commenting and by digital civil promotion. The government has competences on the Internet when it comes to facilitating the way of office for citizens. New processes are defined, interfaces created. It is a question of 800,000 Austrians returning to and from their place of residence. It is a question of being able to apply for a European election card, to apply for a municipal residence or to obtain a criminal record certificate, or to register a dog. All of this works digitally, all of which are innovations that make the Federal Government possible. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, the colleague Loacker has signed up in the ministry!]] [[Abg. Loacker: I spent 14 days in the ministry! That's how it works!]] The government has digital skills when it comes to ensuring rapid and secure data transmission as a key location factor for business settlements. I would also like to refer to Carinthia, the 5G-Pioniergemeinschaft Villach, where we invest 1.6 billion euros with strong partners, together with Infineon and the government in the digital field, and create 400 new jobs. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Despite the difficult topographical situation, Austria, together with infrastructure minister Norbert Hofer, is already on track for the introduction of new technologies. I come to the conclusion: We are well aware of the growing responsibility and we also accompany some of these processes scientifically, for example when it comes to the electromagnetic radio spectrum used, our health, our youth and our future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7679	Members of the Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7700	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Minister! High house! Dear visitors to the gallery! Angela Merkel said in 2013: “The Internet is new to all of us.” If you look at the speeches of the last short hour in this way, I think it was quite right, especially as far as the government parties are concerned. I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Wassermann's statement, which has just mentioned this great app Digital Office, which is the age cure for all the problems in this government. [[Abg. Stefan: Who claimed that? That's not right!]] First of all, you can apply for the dial for years online, which is not a new achievement that works in this app. We have already experienced how great this works with the re-entry of the residence. Otherwise, it's a link collection, not anymore. If one sees this as the great achievement of the government in the digital field, then I do not know further. The topic of upload filters was also addressed. I want to make it short: Mrs Niss, you have spoken about the fact that AKM charges must also be paid and so on. From my point of view: How is an upload filter supposed to know if someone paid AKM fees? So this also goes back and front. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Because the time runs out, I do not want to go into the speech of the Minister at all at the beginning. I actually wanted to talk about another subject in this context, which is very essential: This is the subject of media competence. We also see that this is a very important issue in the government – I have picked out Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache – that needs to be addressed more closely. When you look at Minister Strache's Facebook page – many of these things have been deleted since medial was already opened up – you can see that he has come across these classic Fakenevs. We have an article from July 2014, which he posts: ‘USA threatens EU sanctions if EU sanctions against Russia do not worsen’. H.-C. Strache writes: “Who pours oil into the fire here?” – This article was from a German magazine, the “Postillon”, which simply makes satire. Vice-Chancellor Street can't distinguish this. 1. April 2015, Vice-Chancellor Street: ‘Now they are completely turning through’, including a ‘press’ article, which reads: “The panic” – the Vienna Schnitzel in this case – “is threatening an EU ban.” – We all know, of course, that the fun of the Vienna Schnitzel ceases, we already agree, but that Mr. Vice-Chancellor has come up with a very clear April jug shows a little bit that it might be good to question some things before and not simply post them. Also the “General Morgenpost Rundschau” – only the title should give the impression that this may have something to do with Satire, which is read from the title of the magazine – has posted an article in September 2015: ‘USA threatens Iran with retribution if it continues to bombard IS.’ What does Strache write about it? “Questions on questions! Is the IS supported by the US? “ [[Rejoicing with Members of NEOS and SPÖ.]] There, too, you might need to think about what you post and what is going on in the background, and perhaps think a little more about it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: I want your concerns!]] This is how it continues, with Vice-Chancellor Strache, but also with other politicians who do it over and over again. I think it is our responsibility as a politician to take on a pioneering role and to question what we post, because this is dangerous. With the spread of Fakenev's – that's something you can do specifically or not – I don't want to put it here now – a lot goes hand in hand, which, of course, can also have a massive influence on our democracy and can cause it massive damage in the long term. There is a great blog that I can recommend to everyone: Kobuk! This is a media watchblog, which explicitly deals with the subject of Fakenews and how content is mediated. For example, it has been found that the “Kronen Zeitung” 2017 has attributed to foreigners a much higher potential for violence or a potential for displaying criminal behavior than it was in reality. So we see how media distort, and as politics we have a special task. In particular, we need to do much more in schools. We must finally anchor media competence there, so that young people can make a different opinion and then participate differently in the political discourse. To conclude with a nice quote – and perhaps also with a little satire and to think together –: Abraham Lincoln once said: “Don’t believe everything you read on the Internet.” – Perhaps it says much more than many speeches that have been made here so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7768	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7789	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That a comparison tends to be his own, otherwise it would be isomorphia or something else. Of course, comparisons are characteristic. If you, Mr. Minister, rise here as a sheriff, I can only say: I always wanted to be Indians, and there is probably the fundamental difference between us. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The prohibition of mediation is a contradiction to what I would call human rights of anonymity. I'll read you a few words: ‘The service provider shall enable the use of telemedia and its payment to be made anonymously or under pseudonym [...]’. - Where's that? – This is, of course, stated in § 13 para. 6 of the German Telemedia Act. If § 43 ABGB, who has been governing the right of name in Austria for over 100 years, expressly states that each and every one of us has the right to use cover names – expressis verbis verba legalia – then that means that we have the right to remain anonymous in principle, if there is no concrete suspicion of a criminal act. You can turn all this and turn it around, as you want, you can turn the individual paragraphs of this draft for a federal law on care and responsibility in the web and turn to how you want: There's actually a paradigm break. Mr Minister, you are on the side of those who say: This human right to anonymity should no longer exist. – This is not appropriate to the Internet, and this is not appropriate for our actual legal understanding. Nikolaus Forgó, probably the best expert in national and international Internet law, has rightly spoken of the phrase pig in which he would have liked to say every time the sentence “The Internet may not be a legal space!” would have thrown in 1 euro. In this respect, it is the same thing: The Internet has not been a legal space since the beginning. Not least because I have been making my money for 30 years to complain to those who write about other untrue, hetceric or insulting things, I say: It's just not right! The Internet is probably one of the most regulated areas that we have at all; and the problem is hardly one of anonymity. The well-known case of Sigi Maurer shows this so beautifully that you hardly believe that someone can't understand it. We knew from the very beginning about the identity of the person concerned. But how did he get through with it so far? – By arguing that he, who is identifiable by his account, has been. This problem will not be settled by this law in the future. That which is aimed at is a kind of law of benevolence: Wherever people discuss, even where they want to move – and this is a legitimate concern of many of us – a ticket should now, so to speak, be handed over. That is where – Niki Scherak has pointed out and one cannot deny it – in essence, a storage of data will take place without reason, and in this life – 30 years I may or may not have – will not go through either the ECJ or the VfGH. This is an inadequate storage of data, and in this respect the statements of the courts are so clear that one wonders how the lawyers in your house could keep this secret from you. [[Congratulations with JETZT and Members of the NEOS]] – That’s decided! Another word on the restriction of freedom of expression – because it was said here as if it were not taking place – is: Both European and national courts have recognised the Chilling effect as a serious problem in assessing what is an inadmissible restriction of freedom of expression. It is not only about the situative restriction or prevention of freedom of expression, it is also about certain legislative, judicial or bureaucratic measures that prevent this freedom of expression. I believe that this law does not contribute to solving the problems we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7858	No one has made any mention of this. That concludes the debate. [[13:24:33]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e7880	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8092	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 5 and 8 and 9 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? – If this is not the case, it will take place in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8113	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference to set the day block time as follows: 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’. Therefore, the ÖVP is 120 minutes, the SPÖ and FPÖ are 107 minutes each and NEOS and NOW each 36 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is therefore the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 18 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. I should like to vote on this proposal on speaking time. Whoever agrees, I ask him to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Before we go into the agenda, I can welcome the students of the Austrian high school at the Johannes Kepler University of Linz – these are two groups – quite cordially to us at the Hohe Haus. [[General condolences.]] Let's go into the agenda. [[13:26:01]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Equal Opportunities on popular desire (433 e.g.) “Women’s people’s desires” (513, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8173	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8200	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! As a Member of Parliament, we are normally very pleased when we are allowed to open the agenda and we are calling it the first speaker for such an important item in the agenda. But today my joy is very sad. Our dear colleague Barbara Krenn left us. In fact, she should now be the first speaker to give her opinion on the women's people's desire. Personally, I'm very sad that Barbara died, and we're missing her very much now. It was always very important to strengthen and empower women. She herself was an incredibly strong woman. I believe that as women of the Group of the Austrian People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we can best honor them by trying to continue their course and live on their strength. Thank you. [[I would like to appeal to Mr Oevp, Mr SPÖ and Mr FPÖ as well as to Members of NEOS and Mr JETZT.]] First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and initiators of the women's people's desire, who sit on top of the gallery, and, of course, also the signatorys from all over Austria very much. I would like to thank you for your heart's blood in this popular desire, and for giving us this popular desire an opportunity to discuss in detail what is still needed to give equal treatment to achieve equality between women and girls in Austria. I would also like to thank the inputs we received during our discussions by the various speakers. On the other hand, I would like to oppose the allegations and statements that have been made in recent weeks – and in the last few days – mainly through the press, of course, that, as government parties, we would not be interested in popular desire that we should simply ad Put acta, take note of it, learn nothing from it, do not derive from it. – That’s not true, the opposite is the case. Many of these demands we take very seriously – no, we all take very seriously – and many find ourselves in our government programme. Either they will be implemented or they have already been implemented. A few demands from the women's people's desire, for example the right to part-time work or binding gender sensitivity in education, had already been implemented before our reign. I would now like to take a very brief look at how the issues of women's desire with topics from our government programme overlap. I shall only do so as to make a statement, because my colleagues will then continue to address the various points in their speeches. For example, in popular desire, there is the headline “Remove Differences in Income. ” This heading also exists in a similar form in our government programme. There it is called “like wage for equivalent work – equality between women on the labour market”, and there is a wealth of measures to help eliminate income differences. You see, we're not so far apart. For example, we have already implemented the abolition of discrimination in all collective agreements, or it will be abolished during the last negotiations in spring. There is also another point that in the women’s people’s desire “distribute work. ” With us this is part of the point – now I don't have the leaf in it, that's very embarrassing, I'm really sorry – of the part-time work already mentioned. Part-time work is possible today. Then there is a point in the women’s people’s desire to “fight poverty. ” We have called the “social security for women, even in old age. ” There is also the revision of the Maintenance Advancement Act, as the emergency residences for women who are threatened with violence are included, as an information campaign is included on the part of the Pension Insurance Institute. In addition, we are currently very concerned about the topics of women and care as well as pension division. These are all things that poverty must stop. I have already used up my speaking time, but should make another request. I would just like to say very briefly that there is also the point of “promising free choice” in women’s people’s desire. With us we call it “comparability of family and profession”. The whole thing is the same. Some things have already happened, but we still have a lot to say about the prevention of violence, which is of course also required in popular desire. I can now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This working group already existed, and it has accompanied the implementation of the NAP, the National Action Plan on the Protection of Women from Violence. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[13:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8394	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next word to speak is Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8421	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker shall bear:]] [[as most of the SPÖ delegates]] [[a large white plug with the inscription “Women’s People’s Desire”, on which the logo of women’s people’s desire is depicted.]] It shall be as far as: Today, we are discussing in the House women's people's desire, a popular desire that has supported and signed nearly half a million Austrians – half a million votes for genuine equality in Austria, half a million votes for the real self-determination of women and half a million votes for equal representation of men and women in top positions of politics, as well as the economy. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Today we ask ourselves the question: What does the Black and Blue Federal Government do? How do you deal with these nearly half a million votes cast in Austria? – Well, as with popular desires: You drive over it, you ignore it, and you show disrespect to these nearly half a million people who have supported popular desire. This was quite different during the election campaign for the last National Council election than the FPÖ, but also the ÖVP had attached direct democracy to their flags in large letters. How seriously you feel about the people in Austria and how seriously you take them, we could already see the treatment of the first popular desires in the National Council. I can remember that at the time Don’t Smoke was discussing – there were almost 900 000 signatures coming in at the time – and there was no one member of the Federal Government in the discussion in the National Council at that time – no German Chancellor, no vice chancellor, and no Minister of Health. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] I can say at this point that I see it as real progress that you, Mrs Federal Minister, are personally attending this debate today. Yes, it is a question of how to deal with the opinion of the Austrians, this half million people: disrespectful or serious? The importance of how important the concerns of the women's people continue to be, shows a view of the whole of Europe – this is all the more pronounced in the context of the EU election campaign. The view of Europe shows us that where right-wing populist governments are in power, it is precisely the women's rights that are first circumcised and shot at danger. All that we have fought in recent decades and in recent years think almost self-evident is now in danger and at least in some countries of Europe is again in disposition. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] We need to learn from this observation. We must learn that nothing we have fought on the right is natural. Let us look at Italy, where there is an interior minister named Matteo Salvini, who has recently made proposals to make divorces more difficult and to abolish child care! Let us look at Hungary where Viktor Orbán wants to introduce a birth premium for women! Let us look at Poland, where the government party PiS wanted to pass a law that would generally ban abortions! If not thousands of women in Poland had been on the streets for weeks, this law would have been implemented. They have been able to prevent it so far, but the danger remains. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Let's look at Austria! In Austria too, everything we have fought in recent decades is not of course. What our forerunners have fought in women's rights 100 years ago and in the years that followed - they have fought against great resistance - is not of course. Therefore, let us not allow these very rights which have been fought here to no longer apply to our daughters! For this we will stand and make our voice loud here as part of popular desire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is precisely this question of the design claim. The difference between right-wing and conservative and progressive or social-democratic forces in the design claim is it, which seems to distinguish us so clearly in women's policy. If the rights or conservatives speak of change, you mean step back, ladies and gentlemen. If progressive, when we talk about change, we mean progress. – Yes, that’s the big difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] For 15 months now, we have seen setbacks in many areas, but especially in women's policy, the institutionalized backlash, if you want to do so – especially in women's and family policies. Ladies and gentlemen! We say: It is more than worrying how to deal with 500,000 people who have made themselves strong for this popular desire. It is clear that this struggle for equality is not over here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, I would like to express my personal thanks to the initiators of the women's people's desire, first and foremost Lena Jäger, for your commitment, for your initiative and for this energy, which was laid here in this project for all of us, important for society in Austria. I can promise you one thing: On behalf of Social Democracy, you can be sure that you always have a partner on your side in the fight for more equality, equal opportunities and self-determination of women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8551	Mrs Schimanek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8572	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the gallery and at home! Of course, I would also like to warmly welcome the initiators of the women's people's desire at this point. If I have not supported your demands in part, even if I have not signed the women's desire, I appreciate this commitment that you have shown, the heart blood you have put in your campaign. Nearly 500 000 signatures – and that is 7.6 percent of the electorate in Austria – show yes, it is a success for you. But I cannot leave the accusation of Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner, because I think we have been very busy with the women's people's desire. In two committees, we have discussed intensively, but of course also controversially, and the points, starting with “share power”, where quotas in supervisory councils are demanded on electoral lists, have also been partially rejected by the experts. For example, Mrs. Dr. Viktoria Kickinger said – I quote: [[Abg. Lightenness: Your colleagues are also very busy at the moment, as it looks!]] The equality of opportunities for women, i.e. the "equality of opportunities", is important and not the equality of results. Quotas serve the latter and are therefore only “pure cosmetics. ” Women in supervisory councils have little to do with equality, since supervisory councils do not have enough influence to really influence the situation of women. Ergo quotas are a pure “PR-gag”. Policy should provide a framework for women to work out their own careers, and that is very important to me. On another point, which Mrs Pfurtscheller has also mentioned, ‘share money’, we were talking about differences in income and reducing it; I would also like to refer to the government programme. We have already managed a lot. I am thinking in particular of the consideration of the periods of leave in collective agreements. There we have made a milestone so that women can take these times that have been lost to them in the rapprochements. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no, no!]] I am also allowed to quote Mrs. Dr. Kickinger, who said that in the salary shears, “apples are often compared to pears”. It is simply not true that women would be less paid “for exactly the same work, without ancillary benefits” than men. Would that be so, “no one would hire men in the private sector, ” as women are more favourable. Men show more willingness for night shifts, for overtime and for heavy work, and this, of course, is also reflected in payment. This was also discussed by experts once and for all. But what was very, very important to me in this popular desire – and I went with it – is the fight against the poverty of women in Austria. We have discussed very intensively the situation of single parents, but I have lost a little bit of poverty. This has not been addressed at all in this women's people's desire, but that is very, very important. It is the single parents and pensioners who are affected by poverty in Austria. Age poverty is particularly bitter for those affected when they have raised children, perhaps only working hours or caring for family members or simply working in a job that was paid less. Also, there may have been a reason why they have become ill and therefore have not been able to comply with their work. However, it has been a real concern for me for years, especially to support the single parents and also to simplify the maintenance advance. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Will you vote against tomorrow?]] But what I am saying – and we will therefore not vote in favour of your request, Daniela – is a maintenance security for children to the extent you want it to be, because a maintenance security in the sense of state social assistance for children does not fall within the scope of the maintenance advance. [[towards Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber]] The Federal Government can only advance existing maintenance claims on the basis of the Civil Law Act. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also important for me to make the following request regarding “Reform of the child’s right” for which I have been working for quite a long time; I have almost exceeded the prescribed speaking time, even today I need a little longer. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, just one sentence that is important to me personally: We have said that we have discussed this women's desire very intensively, but this has unfortunately not been appreciated by the initiators of the women's people's desire in Weitem to the extent that we have expressed appreciation to the women's people's desire. Already during the first committee meeting on the Twitter account of the women's people's desire against Members of this House and against experts, they were defamated. I then put this to the debate at the second committee meeting before entering the agenda in a debate on the Rules of Procedure and asked that it be neglected. Unfortunately, during the second committee meeting against Members of this House and their experts on the part of the representatives of the women's people, it was also very, very extremely hot. I don't really think that's all right. If we take the time and deal with it properly, we can also demand this from the initiators of the women's people's desire, because 92 percent of the Austrian electorate did not support this women's people's desire at all. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[13:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8752	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Vogl spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8804	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs Schimanek claimed that the government was already very active within the meaning of women, and as an example brought the account of the days of birth. I'm actually correcting: On the one hand, it was a motion for a resolution from Parliament, and on the other hand, the social partners have made an improvement in the accounts and not the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8832	Mrs Gamon has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e8853	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schimanek referred to the fact that not all eligible citizens signed the popular desire, but they signed almost 482,000 citizens, and I believe that as politicians we also know what the effort is to convince so many people of one thing. I believe that you also have to say that it is not just an effort, but it is a lot of volunteer work that goes along with it, a lot of money, a lot of time to invest when you are politically involved. This is something that we should in principle appreciate more in the House. I believe that dealing with popular desires, as we see today, but also with non-smokers, also shows that we do not have enough appreciation for them, because a genuine appreciation of civil society and of the participation of citizens would be if we then continue the concerns in political action, in applications, in legislative proposals, and then finally correspond to the will of the people in many things. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Many also fight together for women and men to have the same opportunities in life that they can shape their lives in the way they want, and to make self-determined decisions as to how they want to shape their career, whether they want to have children, how intensely they want to care for them themselves, whether they want to spend time caring for their families, that is, as they want, and not how it is imposed on them from outside by bad conditions or stereotypes, which should be demanded by one or not by society. Some call it freedom of choice, I just call it freedom at all, freedom for parents – and this applies equally to heterosexual and homosexual couples, Whatever constellation – decide when to spend as much time with their children. They're supposed to do it themselves. In order to be able to make this decision at all, there is a need for a lot of framework conditions. As a result, there are sufficient childcare places, i.e. the compatibility of child care and full-time work of the parents, i.e. full-day and full-year opening hours and easy accessibility of the care facilities. I am now also counting a few things that are mentioned in the popular desire that I consider to be very essential – unified national quality standards for needs-oriented care and individual early promotion. To mention early promotion is also very important, since this is also an important point. We are also fighting for a legal right to a child care centre as well as for an individual right to karenz for each parent, which we see as a whole, very essential lever, so that, in the matter of reconciliation of family and profession, especially in the case of a fair fifty-fifty distribution of care responsibilities, which will finally also close the pay shear, finally something is doing. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this is a very essential and essential point to start with, and I think that is something the Federal Government can also show whether it is serious about women's policy, about equality at all. Another important issue that popular desire has raised is sexual self-determination and reproductive rights, because we talk about it far too rarely in this House. We speak far too rarely about how it also affects the individual freedom of young girls if that is not possible. Women must be able to deal with their sexuality by themselves. We want every woman, when she gets into the situation, to be unwantedly pregnant, to have the opportunity to decide freely how to deal with it. There is also a need for adequate education, advice and easy, low-skill access to contraception, and access to abortion without social stigma and care in every federal state in Austria must also be available. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are also fighting together to ensure that there is at last funding from a single source for the protection of violence. You know, I did not share all the demands in full content – that is well-known, and I did so in committee meetings – but I think it is important to say what is one thing at the end of this whole process in the treatment of popular desire. What we agree with is a constructive attitude and the desire to create the best possible framework conditions for all citizens in this country, so that they have the opportunity at all to fully exploit their own potential, to act self-determined in their lives, to make out of their dreams what they want. That is why I would like to stress what we have in common: We are fighting together for a better compatibility of family and profession, we are fighting together for genuine sexual self-determination, reproductive rights and physical integrity, and we are fighting together for no woman, no child, no man to be victims of domestic violence. This is something that we all have in common, and I would like to stress here with a call that it is important to focus on the common issue and also to have an appreciative approach to the demands of 481,959 people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[13:55]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9011	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. It won't be the last. Mrs Cox is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9038	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The number has already been mentioned, and it cannot be mentioned often enough because it concerns powerful citizens who have raised their voices: There are exactly 481 959 Austrians who signed this popular desire. And we must take each of these votes seriously! If the women's people's desire were a political party and if the signing of a popular desire were a choice, it would have moved to the National Council at 7.6 percent. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] In such a group, one must appreciate not only that it is there, but also that one must hear its concerns – and not just hear, but that it is about implementation. It is nice and good when you hear them, when you translate them into advertising or advertising slogans, but the implementation is still something else. I would also like to refer to your words, Mrs Pfurtscheller. You have spoken about the right to part-time and that this is already present. Of course, people can go part-time, the question is only: Who is doing this right now, men or women? . We know the statistics, and the statistics show us that it is the majority of women who do the unpaid work at home. And this has consequences; we are not talking about poverty for nothing. That's where you have to sit. You can't say: That's right, you don't have to do anything. – Yes, there is still a lot to be done! Mrs Pfurtscheller, what I would like to say to you – I will, of course, also measure you by your actions: I see the confession that you are taking women's desire seriously as very positive; we have already talked about it in advance. That is also important and right, and I will also measure it in terms of actions that come naturally. The proposal that we have here – unfortunately we cannot go along because we lack the real measures; we do not just want advertising, we want real measures – it is a matter that is already in place, and it is a matter of continuing in the way. I think that the request is simply too little. Mrs Schimanek, you mentioned that quotas do not work. We had Laura Wiesböck in the committee – we had some experts and I would like to give some insight to those people who were not in the committee – and Laura Wiesböck, a sociologist, has presented to us in the Scientific Evidence Committee that quotas not only lead to fairer opportunities for women but also to real competition, as only through quotas skills in the selection of persons are highlighted. Studies also show that those women who are admitted to administrative councils through quotas are higher qualified than their male colleagues. This is data, ladies and gentlemen, which needs to be taken seriously, and it can be seen that in 2019, unfortunately, we need to talk about quotas. I would like to continue, but this is one of the measures that are necessary and that is so called for in the women's people's desire that we support here. Furthermore: Other experts spoke. For example, we also had Monika Els in the committee, a affected woman, a single mother who told us about the obstacles and discrimination she is faced professionally – only because she is a single parent. My colleague Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber will make another request because this issue, as many people already know, is really important to us. Another expert who was invited to the Equal Treatment Committee was Marlies Hübner. From it we have learned that in Austria we are still very far away from the integration and equal treatment of people with disabilities and that the intervention into the physical self-determination rights of women does not help anyone, but rather, quite, to the contrary. As we have seen in recent days, weeks and months, women's self-determination rights are currently under fire again. You have certainly come to know that an initiative called "No Millimetres" has now been launched, and I would like to stress here once again, yesterday, the press conference. We do not turn back a millimeter when it comes to reproductive freedom and the rights of women to self-determination! [[Congratulations with JETZT and SPÖ.]] Women are male citizens. I am a powerful citizen, and I want to be able to decide for myself whether I am pregnant or not. We must not and will not deviate from this because the self-determination of the woman is to be defended – not only in 2019, but for the many, many years and the many, many women who will come after us. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] What I still need to say here is that I am very grateful to the team of the women's people for their hard work, for the many times it has spent, for the kilometers it has run, and also for the fact that, I believe, it has brought many topics to the table. For the first time, we have talked openly about LGBTIQ, not just about people, but about their challenges and fears. One of the experts then referred to in the Committee: Yes, that's a new topic to deal with. - Is that what you're serious about? A new topic? We're talking about people here! Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intergender and queer people have been there since there were people – point. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is sad that far too few of these people are represented here in Parliament. That is a sad fact, but if they are not here, we must continue to work for their rights here. [[Congratulations to JETZT and to Mr Friedl and Mr Krisper.]] Finally, I would like to stress something that one of the experts in the Committee has put to the point quite well. Gerhard Wagner, Obmann of He for She Austria, said the following – and I would like to finish my speech with that: “100 years after the introduction of women’s voting rights, we stand here and continue to negotiate equality between women and men” – in my opinion, also from other genders. – “In 100 years, our children will look back at this moment. You, honourable Members," – ladies and gentlemen – “will go into the history books, [...]” – we have the opportunity to go into the history books here, but we decide, and above all you, very much your government, “You decide under what heading.” I would also like to ask you and the Minister to stand on the side of women's rights, human rights, equal treatment and progress.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9141	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9162	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear initiators of popular desire! It is important to me to keep the following at the beginning: As a representative of the female sex, what would I like to do better than discuss equal treatment in a committee and discuss equal treatment here in plenary today? You see my choice of words: I would like equal treatment better than a women's people's desire, because I am the deepest belief that I can only compare what is the same, and only what is the same can I treat the same thing. I believe that this is a very important point, an aspect that we should really put all our efforts in the right direction, and that it is not a preference for a particular group, but a real equal treatment. – That to my deepest conviction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also important to me that you do not believe that, just because you have not signed a popular desire, you cannot agree on many points. But with a signature, of course, I put my consent among the whole convolut, and a few points – we discuss some of them here – are not to be included for me, for example, not to contribute for others. That is why there may be no signature under popular desire, which does not mean that we are not deeply convinced that equal treatment is a very important topic that we can actually live in ourselves every day – and we actually have it most in hand – because that is the most important thing. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] But it is a mistake – and now I can share on this one point, namely work, the issue I have taken out of myself – that the general reduction of working time is the general remedy to achieve more employment of women, to combat poverty, against unemployment – quite the contrary. It is also not precisely defined in women's people's desire in what form this reduction in working time should take, whether with full wage compensation or without wage compensation. This is a rather essential detail, however, because if you are in the situation of having to calculate hourly rates, it is not irrelevant whether it is done at the same wage for less working time or not. So either the work becomes more expensive by a quarter – and I do not know whether we want to believe that the Austrian consumer will pay a quarter more for a haircut in the future – or, if this measure is not based on wage compensation, the family, the mother who is raising has a quarter less household income, less money in the pocket. I believe that this is not what we want in principle, quite the contrary. Another mistake is that the work, which then becomes free, so to speak, these ten hours, which then become free, can be occupied at any time by anyone. If we believe that, then we would have all the discussions that we held last year towards the shortage of skilled workers in the direction of: We need to make sure that we train our young people as best we can so that we can keep the quality of Austrian products and services at this level and are competitive with them!, go, actually sleep; if we believe so now. – That means that it is not one to one transferable point. I would also like to make a small correction: Not all people who work part-time do so because they have become victims. We know that the desire to work part-time is four times higher among job seekers than the desire for full-time employment, and that we should all, I believe, live in the desire to create the framework conditions that can give this freedom to each individual: How many hours do I really want to work? How many hours do I want to spend with my family? [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] A little bitter side-taste is still there for me. I have a bit of a problem with this state regulation: a state regulation on working time, a state regulation, how and with whom, so to say, these posts can then be occupied. This fits for me as a liberal person – apologise, that costs you a laugh now, that's all right, but I see it for myself anyway; I'm a very freedom-loving person, as an entrepreneur anyway – not together at all. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] [[Abg. Loacker: Then why use the chamber system?]] – This has nothing to do with the Chamber of Commerce. Summary: In Austria, we have an excellent system – yes, and now we come to it – of social partners who are negotiating precisely these things. [[Abg. Loacker: (delighted) This has nothing to do with the chamber!]] – Well, then let’s talk about the structure: It has something to do with the Chamber of Commerce, because there are exactly those who represent the industries and who know: What does the industry need? What do the employees need to do? – You can find the right thing for the respective industry individually, and not stately decreed and overrun, one over all. We have also decided to take those measures that will bring more money into the pockets of the Austrians at the end of the day. If we reduce working time, we also reduce income, then people remain less. The reduction of working time does not create freedom, but flexibilization of working time creates the freedom to shape one's life model as one wants to, freedom to decide how much one wants to work, whether one wants to work little – depending on what model of life one is currently in. Finally, the final study of the budget service gives us the right – which I believe is, in any case, questionable to be fractionally burned. This is about the redistribution, and Austria, together with Germany, France, Belgium, is right behind Finland in the top European field. I think that shows that it's the right way we're going. We are not yet at the end of this path, and I would like to repeat it again: Equal treatment begins with each of us, in the way we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9248	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9273	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Equality and equal treatment are two different terms, Mrs Colleague, which you have just spoken before me. We have good equal treatment laws, but that does not mean that all women are equal. We have good laws on violence, but that does not mean that all women are protected from violence. And although 500 000 people have signed the women’s desire, it is far from that that you are now taking a step towards this large group, because for what has been commanded so far, you almost have to be ashamed of yourself. I therefore believe that it is all the more important that, although this report by the Equal Treatment Committee on the two expert hearings is likely to be adopted unanimously today, we will not stop bringing these issues back to the table for a long time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why my group, ladies and gentlemen, will also allow us to address the nine demands and some more than 30 individual initiatives which this women's people's desire has included – and this women's people's desire is needed because women in our society, although they represent half of the population, are far from equal; once again: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Difference between equality and equal treatment! – you, and in particular the women’s representatives of the government parties, ask whether you can go along with one or another request – that you will not go with everyone – is clear to me, but with one or another. We have prepared 30 applications. I now allow myself to bring in the first five here, my fellow Members will make further proposals, and I hope that we will not end this debate today, but that we will keep this debate alive over the next few weeks and months and that the women's people's desire will be remembered again and again. I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Federal Minister, I ask you – for the last 15 months you have done nothing for women in this country, I have not felt any measure we are discussing, let alone, that would have made any contribution to improving the life situation of women, and therefore, I believe, it is really necessary that we take the next steps here in the sense of all women, all men who have signed this popular desire. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić]] [[Call:Don't vote at all]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:15]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9633	The five motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. Next item is Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9661	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen, The demands of women's people are broad: sharing power to eliminate income differences, from sexual self-determination to social security, from work to women's quotas. Indeed, there is a call for quotas in economic and political terms, and if they are not fulfilled, there will be sanctions. We have already made it clear in the hearing that we are not in favour of it and cannot go along with it, because a quota regulation means getting the place or the place only because of the sex, regardless of performance and qualification. In the same way, we speak out against abortions for sickness, because pregnancy is not a disease. What we want is support and preservation of life, and that without compromising the time-limit solution. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Even in the case of the claim for a right to free care for each child at the end of the mother protection – that is, usually from eight weeks after the birth of the child to the 14th. Year of life – we can't help, because that would mean: childcare away from the parents, to the nationalization of responsibility for our little ones – and that can't be in the minds of the children. On the subject of violence, the experts in the Committee have reported on the extremely increasing numbers, and these are also shocking. Every fifth woman over 15 is affected by physical violence and sexual violence in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is unfortunately still a sad fact in Austria, and it also has many faces: physical, sexual and psychological violence. We reject all forms of violence against women, children and men. Mrs Mag. As part of the hearing, Dr. Ranninger has reported on the current situation in the field of violent crime from the point of view of the criminal police. One understands a wide range of crimes such as murders, body injuries, withdrawals from freedom, forced marriage, trafficking in human beings and, of course, crimes against sexual integrity and self-determination. Ms Ranninger of the Federal Criminal Office also drew attention to the fact that women today experience violence differently from men, they are more often affected by violence in the family and sexual assaults, and in 2018 alone, the number of female victims of murder has doubled. In total, Austria considers Ranningers to have a good anti-violence law, but further measures are needed. In this sense, it welcomes the approach followed by the Task Force towards victim protection-oriented culprits. At the beginning of 2019, there were eight murders in just 40 days in Austria, seven victims were women – a sad balance sheet. In these cases, violence against women should not simply be allowed under the carpet; it is difficult to allow uncontrolled immigration of men who bring their anti-female world view to Austria. Free facilities and services for women, just as they are mentioned in popular desire, are of course important and necessary, but that is too little. Violence must not be tolerated, violence must be clearly condemned in all forms. Finally addressed to Mrs Rendi-Wagner: Ms Rendi-Wagner criticized the birth premium in Hungary. I'm just wondering what's so bad about that. To remember and to refresh the SPÖ: Even at Krekky’s time, there was a birth premium, including a marriage premium – a birth premium of 16 000 schilling and a marriage premium of 15,000 schilling. This should be just a freshening for the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9725	Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9746	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This was also a reminder, among other things, that many things were also done under Bruno Kreisky, which were not very meaningful and because we have a massive debt problem. I've never understood the wedding premium, but whatever. Let's talk about women's people's desire: I would now, since it is the second time that a women's people's desire is being dealt with here in the house, and the first time I speak about it, I would like to talk about things that would actually be very easy to implement and in which, from my point of view, there are no great ideological divisions. We are all concerned that the income shears between man and woman are finally closed. I think that's where we all agree. The question is: How do we get there? – A key problem in this context is that care and care work, family care and the care of children between men and women are unevenly distributed. Now is the question of what opportunities we can create so that it becomes less uneven. One essential point that we always propose is to create an individual claim for care, so that both men and women have an individual right to karenz. Unfortunately, it is still the case that most women go in Karenz because they earn less and the men more. If this were to be made individually, we would have a chance in the area. Another opportunity we would have from our point of view, and this is also a point where we could agree, in a major problem related to income shears, namely that in so-called typical women's professions such as hairdresser, seller and so on, collectively less deserved than in so-called typical men's occupations. There would be a need for the social partners to go a little further once in the course of negotiations, because there is obviously a connection. If we look further at this, there is an essential point in whether there is an offer for childcare at all. There too we agree very much on ourselves, and I was surprised that it was spoken of as a means of nationalising childcare. But it is the question of whether there is an offer at all. If you drive to the northern forest area and try to find a kindergarten that has been open for longer than 1 pm – and this is a luxury anyway, if one has open until 13.00 – then you will look for a very long time and you will find none. The only national kindergarten in Lower Austria, which is open until 5 p.m., is located in the capital of St. Pölten. Now explain to a salesman who is in the store longer than 5 p.m. how to pick up her child at 5 p.m. So we need a legal right to a childcare centre, and I think it is primarily not about whether it is free or not, but first of all whether you have a legal claim that there is a childcare place at all. If he doesn't exist, then it doesn't matter if he costs something or not; but he has to exist once. One essential point in which, I believe, we all agree is that there is a need to fight poverty in old age. Unfortunately, poverty in old age is most of God's female. There are many different reasons for this. Mrs Smodics-Neumann mentioned that part-time work should not be destroyed. I see that as well, but one has to say at part-time that unfortunately, it is often a reason for women to be in poverty. I know it from my own experience, because my mother worked part-time. If my father had been divorced from my mother, she would have had a massive problem at age. We know how high the divorce rates in Austria are. That means I have no problem with someone working part-time, but you have to say clearly from the beginning what this means for the pension claim. One last point, and I would be very pleased if the ÖVP would finally be in the process: Mrs Bundesminister, you obviously support the pension division that we have been proposing for a long time. Mrs Pfurtscheller has also mentioned this. We need an automatic pension split to ensure that pension contributions are finally charged for both. You would be required to convince either your coalition partner or your own parliamentary group. If you did, we would have taken a step towards greater justice in this country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9795	Next speaker: Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9816	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow citizens! Like the Don’t-smoke people’s desire, the government’s fractions today probably carry the women’s people’s desire to grave and take a not exactly great step towards maintenance security. No, the application that has been submitted today means a delay again and no improvement for the single parents and their children, who could reach even tomorrow. The women's people's desire is to combat poverty: Single parents and their children need to be protected from the need for money – for real equal opportunities! And the first point of concern in this women's population. a nationally guaranteed right to maintenance advance as long as family aid is granted, i.e. a maintenance guarantee. Today, we would not have to discuss whether there is a security of maintenance or not if German Chancellors had kept short and vice chancellors strate their promises out of the election campaign. They were asked in the Pulse 4 elephant round by the moderator Corinna Milborn: Is the state supposed to jump in for single-parents and take care of the maintenance? I'd like to help you with the jumps your party leaders answered at the time. Both short and tight answered with a clear and clear yes at the time of the election, when it was still about promises to obtain voters. [[The speaker holds a picture of German Chancellors Kurz and Vice-Chancellor Strache, both of whom show a "yes" table.]] That was in September 2017! And bring it today. A request is made that you order a working group to work out a solution by 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! They write in this proposal that the government programme should be implemented. If the ÖVP's family spokesperson now calls out that something is done anyway, I would like to point out to you the government programme. In particular, it states that the maintenance advance should be evaluated. Dear family spokesmen of the ÖVP! An evaluation no longer means a cent for a single parent, an evaluation by 2020 does not help children of single-parent, single-parent households living at the poverty line. There is a need for State security, a maintenance security, a maintenance guarantee and no mere evaluation. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If you had taken the promise of your party members seriously at the time and had been implemented here in Parliament, we would not have to talk today about 47 percent of all single parents living in poverty and facing social exclusion. My request at the time, and that is the request number one, the first request of this legislative period, has dealt exactly with this maintenance security, and since then nothing has happened. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] He has repeatedly been postponed in the Committee, and today you make a request for an evaluation to be carried out by 2020. Please take it seriously! Talk to your party leaders and ask what this promise was really worth at the time and what the voters had promised at the time! [[the speaker keeps the image of German Chancellor Kurz and Vice-Chancellor Strache up again]] [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] I would like to give you the opportunity to really implement a maintenance security and therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your consent. Take yourself seriously and do not continue to mock your voters! Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[14:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e9980	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10008	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I am again a member of the Equal Treatment Committee during this legislative period, as well as during the previous legislative periods. I have to say that men do well for us to hear more and more such topics, this variety of women's policy issues, that we get to know the discussions and often get the specific women's view on issues. I very much welcome this, and therefore I am very happy to cooperate in this committee. Mrs Holtinger-Vogtenhuber! If you are already quoting from the government programme, I would ask you to really quote the government programme correctly, because just pick out fragments and not read the whole sentence, that simply is not possible. I would like to read to you the whole sentence: ‘The Maintenance Advancement Act shall examine and, where appropriate, close existing gaps. Rapid further development and evaluation of the maximum maintenance limits for the financial security of single and single educators’. – This is the clear plan of this government, and that is what we stand for. And this is also the right way to do that, as we have put it today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Estimated colleague Rendi-Wagner! I don't expect the opposition to praise the government's work every day. That's not expected at all. But here he comes and says: The last 15 months of government work have been a step backwards from the family and women's policies, which goes a little too far. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is the bitter truth!]] Look at the facts! You really just want to shake your head here until you find the famous hair in the soup, and if you don't find any hair, just invent one. – But it's not that easy! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This government, like no other, has set milestones in women's and family policy. Why don't we just take the family bonus? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This family bonus helps 950 000 families with 1.6 million children. In Vorarlberg, my home country, there are 71 000 families and 298 000 in Vienna. At 1,750 euros gross, 1 500 euros of tax relief for the first child is already collected. That's a real milestone! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Above all, it is also a point landing, as confirmed by a Wifo study last autumn, that your March is not the right one for the super-rich, but that we reach the middle class, those people who are the backbone of our economy and this society who support and work with their daily work. We're going to give these people a discharge. That confirms a Wifo study! [[Abg. Lightness: Well, if it's a Wifo study!]] I read the text to you: The family bonus increases the available household income between 0.4 and 2.6 percent and brings another reduction in the Gini coefficient. The family bonus therefore also has a redistribution effect and reduces the risk of poverty. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is not a quote from a speech by our Mrs Minister, but it is a quote from an analysis by the European Commission, which has taken a very close look at the family bonus and has considered this family bonus to be a great instrument. – Thank you for this positioning! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another important step for which our Minister can be said thankfully is the 15a agreement on childcare – a really important step. It was a mammoth task to implement it accordingly with the countries. What other members of the government of past governments have failed to do, this has been achieved by our Lady Minister. Over 180 million euros were made available for the next four years. 180 million euros! Of these, 38 million euros are from the countries and 142 million euros from the federal government to ensure adequate childcare. [[Call to the SPÖ:The government wanted to cut short!]] Nothing is shortened here, but the resources are provided: In particular, EUR 12 million for elementary education and the expansion of childcare for children under the age of three will be supported. I think this is a success of our Mrs Minister to whom we can congratulate accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Summa summarum is to say: This government is making an excellent family and women's policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We would nevertheless like to congratulate the proponents of the women's people's desire. With 481,959 supporters, the women's people's desire is to be regarded as a success. [[Abg. Lightenness: They will now rejoice over this congratulations!]] Even if I did not sign it because there are many points inside that were not to be carried for us, I would like to thank them for their efforts. We continue on our way and will continue to make an excellent policy for women and families in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10142	Next speaker: Mr Mario Lindner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10167	Highly esteemed Madam President! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are experiencing a women's policy backlash from this government, but not enough, we are also experiencing a human backlash. Because it can't be said often enough: Thanks to all the activists of the women's people's desire! Thank you to all the women and men, to all the nearly 500,000 people who have supported this popular desire! Thank you very much. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I asked a 19-year-old activist of the women's people's desire what he would say if he could stand here today. He wrote me, he'd say, He's proud of this team. There has been a huge discourse on women's rights, which there would not have been without women's people's desire. Women's rights are achievements that must be defended and not undermined, for example, how governments are currently making changes in the resolution of deadlines. The Constitution says that every human being should be treated equally. Then we start with it – with ourselves! Let's be more tolerant, more open and supportive. – That’s what a 19-year-old activist of women’s people’s desire says. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] On the government groups: Ladies and gentlemen! Carmen Schimanek of FPÖ said on 11.12.2018 that the women's people's desire contains very useful and important points of women's policy that deserve support. [[Abg. Schimanek: Parts!]] Our Federal Minister said on March 8, 2018, according to the “Little Newspaper”: “I support many points in this popular desire: Violence prevention, child care development, gender medicine, wage shears’. “There are some points that go too far for me.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups and of the NEOS! You're making a request today. This request is a pang for all activists, this request is a pang for all 500 000 people who have signed the popular desire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This request is a mockery for all women in Austria. This is not the way to deal with women's policy! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We as SPÖ do not let the demands of the women's people's desire go out of Parliament. Almost all specialist committees will have to deal with the content – to this end, we will submit 30 requests here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Johanna Dohnal said: “I think it’s time to remember: The vision of feminism is not a ‘feminism’. It's a human future. Without force majeure, power and violence, without masculine and femininity.’ [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] [[14:41]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10502	Ladies and gentlemen, as these have now been many motions for resolutions, I must once again, with the support of Parliament's Directorate, look at what has been properly put in place. – Mr Lindner, the second request you have read, is not before us and is therefore deemed not to be submitted. The other motions for resolutions, which have been read, have been properly put to the vote and are being put to the vote at the end of the debate. Mrs Dr.in Susanne Principal has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10530	Madam President. High house! You've gotten a little messed up with the many applications yourself. If you were really concerned about the concerns that have been put forward in it, you would have brought them to us at least last night so that we could have looked at them. That's really pure propaganda. That's how you deal with women's rights! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] For women's people's desire: That I cannot sign this popular desire I knew at first glance when I looked at the text. If you look at the title, there is not quite normal women's people's desire to write it if you still have learned German spelling correctly in the folk school, but it stands as women's desires with their many supporters. Then it is further explained that more than a hundred years ago the “Women*Wahlrecht” has been fought thanks to the many, many “preachers”. So it is not about the woman in the biological sense – not that is the subject of popular desire – but about a social construct woman – that is expressedly so – who is subject to discrimination throughout his life. But I can't identify with that, because I don't feel addressed. I keep it here with the statement of a transsexual woman who said: “We have not asked anyone on our behalf to offend and force the entire German-speaking population with these rules of law [...]” such as the sex star or the great I. We don't want to be visible in every sentence. “We want to be a normal part of society.” [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can sign that, and that's what we're standing for. We stand for individual freedom, but not for up-to-date social models. The support of the population has not really been able to revise my decision. I was also equally clear why this popular desire received around 170 000 less votes than that 20 years ago, because we women – obviously both biological and social – are usually simply intelligent, reasonable beings and certainly do not sign demands based on completely false facts that hide reality and represent economic madness, because they lean on an economic and political system that is spectacularly collapsed in 1989. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These are demands that are openly antifamily and that divide women and men into two camps, a victim's and a perpetrator's caste. This is a division of society that is always accused of us, but which actually comes from this side. The man is only the old, white, well-defiled man, who can only pay for all these demands, but else he has to apologize for his mere existence, or if he is perhaps so revolutionary that he wants to live quite normally with a family. So he can only pay more, nothing else. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Ms. Rendi-Wagner complains that women's rights are at stake, which have really been fought by our women, that is, without women's sisters, that they are in danger, but they want to pass them on to the next generation, I can only say that we also want to, they are in danger. However, like the initiators – with stars – you hide the real danger of the reality completely, because neither in your speech nor in popular desire is Islamization mentioned only with one word, which leads to a backlash that we cannot imagine at all. [[Ah-Rufe at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no word for the headcloth, no word for the situation of the teachers who are not given the hand, so they are ignored in the classrooms, no word to the students who have to undergo a dress control – no word, complete fade-out of reality! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, not all women are protected from violence. They are, above all, exposed to violence by the thousands of young men of Arab, North African origin, who have let your government in completely uncontrolled. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We've got to get rid of this. Not Orbán, Salvini or our government are those who endanger women's rights, but quite the contrary. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You cut the means...!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: What to work for? Get out of Austria, that's absurd!]] There is no doubt that we are fighting to preserve our situation somehow and to restore our rights and our security in some way. Living diversity, self-determination, that sounds good – absolutely – but the young people, if they implement what is in popular desire, now no longer have to deal with as prominent questions as we did at the time, such as: What am I going to do? If I get a man, don't I get one? Who am I going with? Do I have a family? Can I possibly do anything for society sometime and give back to the state? - No, that's all passé. Our children should now deal with gender identity. In the schools in Germany, in the school books, it is already spread that it is perfectly in order not to feel part of a sex. Male professors are supposed to please the universities to be addressed as a professor, but there is nothing in it. In the U.S. – which is always a few years ahead of us – the fact that a high double-digit percentage of young people do not feel clearly assigned to a gender. [[Abg. Gamon: You don't care!]] This is cool now, is also alive and, of course, is also fired by social media. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If you think that's real reality: This is artificially created reality and a new model of society to be re-octroyed. [[New call for tender Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That means octroyed!]] It's propaganda for me, it's completely wrong tolerance. Life in diversity, yes, of course, is about it. The schools are especially concerned with giving our children a desire for spiritual diversity, a desire for education, for achievement, for gaining as much knowledge as possible. We should create young people, self-conscious, character-resistant personalities, who then find themselves in their self-determined life and who then freely decide to live in their private life the life they want, whether that is family or another model. These will of course also respect all other forms of life, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10663	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Bogner-Strauß has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10685	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! It has always been a civil society commitment, which has brought a great deal for equal treatment and for equality between women and men. This shows above all this year: 100 years ago, women were allowed to go to the urns for the first time to vote and to be elected. 100 years ago, women were first admitted to technical universities to study. We must thank them for these civil society initiatives, and they must be recognized. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, I would also like to thank the initiators of the women's people's desire, both for what we are now dealing with, and for what we already had in 1997. It is very important for women and men to take initiatives, to strengthen women's rights and to demand fair participation in politics, economy and society, and above all through awareness raising in our society. Of course we listen to the 500 000 voices of people who have signed the women's desire and we are not just taking one step, but we are taking many steps towards those who have initiated and signed the women's people's desire. I already said that raising awareness in society is a very important aspect. My credo is therefore also, equality begins at home. Nevertheless, 20 years ago, the women's desire was incredibly important to implement a lot: the anchoring of equality between women and men in the federal constitution, the promotion of equality between women through education policies, a legal right to part-time work for parents, but also a pension-enhancing effect of child education and care work. However, points remain open, namely improving the compatibility of family and work and equal pay for equivalent work. That is why, of course, it is also important to continue to support those points that remained in 1997. We have done this by improving the compatibility of family and work by expanding childcare places, especially for those under three years old, because there is definitely still a need to catch up in Austria. We do this by flexibilizing the opening hours in the childcare facilities. It has already been mentioned that kindergartens are often not open at all in rural regions in the afternoon. As regards equal pay for equivalent work, we are also in the process of implementation. 100 years ago it was required to be legally anchored 40 years ago and again demanded in popular desire 20 years ago. At this point I would like to ask my predecessor the question: What did you do about this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It was the predecessors of the Social Democratic Party who also failed to close the wage shears. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Many demands of the women's people's desire in 2018 could – I say quite honestly – come from my feather, but I have always known that I can't carry some 100 percent. But much is covered by our political objectives and is enshrined in the government programme. I should just like to mention a few points here: the closure of pay shears, equal pay for equal work and equality between women on the labour market, the compatibility of family and work, the fight against poverty, social security for women and, above all, the prevention of violence. Ladies and gentlemen! On the whole, we have the same goals, we may only go there other ways. Let me therefore also come to the facts from the emotions that have already taken place here. We have expanded childcare, we have already focused on the protection of victims and violence last year. He was right, he was necessary, and he was important. That is why I would like to continue this year, of course. We have involved 120 experts in criminal law with the Taskforce. We have adopted 50 measures, and a large bundle of these measures comes from me: a three-digit emergency number so that women can choose the emergency call, 365 days 24 hours a day, for quick help in acute situations, for first and crisis advice. Often it is children who are affected by violence in families. We want to force the networking platform of those responsible for protecting child welfare. Counselling in the event of sexual violence: We will also expand this across the board. At the moment, this is not yet anchored in four federal states. This will be implemented soon. For high risk cases, we also need non-bureaucratic cross-border women's homes. That's where it needs quick help. Women must be able to switch to other federal states, namely legally. Transitional apartments in the federal states are also quite, very important. Women can often, even if they are no longer directly affected by violence, not leave the women's homes because of lack of transitional housing. That is why I will, together with the federal states, make available funds and invest in the care of these women in transitional homes. At the end of March, I invited all the political leaders to a summit of violence in Vienna. We had a really excellent exchange there. We talked about the best possible framework conditions, which are all-party. The last thing I would like to mention is: I can understand you as initiators and initiators of the women's people's desire if you say it's time. I have already mentioned that the same wage for the same work was required over 100 years ago, was legally established 40 years ago and was first recorded in the women's people's desire 20 years ago. Now it's inside again. Things often take a very long time, but we are trying to bring this into practice faster than my predecessors have done. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition, it is not only a matter of making efforts, but also of putting them into practice. We have to take action, we have to find the right framework and we have to think of solutions. I believe – and I would like to speak again with Barbara Krenn’s words – that only together will we manage to ensure that in Austria women are not only equal, but also treated equally. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10794	Next: Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10812	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I would like to remind you once again of what we are talking about: It is about the protection of violence, it is about real right of opportunity and it is about self-determination. I am convinced that we all in this room confess to these goals that every person here in this room, for their friends, wants to have real equal opportunities for their daughters as well. We all want finally to create a framework for women having a genuine freedom of choice, whether they want to work or whether they want to take care of child care, and for women to have a fair share of money, power and work in Austria. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Now, if it's said by some: Yes, this freedom of choice, which has been there for a long time, and women in Austria are already the same!, then I can prove to you both from personal experience and from dozens of conversations with the same age, but also through statistics that this is not the case in Austria. If we are talking about the same wage for the same work – the Minister has mentioned it – we are talking about this gender pay Gap and how blatant it is in Austria. If we look at the European cut, we realize that Austria is among the top riders as far as the gap between men and women is concerned. We all have to ask ourselves why. We all need to work together to reduce these payloads. [[Congratulations to JETZT and to Mr Leichtfried and Mr Lindner.]] I recently found a study that I would like to share with you because it concerns many friends of mine because it will affect me and because it is generally a matter of many women. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a curve chart for the development of income can be seen compared to women and men in Austria and Germany before and after the birth of the first child.]] It is a long-term study that states that women and men rise more or less the same way, as far as wages are concerned, but from the birth of the first child, there is an obvious difference: Women's wages are reduced by almost 51 percent. This difference – that's the tension – remains blatant in the following ten years, remaining 51 percent less than before the child's birth. By comparison, the male income: This remains unchanged, regardless of how many children there are in the family. We have to ask ourselves the question: How do we deal with these statistics, because at the end of the day these facts in the statistics are also responsible for having a Gender Pay Gap. [[Congratulations with JETZT and Mr Friedl and Mr Leichtfried.]] Our male colleagues are also fathers, they also want to have the right and the opportunity to go to Karenz and take care of their children. Unfortunately, the reality in Austria looks different. Many factors are responsible for this; I would like to focus briefly on two factors. First: Men still go less often in Karenz in Austria, compared to 2006 even less. Secondly, There is a lack of adequate, comprehensive and free childcare facilities throughout Austria. We must devote these two factors to ourselves, because then we may be able to change these statistics and remove these blatant wage shears. [[keeping the panel with the curve diagram in height again]] [[Congratulations to JETZT, and to Mr Leichtfried and Mr Schatte.]] Thank you again to everyone and also thank all the female peoples, for you are responsible for talking about these issues and that we do not stop talking about these issues until there is opportunity for everyone at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10894	The next item is Mrs Angelika Kuss-Bergner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10915	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate to seeers on the gallery and at home! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Mrs Colleague, you said you felt nothing about the measures. I think maybe because you're not affected. Please talk to those concerned! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Which interested parties?]] I think the measures have also arrived. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If a child is born in a family, then every mother, every father, has the same desire always the best for the child. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] Every day since I became Mom 18 years ago, I've been working on what's best for my four daughters, how I can be a good example of how I can best accompany them on their way to growing up to strong women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yılmaz]] That means strengthening my daughters so far and giving them the self-understanding, self-confidence and self-determined action, making decisions independently and independently. This is a task that countless mothers and fathers fulfill every day. It is hard work to present to the daughters, but also to the sons, a women's image, which imparts self-esteem and strength to them. I know a lot of women who have been admirably successful. I would like to stress and mention once again to an admirable woman here today, namely our recently deceased female spokesperson, the honourable Member of the National Council Barbara Krenn. She was a woman who gave strength to other women and who acted as hardly anyone else. I would like to stress her once again in this debate as a strong woman who was and will remain a model for many. Thank you, Barbara! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me briefly describe my experiences with the many women I have talked to about their challenges. Many are concerned about whether they are a bad mother because they go to work. It is a matter of conscience for them; they have not talked about legal conditions but about their feelings. They fear that they will be condemned in their environment because they are going to work. That's inside their heads, so a law wouldn't change these sensations either. But what we can do very well is that girls who are in elementary school visit the school every day with a sign of oppression. Yeah, I see it this way: For me, the headcloth is a sign of the oppression of the woman. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In an informed society, we do not need to discuss why it should be allowed for girls to wear a headscarf in folk school. Let us create a room for these girls in the school where they can develop, in which they are not restricted at the age of seven or eight! I know it's not a cure, but it's a foundation stone. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Fit to headgear: Let us briefly talk about sexism, depreciation and stereotypes, which are also addressed in popular desire. We'll all agree that we don't want to. At all costs, we will all want to prevent our own daughter from being exposed to sexism, being devalued as a woman, or confined by stereotypes in decisive life decisions. Of course there is unity among us. But now the question is in the room: Then where does the discrepancy come from in this discussion? – The differences arise from how we manage to solve these problems. I don't want to pretend we arrived at the goal, nor do I want to dramatize the state of the situation. If the talk is about breaking down role credits, then I am quite clear about it, but that legal anchorages and bans are essential to that, I don't think so. The children first orient themselves at the parents' home where they are lived, where they are taught values and role models are developed. That's where the responsibility lies for which role my child grows up with. This responsibility, which is lived at home, cannot and should not take over by the state. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But what the state can take over is, of course, what is going on in school. In the school can be suspended if enhanced role images have been provided. Girls and boys should be able to unfold there, so symbols of oppression must not have a place. The headgear is 100 percent a roll title, and this is very urgent to question. I can conclude with an extract from the government programme of the Federal Government: “Women in Austria take on responsibility today in all social and life-saving areas [...]. The performance of these tasks and the performance of these services of women shall be justified accordingly.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I trust in the many Austrian women who every day give everything to offer their daughters the best and take responsibility for strengthening their daughters in all areas of life to make them future models.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e10997	Next, Mrs Sabine Schatz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11021	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Simone de Beauvoir once said: “Women who don’t ask for anything are taken by word – they get nothing.” – She should keep right. 100 years after the women's right to vote has been implemented in Austria after women's struggle, we need a second women's people's desire, which shows us in nine areas that we are still far from equal rights, from an end to gender discrimination. Take the chapter prevent violence: We are all shaken by the high number of women's murders that happened last year, as well as by the series of women's murders that started this year. But this is only the tip of the iceberg, because in Austria every fifth woman living in a relationship is affected by violence, regardless of age, origin or social position. What we need now, ladies and gentlemen, is not another task force that is working on it and preparing measures, because the proposals of the experts are already on the table, and we have already discussed them here in connection with the Grevio report. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we need is a rapid implementation of the 100 additional services already adopted for women affected by violence. Finally, make the necessary money available! What we need is an extension of women's houses to finally eliminate the white spots. What we need is a well-developed, easily accessible and free network of nationally funded advisory centres for women and children affected by violence, and not cuts in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we need is close cooperation between intervention agencies with police and judicial authorities in order to avoid repetition states as much as possible. We can't understand that the Marac case conferences have been abolished. Please proceed quickly to the implementation of the promised new case conferences in this area and ensure compulsory culprit work! What we need is awareness-raising programmes in schools, but also for the police and justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Many demands from the women's people's desire should also serve to prevent violence against women and to enable women to break out of violent relations: economic independence, equal pay for equal work, a right to childcare, which allows women to go to full-time work first, and so on. There is much to be done, so I am still tabling a number of motions for resolutions so that we can put the appropriate emphasis here: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, show you the flag for women's rights! Thank you. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] [[15:17]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11395	The motions for resolutions are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mrs Plasolm's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11420	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In this year we are particularly reminded of a large milestone not only in women's policy, but generally in politics: 100 years ago, women were able to participate actively in democracy for the first time and the first women moved into parliament. Today, almost 40 percent of MEPs are women. The women's right to vote was not given to us at the time, which was a long way that required a lot of persuasion, many had to make themselves strong for it. For my generation, democracy has become a matter of course. But it is also natural for us that all people share in democracy and have the same rights. Now to the present women's people's desire: I support many points of popular desire, but I do not agree with everyone. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, neither do I!]] For example, I cannot support the full cost of abortion, and I think it is extremely wrong to talk about a general reduction in working time in the context of a woman's desire. Since December, we have discussed a lot about this popular desire in the Equality Committee. We invited many experts, including the initiators and spoke to us. We have found that we agree on many demands, and we are taking a common approach, for example in the elimination of differences in income between men and women, the compatibility of family and work by child care, or the extension of the protection of violence and the prevention of violence. Many measures have already been launched in these areas, for example by increasing wage transparency, more flexible opening hours of childcare facilities, targeted support for families through the new family bonus and over 50 measures following the Taskforce's criminal law to protect women from violence. [[Call the SPÖ:On paper!]] Ladies and gentlemen have already mentioned many chapters of women's desire. I would also like to highlight the issue of diversity, which is about the cliché of men and women in advertising and media. A modern family image is increasingly being lived in our society, more and more men are participating in the education, the papal month and the father's care become more and more attractive. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This respectful and equal manner of dealing with each other is also gradually reflected in the media. [[New call to the SPÖ.]] Especially in my generation, social media are also very present, in which many ideals are always presented. In particular, young people are more at risk of becoming self-confidence, and in schools, gratefully, they are very much aware of this issue, particularly in connection with the new media. Another point that may arise from it is the issue of hatred on the web. Unfortunately, cross-border crossings on the Internet continue to occur, and in the event of violence on the Internet, it also needs responsibility and strict consequences. The Internet must not be a criminal space where perpetrators can hide in anonymity. On the Internet, the same rules must apply as in the real world. For those affected, there is therefore a need to protect and prevent the so-called digital disguise ban, and in the future platform operators will have to identify the identity of posters. We are guilty of all the victims, they have the right to be held responsible for the perpetrators. Back to Women's People's Desire: Women's policy must be as diverse as women and girls in our country. I think that we here in Parliament often bring a wide range of perspectives into the discussion. The prospects are sometimes very different, but the goal does not differ, namely: equal opportunities for women and men. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11478	The next item is Mrs Birgit Sandler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11505	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Members of the House! Values Advisors! Compatibility of family and profession is the basic condition for women to feed their families. It is a possibility that women can freely choose whether and how much they work outside the family association. It is a possibility for women to break out of partnerships in which they and their children experience violence. It is a new way of avoiding poverty and poverty in the future. It is simply the opportunity to lead a self-determined and independent life. However, this is only possible with framework conditions such as high-quality and flexible childcare facilities and similar measures – that is what politics has to do with it and thus also this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:25]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11879	Mrs Sandler has now properly tabled six motions for resolutions, so they are also negotiating. Mrs Gudrun Kugler spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e11906	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Mrs Sandler, we have known for months that the women's people's desire here is that it be discussed today – and then one hour before the beginning of the meeting 30 requests from the SPÖ come. You read it like your comrades in a door that we don't even come with it anymore. [[Abg. Lightenness: We have taken an example of how you deal with requests!]] That's not serious politics! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Is that important to you? - Then we'll do it differently. [[Abg. Loacker: You did that under the Working Time Act!]] I don't want to be naïve, but that's not how I imagine politics. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Light peace.]] Because the initiators are here today, I would like to appreciate the commitment of the women's people. [[Abg. Lightenness: And the working time law, when did you bring it in? 1 minute before!]] I personally had the opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Lena Jäger for a longer period of time. It has already been said that I would like to comment on two issues: one is the fight against poverty. The demands of the women's people lack a very important point, namely the issue of women's age poverty. We know that women are nearly twice as affected as men, and it was a very important demand from women's people in 1997 to introduce a right to parental leave. Today, however, as part of the women's people's desire, we should talk about how we can neutralize the disadvantages precisely in old age, yes, eliminate them. But this is not what women's desire is. The second point: With the demands on poverty, they want to improve the situation of single-parents, to improve children of single-parents in comparison to families. As regards the rule requirement rate, if a family fails to meet the rule requirement rate, then the social system takes effect in our system. Why should this be better for single parents? The same with the maintenance guarantee: If a maintenance officer is not capable of doing so in an upright relationship, the social system shall take effect. Why should this be different after a separation? A basic income for single parents, for children of single parents, but not for families – that is unfair, and this proposal was not really thought through. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the topic of conflict pregnancies, women's people's desire only suggests: The health insurance companies are supposed to pay for the demolition. I would like to remind you of a sentence by Bruno Kreisky, who in 1973 said in the House: “You have to do everything you can to make these [...] paragraphs as absolute as the means of politics, psychology and even morality are, in order to cause the woman to be kept when she receives the child.” – Bruno Kreisky said. Our goal – and for this we need the proposals of the women’s people’s desire – is that no woman feels compelled by the circumstances to abortion. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're blaming the woman!]] – No, we don’t want to, but we want to facilitate circumstances. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] There are no proposals for this in the women's people's desire. Does it not matter to you that we have statistics in Austria for everything, but not in the area of abortion? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: My body belongs to me!]] Does it matter to you that we don't really know the motives and that's why we can't answer them well? Does it matter to you that not every woman concerned receives comprehensive advice in Austria? Mr Gamon has called for consultation today, and it does not seem to you that this is the case in Austria. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You want to get ahead!]] And does it matter to you that women in Austria feel left alone or forced to break down? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You want to get ahead!]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I wonder, Why did Kreisky say that the section should be made obsolete? I couldn't ask him any more, but maybe this has to do with him knowing that an abortion stops a beating heart. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You want to get the women out!]] In such a sensitive area, we want to highlight the well-being of people, of all people, and not make politics through ideology, as you suggest. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You want to get ahead!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You want to lead women!]] Our government and we as government parties stand for a women's and children's policy, in which no woman feels compelled by the circumstances for abortion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12097	The next item is Mrs Katharina Kucharovich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12121	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Nearly 500 000 people have signed the demand for women in Austria, nine demands for self-determination and equality for us. It is all the more embarrassing that there are politicians who have not signed it and who are still fighting today that there is this urgency, and that this urgency is not seen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we women do not want to and cannot wait any longer, especially when it comes to questions such as why women still deserve less than men, or why they still have to choose between child and job, or when women's advice and violence prevention are financially diluted, or when there is still the glass ceiling when it comes to leadership functions for women. It's enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In particular, it is sufficient when it comes to the promised maintenance guarantee for single parents and their children. In the 2017 election campaign, all parties promised, as part of the TV discussion, that there will be the maintenance guarantee. All were on the road with the yes sign, remember? Children and women are still waiting for this maintenance guarantee. And we know: Every fifth child in Austria is affected by poverty, and single-parent households are affected twice as often as two-parent households. This really means less social participation for children – keyword leisure activities, school trips. Austria is a rich country, and all political parties must finally look and acknowledge the urgent need for action. That's why with the maintenance guarantee, and now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to mention another point: Right of self-determination over one's own body. Time and again, conservative and reactionary forces feel like questioning, attacking and cutting women and our right to self-determination over one's own body. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to make one millimeter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We demand sexual education, we demand the right to abortion in all public hospitals, we demand access to free contraception. As it is high time to finally live real equality in many areas of life – in all areas of life – I have five motions for resolutions that are estimated by colleagues: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Show flags today, valued ladies and gentlemen, and give You are a back-up – you too of the government groups, you always say that you can agree to some of the points of women's desire! Do this for us women today, for women's rights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:35]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12484	The motions for resolutions referred to are properly tabled and are therefore also under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Melanie Erasim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12509	Estimated President! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear team of women's desire! Dear Seers! Mrs. Minister, you have asked the question so fluently before: After what have my predecessors done, and why has this not yet been implemented? – I would like to give you a little further help where Austrian society would be without women’s movement, without social-democratic women’s policy where you would be, where I would be without social-democratic women’s policy: I am sure that neither you would be a woman's minister or I would be a member of the National Council, but we both would probably sit at home with five or six children and judge the man's patches, so that everything would fit, because before 1975, before social democracy changed this into single government, neither the man was allowed to decide whether the woman should go to work or not. This change was one of the biggest milestones in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It goes further with the deadline, a very important issue on which you are now trying to shake. Rape in marriage was a cavalier's crime for a long time. The highly esteemed National Council President Barbara Prammer has been allowed to enforce the Violence Law, which was unique and a model throughout Europe and worldwide. The highly esteemed women's minister Doris Bures was able to increase the budget for women by 60 percent. Minister of Women Gabi Heinisch-Hosek has introduced mandatory income reports and Minister of Women Sabine Oberhauser has focused on women's health. Minister of Women Rendi-Wagner introduced the 30 percent quota to large listed companies – all the issues that would not have been implemented without social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have five more motions for resolutions. I can inform those who are too quick in advance: All requests are still granted to the committees as self-employed, at the latest then you can show the flag in the committees and in the deliberations. I submit the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I'd like to close with a quote. Johanna Dohnal said: A women's movement, which is not unpleasant, has no right to exist. – I would like to extend this saying: A woman's minister, who is not unpleasant and who puts party-political calculation before the rights and interests of women, has no right to exist. [[Abg. Belakovich: What? What? Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] [[Abg. Woeger: A whore!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Incredible, please!]] That is why I call on you to finally take action here. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: What does that mean if someone is deprived of the right to exist?]] [[15:41]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12876	The motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and will then be put to the vote. Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e12900	Dear colleague Erasim, I have said it before: Let us come to the facts from the emotions! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] I also find that cynicism has little place in the high house. [[Abg. Noll: But we must not let the government say that!]] I can also correct you – you should have listened to me –: I asked myself what my two predecessors have done about wage shears. We still have a paycheck of 20 percent. [[Abg. Erasim: The income report, for example, was an answer!]] – Then, at the end of this period of government, measure me to the facts and facts! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Erasim: I do!]] I would also like to thank you once again for the entire civil society commitment which has led to this and which will continue to lead to the establishment of measures and the creation of a political framework. I can also say one thing about this polemic with the seven children: My mother has six siblings, and my mother has neither her father nor my husband directed the patches, because in her and in my parents' house there was equality. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That's why: Equality begins at home. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13032	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now entering a number of votes. First of all, I should like to vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 513 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution on Women's Safety in Austria, which is annexed to the Committee's report 513 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 67) (run at the ÖVP: Go on!) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Kffr. Pfurtscheller, colleagues and colleagues on the continuation of the ‘Interministerial Working Group on the Protection of Women from Violence’. Who is in favour of this request? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 65) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of child care rights. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 66) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, Mr MSc (WU), Mr President, on the right of access to a childcare centre from 1st century onwards. ==References== Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on 'Women's People's Desire 2.0 - Legal Gender Rate for Electoral Lists'. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's People's Desire 2.0 – Linkage of public awards and promotions of equality activities in companies". Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on Women's Desire 2.0 – Enforcement of a Wage Transparency Act. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's people's desires 2.0 – commissioning a study on non-discrimination-free labour evaluation". Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on Women's Desire 2.0 – Objective Assessment of Work. Who's for it? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, and others, on measures to combat poverty in Austria through fair maintenance. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on 'Women's desires 2.0 – gender equality in capital companies and cooperatives'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues and colleagues on "Women's People's Desire 2.0 – Training and awareness-raising measures for police and staff of the BFA and the BVwG". Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on 'Women 'Volksbehren 2.0 - Fast and secure family integration'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's desires 2.0 – information on residence status'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's People's Desires 2.0 – existentary maintenance advance'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's People's Desire 2.0 – Commissioning a Child Cost Study". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's desires 2.0 – ensuring and financing sexual education'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on Women's Desire 2.0 – awareness-raising programmes on violence prevention and anti-violence training. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on women's desires 2.0 – girls and women's on the run. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's People's Desire 2.0 – the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's desires 2.0 – right to free, high-quality childcare'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's people's desires 2.0 – measures to improve compatibility". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on "Women's people's desires 2.0 – uniform, national quality standards for care and individual (early) promotion". Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on 'Women's People's Desire 2.0 – Prohibiting stereotyped representations in children's and youth media'. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's desires 2.0 – gender-specific reasons for escape'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on 'Women's People's Desire 2.0 – Shortening of working time with the aim of changing to a 30-hour week'. [[Abg. Wöginger: Schlaraffenland!]] Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Frauen*Volksbehren 2.0 - For a modern maintenance right'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on women's desires 2.0 – women's advisory services. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on Women's Desire 2.0 – Gender-sensitive Press Funding. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's People's Desires 2.0 – Free Pesticides'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on Women's Desire 2.0 – setting up a national advertising watch group. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's desires 2.0 – the adoption of pregnancy tests and contraceptions'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on 'Women's Desire 2.0 – Implementing abortions in public hospitals'. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. [[Abg. Wöger: The NEOS!]] – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on 'Women's People's Desire 2.0 – the extension of advice centres for violent girls, women and their children'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on 'Women's desires 2.0 – strengthening cooperation between authorities, courts and centres of violence'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[15:57:37]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on People's Demand (435 D.B.) ‘ORF without compulsory fees’ (587 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13351	This will be the item on the agenda 2. There was no oral reporting. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I wait a little until the level of attention increases again. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Thomas Drozda. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13390	Madam President. Federal Minister! Wherever he may be. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. According to the current annual report on the freedom of the press of reporters without borders, Austria is behind Norway, Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and a number of other countries in 16th place; we were in 11th place. Why is that so? Why did we slip five seats? We know that restrictions on freedom of the press and attacks on independent journalists always mean a development towards illiberal democracy; otherwise, not the only development in this direction. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Maybe interested You don't like the subject of illiberal democracy anyway, then you can [[Abg. Gudenus: When you're talking, it's not!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, it is so boring!]] They, of course, continue to chat and spread and raise the noise scene. We all know the alarm signals, for example from Hungary, where the government suggests what can be reported and where independent journalists are called liars in front of running camera. We are – and now it might be interesting, but be careful, Mr Rosenkranz – witnesses to a similar development in Austria. [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction SPÖ) Over there it is so restless! I can hear something! I think that's the SPÖ that's so restless!]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] If the media minister, who has now arrived, a moderator with the - - [[Unrest in the hall]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13466	Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a really long voting process, I know, but I still ask you to turn your attention back to the ORF people's desire and above all to the speaker who is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13481	Madam President. I start again with the minister of the media, the moderator, with the words: “This is a nonsense.” This is nothing but a derailment. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If Harald Vilimsky threatens running camera, an interview will have consequences, then this is nothing but a derailment. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] If the head of the board of the Foundation of the ORF, a former MP and vice chancellor of the Freedom Party, calls an interview – that is, this interview – a perverse one, this is a further derailment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] We also experience that derailments of this kind remain without consequences. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We note this in dealing with legal radicalism, in which the boundaries of political and human resistance are constantly and without consequences moved. This cross-border crossing cannot and must not afford politics and society, it must be democratic basic consensus and remain that journalism cannot be defamated, but can work freely and without pressure. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder:... no rules!]] For popular desire: The contributions of the experts in hearing were revealing, especially the situation in Denmark that has been frequently cited. Lasse Jensen, the former information director of the Danish radio, described this as follows: It started with attacks of judicial parties on public broadcasting; subsequently, the abolition of broadcasting fees and budget financing was decided in 2018. It is also interesting to note that this decision was taken by a majority in Parliament, unlike the other decisions that were common in the media sector in Denmark. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Danish Radio Budget has been reduced by 20 percent, and 100 million euros should be saved. We know these proposals, in particular from the FPÖ, which are proposals which the Minister of the Media has not been used to contradict. In Denmark, this means that from 2020 onwards, the TV channels will be reduced from six to three and three out of eight radio stations will be locked. Of the 3 000 employees of Danish broadcasting, 382 are being reduced, although the productivity of these employees has increased by 100 percent over the last 20 years. The real problems in the media sector are, by the way, just as unresolved in Denmark as we are. I only mention the keywords Google, Facebook, Netflix: the so-called digital tax is basically a bagatell advertising charge. That is why I would also like to put forward a motion for a resolution in the context of this hearing and the opinions of the experts. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[16:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13653	The application which has just been submitted has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Nehammer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13677	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the televisions! Part of this discussion today is the popular desire against the ORF's forced fees, so-called in popular desire. But to be able to actually light up the whole subject field, one more step needs to go back and ask: Are the fees actually the starting point of a discussion about a reorganisation of the media landscape in Austria in order to obtain the pluralistic media landscape in Austria, or do you not even have to look at the situation on the Austrian media market before? Dramatic changes take place, there is an incredible digital competition that flows into the Austrian media market and thus also leads to changes. I would also like to take the opportunity here to thank you, Mr Minister, and especially your team, for the challenge, together with the coalition partner, of illuminating, presenting and considering this new media market: What does it need for a strong, independent ORF? The need for strong, public-law broadcasting is that of this federal government, which is also to be found in the government programme. But the question is: What needs to be done by public-law broadcasting in this changed new media landscape? A few years ago, there was a completely different discussion – you will remember, Thomas – as there was still the big competition privately against public-law, since some of the private individuals who are on the move in the television sector were still very radical against public-law. [[towards Abg. Drozda]] Radio that it needs to be smashed. Today, the private people have also recognized that the real challenge is not the ORF, but the real challenge is Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Co. How do we meet this new digital challenge? Today, when one speaks with representatives of private television, but also with those of public-law broadcasting, one hears very quickly that the advertising market is falling dramatically, that there are major changes in the way capital withdraws from this area and invests in new ways of advertising. This also has a dramatic impact on public broadcasting, but also, of course, on private individuals. Who would have thought years ago that private will be willing to set up a joint marketing platform with the ORF to generate advertising revenue? Who would have thought that the radio about advertising revenue in the station family of public-law broadcasting is even gaining in importance? That is, we have dramatic changes in front of us. Now it's about asking: What does the ORF need in order to be able to offer a programme which on the one hand corresponds to the public service contract and on the other hand binds consumers? What new forms are there? Will television be the same as we are used to or know today, even if we already involve what Netflix and Co offer today? If you talk to representatives of the advertising industry, they say that the behaviour of their customers also changes dramatically, i.e. the wishes of the clients of the major agencies are changing, who want to have much more targeted advertising et cetera et cetera. That's why the old model television, the old model of public broadcasting, no longer manages to be the master of this competition. Therefore, I think it is right and necessary to think first of all about the issues of content: How do we set up public broadcasting? How can we inspire people from the topic of Austrian content? How do we offer a platform that artists from Austria can use to develop and represent themselves in an overpowering competition from neighbouring countries? – These are the real challenges. If you think about all these questions, and this is happening – not only through the big media survey and now in many, many follow-up discussions – then you find that at the end of the day the question of financing actually comes to an end. First of all, we must ensure that we make Austrian content available for the future, which will be available to all – such as private individuals – through sharing. And – and I really believe this is the responsibility of the legislator, who defines the framework conditions – we need to make the ORF fit for the challenge digitization. Let us talk about financing when we have done these homeworks! There are many models – not all who have no charge are illiberal democracies for God's will, that would be too much said, you know. [[towards Abg. Drozda]] Belgium is not an illiberal democracy, but still has no fees. One can look at the diversity, but one is clear, and this has also made it clear to the Federal Government: Public broadcasting also needs clear and good funding. We work together to ensure that the ORF will continue to exist in the future and that the ORF can meet the challenges in ten to 15 years in such a way that it actually makes an interesting programme for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13753	I call Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13774	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The popular desire to abolish the fees of fee-financed television has, of course, also given a deep insight into the positioning of the parties. You have to keep that up as a succus of this discussion. Of course, I am afraid of funding from the budget, because this is a massive attack on the independence of television, especially when I hear such interviews as yesterday with the top candidates of the liberals, who openly threatens to have the consequences if someone does not ask him pleasant questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There you can imagine what that means, when it is paid out of the budget, for the journalist or for the ORF, how they are then treated. [[Abg. Martin Graf: As the Schelm thinks...!]] So only yesterday's threat has actually said enough about what you're going to do and what you really want. This is not the first threat to press freedom. The President of the Foundation Council, when he was not pleasantly reported on Orbán, said that one third of the foreign correspondents would be deleted. All of this is threats to financing, and if we start to question this funding and finance the ORF from the budget, that is to say that we are putting it into practice. That is to say, one limits the independence of the editors, television and this medium. I think this is a very dangerous development because we are following the authoritarian tendencies already taking place in Hungary and Poland. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of JETZT]] The speciality of the whole thing: It happens through this federal government on all fronts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] The rule of law is one of three fundamental pillars. What happens to the rule of law? No more funds will be made available to prosecutors and judges. This is a massive attack on the rule of law. The second guarantee of democracy is freedom of the press. We heard: Financing the ORF from the budget is a massive attack on freedom of the press. Interview partners are constantly threatened by the liberals with the result that unpleasant interviews will lead to consequences. This is all a massive threat to freedom of the press. [[Abg. Gudenus: The SPÖ never did that!]] The third freedom you are attacking is, of course, Parliament: Associating non-competition committees, shortening assessment periods, all these are measures that call into question our liberal democracy and move it into an authoritarian system; whether you call it illiberal democracy, which does not exist at all, or authoritarian system. [[Abg. Belakovich: You never did!]] Of course, the fact that you think about your links to the right-wing radicals in this direction has shown up in this whole discussion. [[Abg. Belakovich: How is that in Wiener Neustadt?]] – Wiener Neustadt is a good keyword, because there you have welcomed the identities and said they can come to the town hall at any time. That is exactly your way of thinking, and with that you are endangering democracy. You are attacking the rule of law, you are attacking freedom of the press and you are trying to limit democratic practices here in Parliament. I think you're dangerous! [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] I now think you are a very dangerous threat to this liberal rule of law because of this discussion with the radicals and shackles that you have. [[Abg. Gudenus: Mass murderers Lenin!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We will do everything we can to oppose you, because I consider the now planned attack on the ORF to be a targeted action to limit free journalism in Austria. On the other hand, you have to act simply, because you are endangering democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13894	Mrs Principal. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e13915	Madam President! High house! I am now quite confused by this threat scenario, which Mr Wittmann has designed here. I am completely new to say that we have been able to afford the funds for the prosecutors and that they can no longer work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Ask the Minister of Justice for information!]] The fact that we live in authoritarian democracy is now quite modern. So authoritarian, you're obviously already when you make any decisions at all and don't just allow everything and let total laissez-fair go over it; but well, then it's authoritarian. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] Mr Noll rightly pointed out in the Committee that the issue of ORF should not be limited to financing, but that the issue is much larger. Now the focus is on financing, but it is about: What do we really need a public-law radio for? What is he supposed to do? Where are borders, possibilities? Do we really need this public value? In principle, I believe we agree on the right of existence of the ORF. As has been said, funding is just a question to be addressed. One must be able to discuss this without this being regarded as an attack on the ORF. A change to a tax financing or such from the budget does not immediately mean savings, because the type of financing does not yet state the amount of funds, nor is it the immediate elimination of the independence of the ORF, of public broadcasting. Finally, for example, many public tasks are paid out of the budget, and no one says that the courts are governmental courts or government authorities; they also operate independently. In the EU Member States, the system is shared in fee-financed against tax-financed, i.e. from public funds, financed by the budget. You need to find with the experts a fair, sensible model, especially due to the challenge of digitization, because it is really not quite clear that you can consume the ORF on the smartphone without fees, but from the TV device with fees. However, the focus is on the revision, the redefinition of the public service contract. It is about public value, which really is to penetrate all platforms as far as possible, of course also online. What's that? What do we understand by public order? What do we understand by this valuable public value? It is about independent, balanced, credible journalism, such information. It is a fact-of-the-art information that journalists are supposed to report, what is meant is to prepare, picture, and then leave opinion-making to the consumer. They should not unnecessarily emotionalize, manipulate and overly moralize. That's not her job. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I want you to picture what's going on. The consumers, especially those of the ORF, are quite enough to form an opinion. Of course, this also includes high-quality cultural, educational and entertainment content. This is a very important task that journalists have to do, which the ORF also has to do. Media are an indispensable part of democracy, they are not in vain referred to as fourth violence. They are the link between politics and the population. The media, as it were, translates politics for the people. In their exercise, freedom of the press applies. In its motion for a resolution, the SPÖ has just expressed its permanence, just as reporters without borders have now confirmed that we are down from 11th place to 16th place – the situation for the media is now only more sufficient and not good. What can be seen in this report by reporters without frontiers, for example: Burkina Faso and Papua New Guinea were pre-arranged, ahead of Italy, the USA and the Czech Republic. In these two exotic countries there are tortures in police custody, assaults by maroding militias on the streets and also on journalists are on the agenda. However, the two countries are in line with the freedom of the press in front of Italy, the Czech Republic and the USA. Austria has been rowed down. What does that tell me? What governments do these countries have? What is the motivation behind this ranking? I think we all know: These are countries that have right governments and which are to be punished. In this report the reporters without frontiers are not concerned with facts, this herun terrace from 11 to 16 is fact-free. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The ORF has press freedom as well as all other media. We or the citizens have freedom of expression in particular. These are two sides of a medal. This must also be accepted by Mr Wolf and should also be addressed in his "ZIB 2" interviews. Steiric liberal youth has the full right to make use of the means of political satire. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] She has the right to show a pair of costumes in positive connotation. She has the right to present the threat, by the way, with half moon and mosque. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It can use caricatures, which is a drawing irony, whose beings also belong to a certain exaggeration. But they didn't exaggerate it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If one forbids such a thing or puts it in the context in which Mr Wolf put it yesterday, then we are in the spirit of the Islamists against the Charlie-Hebdo-Redition. [[Abg. Lightness: That's the applause at the ÖVP!]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] They didn't like these satires, nor did they blow the editors into the air. Do we want such a thing? - I don't think so. The media have a very special responsibility in democracy, which I really want to appeal to. They must also be balanced. You can't create different standards. [[Abg. Lightenness: The speaking time is already over!]] When Jean-Claude Juncker says, on Wednesday after Easter, he is shot back – you can now find what you want, I think we all know who is half-formed, who said it when – there is no reaction in the media; when Salvini laughs with a gun and says: We defend ourselves, we are armed, then this is a huge mega-right-right scandal. These are different standards, and this is very bad. Similarly, when Marxist philosopher Jean Ziegler says that there is no violence in the political debate. [[Abg. Gudenus: Yeah, great, that's a red one, he's honored! Very good!]] He'll be hanged by you, the SPÖ, a medal, an order. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You wonder what standards you have. You should address all of this in your motion for a resolution. You don't. You can forget that with the reporters without borders. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: This is your attitude to press freedom!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, exactly, open the AZ again, then you can...!]] Mr Wolf said – and I conclude: “I believe [...] that a strong and independent ORF is really important for this country.” – Yes, we believe so, and it must be objective. This is really important, and if he sticks to it, the market shares that have disappeared in recent years will also be regained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14105	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14126	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! In fact, it is now about this popular desire, which, in the text, retained an irreplaceable abolition of the ORF fee in order to eliminate party-political influence. That was the basis, the basis, the starting point of this discussion. This does not correspond to our idea, I say now, because we need strong public-law broadcasting. This is important to us, because it also makes an essential contribution to the Austrian identity and offers a democratic platform. With its 95 percent reach, both television, radio and online, I believe that it fulfills this. The FPÖ goes even further in its call and wants the ORF to be financed by the State budget. What does this mean, ladies and gentlemen? – I cancel the fee and charge the taxes or our budget in addition to the fee to be paid to ORF? On the example of Denmark – just as we had in the hearing – we see that the debate was a very, very similar one, it was – we have already heard today – switched from funding for fees to financing by means of taxes. Lasse Jensen told us what this led to. As a result, there was a 20 percent reduction in the budget and 400 employees were released in the following year, at the same time as the announcement to halve the number of television stations and to reduce the radio channel from eight to five. If, for example, Danish radio now wants to have a charge increase, say a tax increase, more money from the government, what does it have to do? – He has to go to the government and ask if he can have more money. That this would fit in with you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I very much like that, because if the report of the ORF did not fit in the present form, then there would be no money from you, and for that we are not at your disposal. [[Abg. Stefan: What is he doing now? How does he do it now?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know very well that the Austrian media market is far too small to exist next to the German media market. The competition would not be given, the fees would be abolished completely, and we would be an attachment to the German media. Above all, ladies and gentlemen: The Austrian creative economy would be dead, because the ORF with its Austrian actors, camera crews, cutters and all those responsible for the passing of Austrian productions would have to go abroad. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, they should go to work!]] It would no longer be possible to finance this. We probably stand for further development of the fee. We do not oppose it, on the contrary, we have even put forward a concept for what it might be like. However, we are not available for budget financing, as is currently proposed by the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14188	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14209	Madam President. Mr Federal Minister, I was just wondering how you were talking about Mrs. Prince, who meant that these stickers of the liberal youth are political satire. So I understand something else under political satire. I find these stickers quite reckless and racist. It can also be seen as a political satire, that is the FPÖ. I thought that the ÖVP with the Federal Chancellor recently showed where there are certain limits. I also see this as a corresponding cross-border crossing. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: We are very interested!]] – Yes, Mr Gudenus, you are also unaware that you do not see it that way. I'll tell you something. I believe that what we have seen lately in the debate on the ORF is that we are constantly hearing intimidations from the FPÖ on the one hand and then from the ÖVP on the other. The Federal Chancellor once spoke of the ultimate form of misinformation reported by the ORF. We know the statements of chairmen of the Steger Foundation Council, we know the statements in principle of Harald Vilimsky. But yesterday it was very annoying for me. I'll tell you something. I am probably of the same opinion with you, since I too did not fully understand why Armin Wolf asks questions about these things without exception. I also thought Harald Vilimsky was invited to announce his vision in Europe, and I did not fully understand it either. I didn't understand all Armin Wolf's questions in this connection either, but I wouldn't get the idea in life, an independent journalist who asks me questions that I don't like and that I don't understand: This will result in consequences, just as you ask questions. – This is the border crossing that is so problematic. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I also believe that we can discuss the financing of the ORF for a long time. We as NEOS have already made different proposals very early. We have also said that we do not believe that the financing of fees is something, which is the case in the 21st century. ==References== You know: Being dependent on the device is something that is not quite logical. Consumer behaviour has become quite different, but I think that this can only be useful and serious if we agree on a consensus, namely that we want an independent ORF. To do this, we need to have a serious body reform. To this end, this principle must finally be abolished, that we send all party-political people into it. In Germany this works to a certain extent far better than with us. We must start by agreeing on this first and reaching a consensus that the ORF must be independent, party-politically independent, and that it must not be influenced and that there must be no political statements on this, in particular, because it will have consequences, and if we have agreed on it, we are happy to discuss the different forms of funding. Then, for example, we can also discuss whether it is financed from the budget. However, I tell you quite honestly, if your party’s leader candidate is in an “ZIB 2” interview and says that this will have consequences, then I think the possibility of budget funding is not particularly meaningful and effective, because then it is not guaranteed that you will not continue to try party-political access to the ORF. That's the problem. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Some of us at the consensus about a party-politically independent ORF and then discuss any form of funding! I like to be ready for everything, we can light everything, but it won't work.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14292	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Here you go, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14314	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! I wanted to speak briefly on this issue, because I believe that, when it comes to media policy issues, we are living in a time when it is extremely important to have the most factual discourse on the current situation. This factual discourse, especially when it comes to media, is not always there, unfortunately one must say that God. This not only has something to do with the political debate culture, but it has been noted there and there also in the past within the Austrian media landscape. I have often perceived the debate on media policy issues by the stakeholders as a certain misunderstanding, a bit like a counterpart, in which it was primarily about who got how much of the cake, and less about the question of what are the great challenges that all face together. The great challenge has been present for some time when we talk about digitization. She has in fact changed everything in the media sector, which was once fundamental consensus. If it was earlier, in the 1970s, the basic task of the public-law to provide each individual Austrian, each individual Austrian with information, because private individuals were unable to do so and it was also too expensive to provide the information, then of course this changed diametrically. Today, everyone can get information in abundance with their smartphone. The question is whether this is always the information that we feel is valuable as a democratic policy. If you are on Facebook, in your opinionary chamber, where you always get that played out, what friends share, what people like who are similar in opinion, then I think this is a whole, quite intense challenge of the future when it comes to the democracy policy discourse. I think it is extremely difficult to have a wide-ranging discussion when you move in social media and you always get to play what you think is right. And that's all the more difficult the more you do it. This makes differentiated opinion formation, differentiated judgment extremely difficult. But this is the basis for a liberal democracy, as we appreciate it, as we want to maintain it. For this reason, I believe that everyone must be aware that, at a time of absolute media convergence and global digitization, the task and the basic challenge of a public-law may have changed, away from a purely information medium to a verification medium. This applies from my point of view to all quality media, to all those who prepare information. It is very important that there is a second aspect, namely the plurality, that there is a widest possible media landscape with various contributions, with different nuances, with various reports. We stand by the still very well-functioning dual broadcasting system in Austria and want to receive it. I am firmly convinced that at a time of absolute digital media convergence, it is important to have a strong public-law. I even think you can say: If he does not yet exist, then one would have to invent such a construction, because only that will ensure that there is something like a guiding medium that also has independent funding and is not strictly dependent on the market to prepare the information in such a way that the discourse of democracy, together with a diverse private media landscape, is so enriched that one can make a critical judgment on the various facts. From my point of view, this is also the background of how we want to adapt the ORF law. Of course, it's perfectly clear that the current law contains things that are just before yesterday. If you are allowed to leave only seven days online in the online area, in the TV library, which is public-law content and which has been financed with a lot of fees, this is really ridiculous and has been abolished for a long time. However, it is also clear that the ORF will no longer see itself as a competitor to domestic private individuals – only in terms of information pluralism, but not in terms of advertising money – but it will need a joint effort to ensure that Austrian private media in the future will have the opportunity to come to advertising funds in digital space and thus also to be able to finance themselves economically. The problem is that in digital space hardly any Austrian medium has the opportunity to achieve profits because there is currently everything in the direction of Google, Facebook et cetera flows and the Austrian media space is perhaps too small to build up the data volume so that programmatic buying is even present in a volume that it also uses advertisers. The only ones that currently have very many possibilities are Google, Facebook et cetera. You have endless data from all of us, probably know more about all of us than our siblings, our parents, our partners, and thus make a lot of money. The Austrian media do not have such a large data collection. In this, I believe, there is a springing point: that it must be possible to establish also within Austria's common data marketing platforms. Due to its reach, the ORF plays an essential role. He is not allowed to do so right now, because it is prohibited by law. In general, I believe that media cooperation must become possible when it comes to data marketing, because only in the long term will it be more likely that private media will finance themselves on the digital market and that there will be a pluralistic, diverse dual media landscape in the future. These are the basics we want to go to in the current ORF law. This is the debate that I believe is very important. I would also like to thank you for the contributions that have partly been very relevant in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14377	I call Mr Androsch. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14398	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Advisors! Mr Federal Minister, you have just mentioned this: A reform of public-law broadcasting needs a wide range of views, a broad look at the topics that are important to address in the 21st century. ==References== I'm perfect with you. We currently have a wave of digitisation, which sets a high pace and demands that we act quickly and face the new challenges. That's not a question. Only, the solution to all that you have addressed can not only be the abolition of the GIS fee, but we need a thematic discussion about how we want to shape public-law broadcasting in the future and create strategic for the future. And we don't lock this either. Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen, one thing has to be kept in advance: The discussion in the ORF yesterday, which has already been discussed today, with the EU's head candidate of the FPÖ in the joint dispute discourse with Armin Wolf has, of course, already brought a lot of attention. If it were the first time, you could say: Okay, this has happened, this discussion has run into the heat of the fight once. All of this may already be, but it also has a strategy that is in the background. You can't forget that! [[Call at the FPÖ: What should be a strategy?- Oh, my God!]] I only recall back to September 2018 – that makes us all so skeptical – when the Minister of the Interior then brought his media release to the police his proposal, which according to one is to communicate with critical media only to the extremely necessary extent. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Yes, that is unpleasant for you, I understand perfectly. This is exactly one of the problems, one of those things that make it so difficult to discuss democracy with you. It makes it so difficult because it disturbs democratic development. This is not the first time there has been an attack on the media. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yesterday he only continued: clear, more visible, in front of the running cameras, audible for all of Austria. And we don't want to. Therefore, a budget funding for public broadcasting is of course to be seen critical, because, if he needs money, he needs to pilger well to the Federal Government, become a good introduction and say: I need more money, I need to finance this and that. That's what they say: Well, if you don't ask the questions we want, there'll be less money. That's how it works. That is why we saw very clearly yesterday how the system works. [[Deputies Gudenus and Rosary:And the SPÖ has no experience with that?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - I understand. Yes, yes, the SPÖ has no experience, you have made it clear to us. The experience of the SPÖ with such an approach to democratic means – I tell you – has existed since this new federal government existed. Since then, we know how you deal with democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing how we are repositioning in public broadcasting, but we are not discussing financing the ORF from the budget. [[Abg. Neubauer: Why does the core have the ORF...?! He didn't go either!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is at risk from you, and there is a need to be careful when it comes to the media. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14493	I call Mr Noll. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14514	Madam President. Minister! If Karl Nehammer were still here as the media speaker of the ÖVP, he could at least be grateful that I could have signed almost everything he said here. Before we do not agree on what is meant by public-law broadcasting, what it is worth for Austria, what we expect from it, it is indeed absurd to decide what means we are going to use to achieve this very objective. I am therefore also very glad that this popular desire is almost finished, as you say so beautifully. That's all there is to say. By the way, I believe that the duty of discussion by Mrs Scherak and Mr Wittmann's speeches has been done. I do not want to go about further convictions of things that cannot be justified, but two things are already important to me. You, Mr Minister, have a bit of a problem of credibility, because on the one hand you ask for a matter of fact and a certain freedom of prejudice. But like a mantra, you'll bear in mind that it can't be a budget levy. This is a prejudication of the discussion process, which then also makes other opinions from you appear to be credible than not exaggerated. It is not the prejudicial discourse that will be proclaimed here, but it is against the background of the current political situation and what we have heard from the FPÖ over and over again towards ORF, a politically-run process in which you have a certain role to play. There you should not pretend to be completely prejudiced solely by the objective solution. The SPÖ – which I say quite clearly – also has a certain credibility problem. For many decades, the SPÖ has not stopped using the ORF as its own government post and as a means of power. This does not make various calls, which are now aimed at the independence of the ORF, particularly credible either. This is a fact in a country where the topic of ORF does not go completely without excitement and nervousness. I would like to say one last word because it is important to me personally: For me, it is a fundamental and general difference whether someone like Minister Blümel says in a live discussion: This is stupid, or if someone like Vilimsky says yesterday: That'll have consequences. Those who do not see this difference are either really malicious or of little understanding. Mr Androsch said: If the FPÖ sends us threats – from colleagues Steger to Vilimsky last night – the objective discussion about the importance of public-law broadcasting in this way and the ÖVP is not yet ready to lose a word about it and it can be liked that its coalition partner is missing the common public, democratic and media-political discussion process in this way, then I do not see a particularly rosy future for what is being started here with good reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14562	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerstl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14584	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a constitutional speaker, it is first of all important for me to highlight the instrument of popular desire and the number of support – I think it has not yet emphasized anyone. We have a new legal regime, which has been in force for over a year, which allows people's desires to be supported online and that one can no longer only go to one's own municipal office, where people's desires may be supported, but one can also sign a popular desire at the place where you work or at the resort. This has clearly led to more support for popular desires than in the past. I looked at this evaluation of how it developed. We can now support popular desires not only in the municipal offices, but also online. The share of online support is about one third of all signatures, with all three popular desires that we have had in recent times. As far as the support in the municipal offices is concerned, we can assume that a certain part of it has certainly not taken place at the local office, but also at other municipal offices. Therefore, we can very much appreciate that the proportion of people who sign today has increased by 50 percent compared to the popular desires that have been expressed earlier. I would just like to say that so that we can also know how to include the people's desires accordingly. I can thus come to this specific popular desire and thank the initiators of this popular desire for taking up an important issue. The media landscape – as media minister Blümel said earlier – is in a break. The media landscape therefore needs new answers today. It is therefore clearly too short to think only about whether to abolish a fee or whether to keep it. Rather, it is about breaking our heads as we manage to ensure the ORF's mission for Austria in principle. Our ORF law states that as regards the public-law core mission, we must ensure “the promotion of Austrian identity in the perspective of European history and integration”. We can no longer only ensure this promotion by means of the ORF. We must therefore make our laws much wider, because we are not being attacked within Austria, just as the SPÖ has tried to claim, but by foreign media giants. We have media giants on the market that put us under pressure. This is about the social media, but it is also about the major media companies in Germany, the UK, America and the Cetera. The great task is to face it. To do this, we need to stand together much more in Austria and bring together cooperations between the ORF and the private channels. I would also like to thank our Minister for the media that he has taken this very direction, which assures us an Austrian content, the public value for Austria in the future. A very special thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14629	I call Mr Tschank. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14650	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps very briefly on political influence, as was mentioned earlier by Mr Noll: The SPÖ really has to take its own nose, so to speak. I can remember that a few years ago, Pelinka junior, who was a member of your group of friends in the Foundation Council Group, was supposed to be inthroned as the head of the office of Director-General Wrabetz. A much stronger intervention with regard to party policy is almost impossible, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Androsch.]] I would like to thank the Austrian Christian Party for this initiative in advance, also for the initiation of a popular desire that has supported some 320 000 citizens, a popular desire that calls for the abolition of the ORF penalty fees and today for the discussion on this issue. The central question is, of course, whether the ORF fees, as they are designed today, are in the 21st century. ==References====External links== This is not a discussion that only we have here in Austria, but it is a discussion that is being held throughout Europe. You know that a good part of the European countries has already discussed and already implemented alternative solutions to the issue of fees. The ORF has lost around half of its market shares in Austria over the last 20 years. In 1998 it was still 61 percent, and in 2018 only more than 30 percent. Even more frightening is the fact that the ORF has lost market shares, especially in young people, as the market share is well below 30 percent. It must therefore be noted that the ORF has lost youth, and this is a very, very dramatic development. It shows that many things in the ORF are no longer up to date and he can simply and simply can't keep up with the competition. We want to change that, ladies and gentlemen. If fewer and fewer citizens consume the ORF, I understand, of course, that many – with lower market shares – say: Why should I be forced to pay fees if I no longer use this programming? That is to say, there is full understanding from our side of this view of the citizens of Austria. Let us take a brief look at the question of credibility in political reporting in the ORF, because we know from surveys that this is also a central point for the users of the ORF, why they sometimes turn away from this ORF. In an OGM survey for the “Kurier” of March 2018, 10 percent say that reporting is very objective, 33 percent say it is more objective, and 57 percent doubt objective political reporting. Recently, another survey, the March 2019 Sora survey, asked the parties whether ORF journalists in social media should express their personal opinion on Austrian politics or if possible not comment. Ladies and gentlemen, a surprise: 53 percent want journalists not to give personal opinions. People don't want to be taught, they want to form their own opinion. What do the spectators expect? – Balance, objectivity, diversity of opinions. Now I'm asking She's quite honest: Do you believe what you have seen in recent years that the ORF is currently fulfilling? [[Abg. New builder: No!]] For example, we have had to experience in Tyrol in the country elections, as the ORF simply cut out in the report a clarification by the FPÖ summit candidate against anti-Semitism and thus assumes that there would have been nothing against anti-Semitism. [[Abg. Schimanek: Exactly!]] Brigitte Handlos, chronicle-chefin of the ORF, expresses her hope in a Twitter post with Andreas Babler that soon there will be a time after Brief, Kickl, Hartinger-Klein, Fäsmann and Co. [[Abg. Gudenus: A terrible person!]] There we have an Armin Wolf who unabatedly reveals his political views and opinions on his private Twitter account. In public perception, I must say, this is no longer very far from Jan Böhmermann. This is the case, of course, and the interview, ladies and gentlemen, is ultimately due to compliance regulations within the ORF, which are not fulfilled at all in principle – or partly not to be fulfilled, because of course not every ORF journalist must be held hostage, but it is a certain group that simply does not do so. It seems that the structure is not sufficiently concerned with this hygiene and the implementation of these rules of well-being. That would not be possible in any other international media house, neither at CNN nor at BBC, and that is the real scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: You know that!]] It is really difficult to convince citizens that they have to pay forced fees for this. Finally, the issue of fees is also a social one. Why should people of different categories of income always pay the same amount to GIS fees? The customer pays an average of 300 euros a year, regardless of whether tile managers, teachers or bank directors. A staggering by income level would be fair, the GIS fee in the present form is simply not social. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. In the end, our task as a people's representative is to achieve the best possible will of citizens on the ground of the rule of law. Only in March 2019, in an OGM survey, 52 percent voted for the abolition of compulsory fees. I'm looking for you: Let's take this seriously, let's not ignore it! Let's go with time, let's not look back into 20. But we are working together to find a solution that is viable and also ensures the independence of the ORF! [[Abg. Noll: But not with the FPÖ!]] As happened in the past with the Red Radio, ladies and gentlemen, it is not supposed to run in the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14763	Mrs Yildirim is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14785	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “I hear the message well, I alone lack faith,” said Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. There is a fundamental right to freedom of the press, and this is a good thing in a democracy. It is the task of the media to communicate, comment and, if necessary, criticize what the government is doing, but also the opposition, and what is going on in politics. This may not always be pleasant, but it is a central contribution to the functioning of democracy. That's why independent media are so important. Let's remember what happened in the past few months. The FPÖ vice chancellor has accused the ORF of lying. He had to withdraw it, but the damage was already done, ladies and gentlemen. Interior Minister Kickl no longer wanted to serve unloving media with information. The National Police Directorates have been held almost to block information from critical media. Mrs Prince, Maschek's critical satire contributions are repeatedly removed from the TV library. Should this be the future: that the government is allowing unloving contributions to be removed? [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] Yesterday, the FPÖ Secretary-General threatens to send an ORF editor in a live broadcast – I do not mention the name of the editor at this point – with consequences, because the interview was not pleasant. [[Abg. Rosary: That was Mr. Vilimsky – ah no, Wolf!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That wasn't an interview, that was an interrogation!]] These are attacks on freedom of the press and thus attacks on democracy. [[Abg. Rosary: No, you didn't understand!]] This will permanently cross red lines. All the alarm bells have to shrill – right! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] This shows us that Austria no longer has a white vest. Last week, the international human rights organisation criticised reporters without borders – which you, Mrs. Prince, are so devaluing – that freedom of the press in Austria has deteriorated alarmingly. Austria was reclassified by five places within a year. [[Abg. Belakovich: But Burkina Faso is so good!]] The intention to convert the ORF from a fee to a budget financing or a voluntary contribution is to try to take the ORF to the short line. To abolish fees sounds good at the first moment, but let's not be fooled. Yes, to a reform that strengthens the independence of the ORF. Yes, to a further development, Mr. Federal Minister, because the media landscape is changing. If the State finances this from the budget, however, there is a risk that the government will also indicate what may be sent: If the ORF is not good, the money will be reduced. Let us continue to pay the ORF fees, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we are left! If you don't leave us anymore, we have a state radio. Let us stand up for independent media and defend freedom of the press as the central value and foundation of democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14873	Mrs Baumgartner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14905	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the ORF law is intended to make one of the country's most important media secure in the future and to align it so that it is clear how the ORF can and must fulfil its social mission. The ORF not only complies with its mission in the central television programmes, radio programmes and for some years now also online, but above all – and this is especially important to me – in the regional programmes. Only the ORF offers villages, cities and countries this extensive opportunity to present the diversity of our different regions. Everyone finds their part of Austria in these formats. No German or Austrian private station offers regional broadcasts in this variety. The special features that make up Austria, the people, the different landscapes, the culture, the cuisine – these are worth showing, for example when a marathon takes place in the Wachau in Grafenegg. Reports on exhibitions and documentation are broadcast. To show people the how and why, that is expected. The must-carry regulation adopted today in the Council of Ministers strengthens the presence of the Austrian programmes, and this leads to the safeguarding of Austrian content. The increase of the private broadcasting fund to 20 million euros a year, which has also been decided today, is intended to make an additional contribution to the Austrian media location. Identity, regionality, individuality, information and entertainment, people in Austria appreciate that. The mother-language programs of the different groups of people or the two-channel options are also highly appreciated in many series and films that are gladly used by our youth – I can only talk about my sons who watch very many films in English. These are single-setting features and offers that are available only on Austrian public-law channels. The Landesstudios also present their federal states in central programs, from “Bundesland today” to “Experience Austria”, with a variety of culture, sports and social events, or reports on regional events, so that the Austrians are informed internationally, nationally, but also regionally about what is moving the world, what is happening today, whether in Washington, in Brussels or in the neighbouring community. For all of this, the new ORF law should form the basis in today's new media landscape. The clear objective is to be cooperation rather than competition to strengthen Austrian media houses against international online companies. We face serious challenges. The media are increasingly under pressure, for example in connection with advertising revenue and the changing usage habits. It is important to respond here so that the online offers of the ORF can keep up with the Internet giants of the world. Also the TV library contributions, which are often and gladly used by people, are included. The revision of the ORF law is a reform that is important. The independence of the ORF may, and will not be called into question by this reform. This is what our Federal Minister, Gernot Blümel, and not only he, has also held down Finance Minister Löger and our Federal Chancellor. My colleague Karl Nehammer has already pointed out: It is important to talk about funding, but it is safe that funding should be guaranteed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e14960	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 587 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of him to give an appropriate sign. - That's the unanimity. Accepted. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Drozda, colleagues and colleagues, on the strengthening of freedom of the press in Austria by means of a strong, independent public broadcasting system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Not accepted. [[17:04:16]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 321/A(E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on the optimization of the organizational structure of the Austrian Federal Museums (570 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on amendment 553/A(E) by Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda, colleagues on the introduction of a free Sunday of the museum (571 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Culture on the proposal from Mr Josef Schellhorn, colleagues on the archiving of digital archives of the highest federal institutions by the State Archives (572 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15045	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15073	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Ladies and gentlemen in the House, can you remember when we discussed the last bill on art and culture in the narrower sense here in the House? - Me neither. [[Call:No]] There is no one in the last 15 months since the new government was working here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, at least we have the opportunity to discuss requests made by the opposition parties at the last committee meeting. There were 13 applications; ten of them were postponed, over three we can talk about today and here. Two of them have been put by us. As you can recall, former Minister of Art and Culture Drozda has produced a White Paper on the Federal Museums, which includes very, very good reform proposals from experts. We have taken this White Paper on the occasion of writing a request which is very specific to our ideas. This was about optimizing organisational structures and business processes at the federal museums, strengthening the ownership role, establishing an independent expert body to advise the owner, and establishing a long-term master plan with the national council. This request was rejected, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, Federal Minister Blümel presents an alibi reform and a post increase, for it is once again – one marvel! – a Secretary-General fell from heaven, and a Shared Service GmbH is proposed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] One of the experts who prepared this White Paper, the former museum director Köb, speaks of a “unscrupulous decision that totally ignores the white paper’s findings” and calls the new Secretary-General an “alibi job”. Much is unclear with this new Secretary-General. What is he supposed to do? What skills does he get? What collaborations? How does cooperation with the participation management of the resort look like? Which specific tasks will the Shared Service GmbH perform? – All these questions remain open. Fix, however, is the salary of the new Secretary-General. Once again, a lot of money is paid, in addition to the already 10 million euros that are spent on Secretary-Generals in the Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Plessl: Saving in the system!]] Instead of taking care of a content strategy to improve the coordination of museums, instead of taking care of how the strategic role of the federal government is strengthened according to the laws of New Public Management rather than working in terms of content, costs are created which were not foreseen in the White Paper at all. There is still much to do with the federal museums. Remember the collective contracts: We don't have them until today! There's a lot of money being paid for a Secretary-General, over 100,000 euros, and some employees, some of them working in the Federal Museums at 6 euros per hour – a scandal, as I mean. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] But it was not only rejected this request, but also our request regarding the free Sunday of the museum was simply erased from the table. Federal Minister Blümel presented the Federal Museum Card. This is again a measure on the headline agenda of the turquoise-blue Federal Government. What sounds so charming is, in fact, a mogel pack. What's this about? – It is about one entry into the eight federal museums once a year and only at the main house. There are already a lot of museums and museums. This is wonderful for tourists who want to get an overview quickly, but that was not the target group. The target group was the Austrians, whom we want to attract more and more to our federal museums with a good offer. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] This required much more and better opportunities. We as social democracy are mainly concerned with bringing those who are not so well placed financially to bring them to the museums, for which it is not natural that they go there, because their access is simply not given so. We want to address them. Of course, the museum Sunday would offer a wonderful opportunity, but that was simply rejected. There are many international examples of how this can happen well and well-qualifiedly. Ladies and gentlemen, access to art and culture is essential, not only from an educational perspective, but also in order to reflect on social challenges – and we truly have enough of them – and to keep a mirror on us. Whoever is obviously not interested in this is the Federal Government, which has simply rejected our request, as already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15149	Mrs Großbauer has spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15171	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen Hammerschmid, I can only very clearly contradict you on all points, but perhaps in a row. On the two requests made by Mr Drozda on the Free Museum Sunday: Yes, free, free, free, that the SPÖ would seem to have preferred everywhere. [[Abg. Vogl: But was already a demand from you!]] But they forget something essential, for the saying: What costs nothing is worth nothing!, unfortunately, only too often. [[Abg. Vogl: To abolish school book action? A dictatorship of the school book...!]] How do you, above all, want to convey to young people that art and the work of artists is worth something if everything is free for everyone? How do you want to create a social awareness of the social situation of artists if you think everything should always be free? Then I can count on you as follows: A free museum Sunday would mean a loss of revenue for the Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library from 8.6 to 11.4 million euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In addition, suggest Sunday: Talk to the museum directors and let them tell you what's going on on Sundays there! Maybe you've been to Albertina once on a Sunday. So if we put more people into the museums on Sunday, they will probably no longer be able to see pictures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Free is only the income tax for the farmers, but... Problem!]] Of course, the access of as many Austrians as possible to our cultural establishments is of great concern to me. This should be possible and promoted as early as possible, and it has already been and is already done a lot. There has long been free entry for children and young people under 19 into all federal museums and the National Library, which is a great success. There are also discounts for young people under 26, for seniors, for cultural passers-ins, there are the long night of museums and there is the new Federal Museum Card. Mrs Hammerschmid, the Bundesmuseen Card is a very intelligent card, because of course existing, well-functioning annual maps of the individual museums are not to be countercared, but it should be an additional offer and also an incentive to visit a different museum once. Fortunately, this Federal Museum Card, introduced by our Federal Minister Blümel in December, has been very well accepted, it has already sold over 2,000 cards. On the organisational structure of the Federal Museums: Yes, the White Paper, which Mr Drozda designed when he was Minister, was certainly a basis for the current optimization of the organisational structure by our current Federal Minister Blümel. However, your White Paper, Mr Drozda, did not provide a basis for decision, because it simply failed to feed with figures, facts and figures. This is an important aspect, because it is a matter of tax money anyway. Federal Minister Blümel has now done this and made his decisions when he also had an objective basis for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Thus, a clear appreciation of the Bundesmuseenconferencing by means of a legal anchorage and in addition to the establishment of the Bundesmuseen-Service-GmbH. Mr Hammerschmid, if you do not yet know: Yes, the Bundesmuseen-Service-GmbH is also set up for strategic planning and coordination. It will enter into force with January 2020. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Generally speaking, it can be said that the federal museums have been writing a true success story since about 20 years ago, and it is not all bad, even if the SPÖ is trying to present it in this way. You yourself should know that the Federal Museums have just had a very successful year. In 2018, an increase of 15 percent was recorded compared to the previous year. One had 6.4 million visitors, seven out of eight institutions recorded a plus. The Albertina managed to cross the one-million visitor brand for the first time this year, with an increase of 27 percent – that is, if this is not a success! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stefan.]] Mr Hammerschmid, because you are wondering what the Minister is doing: For example, the Minister has already made a sensation. Since I spoke to the Albertina: The Essl family has their part of the collection, which is 40 percent, which Albertina and thus the collections of the federal government are given. This is one of the biggest gifts to the Republic of all time, more than 1 300 works of art with a value of over 90 million euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to thank the Directors and our Federal Minister for this very valuable solution for the Federal Museums. In general we have many museums in Austria, 742 in all of Austria, we do not only have the Federal Museums in Vienna. The museums in Austria are generally also an economic factor. They employ over 9 000 people, frequented by 19 million visitors. As a special example, I would like to highlight the city of Krems in Lower Austria, which could at last double its number of visitors with nine museums. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] But museums also have great economic value in addition to being employers, because every invested museum euro brings EUR 1.80 in value added. This resulted in a total performance of over 2 billion euros in value added in 2016. Finally, I would like to make the following appeal to you again: Take your time, go best with your children in one of the many museums! You can wake up a lot and discover art offline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15279	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15300	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mr Großbauer spoke of a great success earlier, of at least 2,000 tickets sold within five months. I think you'll get more in at the opera ball than at 1.7 million visitors to the KHM. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This Federal Museum Card, you have to admit, is a pure pipe-creper and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It has not brought anything, nor does it do anything, because it has been misplaced, and we discussed it at the time in the Committee on Culture. But I am very happy about one point. We have gathered three agenda items into a discussion, and of course this is one of great importance and, I believe, valuable. Therefore, I would like to thank Mr Taschner and the other political groups for having passed through the state archive this NEOS request concerning the archiving of digital archives of the highest federal institutions that this was a unanimous decision. Especially in these days, I think this is particularly important. [[Congratulations with NEOS and NOW.]] We have great responsibility there. However, since there are people who do not feel this responsibility themselves, Mr Rosenkranz, and always deny that they have said or written something unacceptable, it is important that these Tweets or these statements, including those of you – if, for example, a rat poem or a tradition rather than migration – be archived that they are handled with care, for if someone knows that his statements are archived, he will hopefully be aware of this when speaking or writing. So archiving is a real step because it makes us more careful. Your group has to hear border crossings every day, namely in the saying and in the confession. I mean, it's particularly important that we also understand this digitally, that we get it in digital form for the afterworld. It also works with Trump, so it should work with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] He doesn't hold on to it. I do not believe that a change of consciousness will occur in you, but one thing will happen: that we all know what you have said, and that this will be archived. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] That also hurts our reputation. This is damaging to our reputation – not only to the Austrians but also to the world out there. If the Federal Chancellor is in "Politico" because of this rat poem on page 1, this is particularly harmful for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That you don't feel anything about it, I wonder. I am surprised that the ÖVP still holds out that the economic operators are holding out how you deal with the reputation of Austria. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Noll.]] [[Abg. Deimek:... I don't know!]] At point three, free access, I disagree with Mr Hammerschmid: It's true, but with an opening on Sunday, open the museums only for the tourists. I think we need a different commitment to art and culture. Then it could work as in fact Modern in England, that you have free access and paid only for special exhibitions. However, there is also a need for other budget facilities of the museums. What we have done in the past is that we have saved in art and culture, so that the scientific work had to be scraped back. [[Abg. Rossmann:... rather save!]] The budgets have not been valorised or fattened. The museum directors also suffer from this. This is the problem of the museum directors of the Federal Museums, they say: I can't carry out my scientific work anymore, I can't fulfill this federal order anymore! – On the other hand, it needed a different commitment to art and culture. To bring them closer to the population, we could say: Okay, we're generally free entry. – But, as has already been said, it needs a completely different equipment of the federal museums. I, of course, agree with Mr Hammerschmid on the question of the organisational structure. That is a reluctance to use a Secretary-General, so to speak. I would like to recall Edelbert Köb's statement here. What is happening here is party-politically wanted, it happens instead of putting your finger in the wound and putting it on the problems that it is about. It is a matter of coordination, of sound common solutions. It is a point of common concern to solve the problems – collections and exhibitions – about solving them together, among the directors of the Federal Museums, but not through a secretary-general who is politically motivated. That's why we're against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15393	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15415	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn, the poem, as stupid as it was and as bad as it was, I firmly reject it. But what I also reject is a disparity between people who choose the FPÖ and are generally simply called rats – what has happened in the past, what has happened from the SPÖ and what there has been no call in Austria at all. I do not understand this disparity between these different divisions which I both reject. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Duzdar and Mr Vogl.]] I would have ten different photos today that I could show you all on those who said when. [[Abg. Lindner: Show it here!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Why...?]] – I don't do this because it doesn't keep us going. I'll give you all the right. You have to take a measure of this in order to work it out. But I'm really looking for equal treatment for all kinds of statements. Mrs. von der SPÖ said today to Mrs. Minister that she had no right to exist. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I've been surprised that you don't get an order call for it! A minister, a human being is not supposed to have a right to exist here in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Duzdar:... was about the political function!]] – So that’s really not all right! You really should re-adjust yourself a little. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Hammerschmid, you have previously complained about a wide range of shortcomings in the Federal Government. I ask you: For eleven years, this Republic has had a Minister of Culture – where was the SPÖ and has negotiated the corresponding collective agreements over the past 11 years? [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] They left me, Mrs. Colleague! I don't know where you were, but the fact is that they didn't happen – and that in an 11-year period! Let us return to the NEOS request: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is about protecting and preserving the cultural heritage in Austria – yes. It is a matter of taking the protection and conservation of cultural heritage seriously. That is why we must act accordingly. In Upper Austria, for example, this responsibility has already been assumed. Years ago, it began to digitize the country's cultural heritage so that it is actually secured for today, for tomorrow and for our descendants. This digitization is a good way to ensure the preservation of the cultural heritage. If politicians, as Mr Schellhorn has already mentioned, make certain comments – whether they are posted on Facebook or Twitter or in another social network – then this is actually to be collected for the afterworld. This also has the charm that this can then be collected objectively and can no longer be interpreted. That's how it has a historical meaning. That is why we are happy to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15499	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15520	Madam President. Minister! Mrs Großbauer, to the saying that what is free is not worth anything: Do you know, for example, that schools, universities and all schools are free and worth something? [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. Lindner.]] Do you know that the museums are just as educational institutions as the schools are? – You may not know that because you have in mind these educational institutions, the museums, probably rather than tourist milk cows. In fact, I believe that the development is unfortunately also going in this direction. But even if you would like to have the tourists so to speak on the figures in the museums, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government factions, could have accepted our proposal of an annual map that would have been expensive accordingly, so that tourists who are here for two or three days would not afford it, but people who like to go to the museums, very well – similar to the annual map of the Vienna lines. Let me come to another topic, which I have been addressing here in the House for 14 years and where I am now slowly not sure whether I was right with the experts outside: It is about the subject that the cultural-historical archives, the museums are becoming more and more mixed acts, because they all collect the same and exhibit the same – that is, something. This popularity, ladies and gentlemen, is a new one every year. Recently, there was a goya exhibition at the Belvedere, the Leopold Museum and the Kunsthistorisches Museum. In the Albertina, the graphic works of Bruegel were shown in 2017 a year before the large exhibition in the Art History Museum. We have four federal museums that collect contemporary art, but there is a cultural historical museum missing. That all four of these Federal Museums collect the same for contemporary art, I found out because of a parliamentary request. They collect works of the same 63 artists, and three of the four collect works of the same 163 artists. Not enough that these four collect and exhibit the same, also the Art History Museum exhibits contemporary art. The Maurizio Cattelan exhibition will be opened in one and a half hours at the Kunsthistorisches Museum. The Natural History Museum has also moved on to this branch and also in the Technical Museum we occasionally see art. No one's going to blame me for anti-art. What I want out is the following: There is watering down, and this popularity naturally leads to a competition between the museums in the same area. That's totally unnecessary. This irrigation is also supported by you, Mr Minister, if you, for example, allow the Albertina to integrate the Essl Collection. Mrs. Großbauer, who violates the law, who violates § 13 of the order of the museum. Mr Minister, your argument, which you have made here and also in the Committee on Culture: What interests me is the law, the main thing, the Albertina is economically successful, in terms of numbers of visitors!, I actually find quite annoyed and superfluous. They are committed to complying with the law. They also assume responsibility with this operation in so far as the museum's order then becomes dead at all and freestyle continues and is blessed. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly I ask myself: In view of this policy, in view of the lack of willingness to reform, who needs an additional post, a job at the highest level in the museum area, which is neither equipped with rights nor obligations? – I don’t know if this is a bad cultural policy; I don’t think it’s at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15568	The Federal Minister has now spoken. - Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15595	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a few words to the last saying: If you look at the figures, you have to find that the distribution of the federal museums has undoubtedly been a success story. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Anger.]] We hurry from one visitor record to the next. In the statements of the opposition Members I have heard now, it is as if everything were bad. – Apparently, it can't be that way. Mr Zinggl concluded by saying that the museums were also educational institutions. – They will probably only be able to fulfill the mission if people go too, because from a distance it becomes more difficult, especially since it is precisely about immediacy in art. This mediation is most likely to occur when many people go. As there are visitor records, this is obviously well implemented. I therefore do not understand your apocalyptic presentation of the collection orders and believe that a lot of good work is done, and thank the directors of the Federal Museums. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Angerer and Mr Bösch.]] Of course, this does not mean that one can rest on these successes. I was also more often at the conference of the directors of the Federal Museums. We have discussed intensively the direction in which the cooperation of the museums is to develop. There are many ideas, but often it has failed because the question was asked: Who's putting this into practice now? All have finally seen: In the shared service area, there are needs and possibilities of cooperation when it comes to deposit planning, for example, when it comes to perhaps building a common ticketing. The challenge was always the question: Well, uh, a good idea, but who's doing it now? That was one of the essential aspects that we took up when we carried out the analysis of the White Paper. There were many different ideas, good ideas, but it is also stated in the White Paper itself that there is no basis for decision, because there are no figures at all. We have developed this further in the past year and have also raised figures through intensive questions and thus achieved comparability in what action would bring what effect. For this reason, the development of the Federal Museums, which has already been presented, with a joint Bundesmuseen conference and a service-gesmbH including, with a secretary-general and a few employees, who need to carry out this strategic management of the implementation of shared services. It was very important for me not to lose sight of three basic principles in this further development, namely, that the financial resources released by shared services should, of course, flow into the core tasks of museums. There are calculations that this will be approximately in the single-digit million range if it is fully expanded. Secondly, It needs clarity and planning security, because the directors, of course, want to continue their work successfully. It was also very important to me that there was no interference in the content or scientific work. We may have a slightly different understanding of interpretation. We all adhere to the laws. However, it is very, very important that the successful work can also be continued. As you have addressed the collection Essl: It was simply and touching also a condition of the donor, because he said he wanted to give his works of art to Albertina. – Now you could have said as a union: Well, Albertina doesn't fit 100 percent, you better keep it! – I don't think so. [[Abg. Zinggl: You could have changed the law!]] I believe that this gift, which is one of the largest in the history of the Second Republic, is very, very valuable – not only monetary, but also historical and educational. I am glad that I succeeded in bringing this gift to the stage and thank all those involved. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Anger.]] The Federal Museum Card has already been discussed. Some people want them for free. I don't know what to do with this, because most of all, the tourists would have something to do with it. [[Abg. Plessl: There are also the Austrians...!]] The Federal Museum's earnings would be significant, and the bill would be around 11 million euros. That is why we have tried to find a way to create a complementary offer where there is less merit, but perhaps there is also the possibility of discovering another museum beyond his favorite museum. That is why the Federal Museum Card has been created in this way. So far, over 2 000 tickets have been sold. From our point of view, this is a beautiful success. The third point: The question of archiving of digital statements by politicians is one that is rightly discussed. We have therefore also worked through the NEOS proposal – which I believe has been adopted unanimously – and have said that we want to adapt the Federal Archives Act so that it is also possible in a correct way. Thank you for the suggestion, I think this is an important contribution. Many debates are also controversial in the digital area, and perhaps not everything is of the highest political historical importance; but well, the archive should be an inventory. This is being done, and I think it is an important development that we are going to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15666	Mr Taschner is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15687	Madam President. High house! Mr Schellhorn, it was a really important initiative you have set up. The Federal Minister has just referred to the fact that statements by politicians who are being made in social media are also to be archived. So there will be a huge archive with many, many statements. You won't know if you can easily search through this archive. Actually, this has tradition in itself. The whole thing started with Marcus Tullius Tiro. That was the one who recorded every statement by Cicero, and be it the last cougher. He has developed his own shorthand, and since then we are used to the fact that everything is said must always be recorded. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my admiration for all those who carry out the records in an admirable way here in our House. [[General condolences.]] – Now I don’t know how they’ll rate this applause. An Example From Today Meeting: I did not understand how it was possible for Mrs Kucharovich, when she prayed down her requests in a Staccato, to find a place in her short paper. That's really remarkable. It is also noteworthy that this will also be archived. You will see that there will be archives such as the library of Babel. The difficulty will be – the Federal Minister has talked about it – that we will then have no more information media, but verification media. - That's right. Archives are verification media. The difficulty with these verification media is: How should those who are supposed to verify do so to see all of this? I would like to mention another point in which I may object to Mr Schellhorn a little: He said in an interview, I think, with the “Kronen Zeitung”, the possibility of archiving might also lead politicians to “trap on a bit more.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] With permission: That's too little for me to feel. To tear yourself a little more on the belt is too little to be able to really appear in the archive as a highlight. I think we should expect more. Mr Schellhorn, it is also true that we are going to find certain words that are made, and then we will find that some of the statements that come from certain sides are manifesting themselves as camouflages, even in some way hypocrisies, in the face of which Molière himself would have been blown and which he could not have put in his mouth. They are spoken, and then they say how terrible everything is, and in reality, you don't have all the cups in the closet yourself, as it should be. This is also to be considered, and you can also verify this if you want to verify it – and I hope that many will want to verify it. But what it really matters is: I want more than just to get a little bit on the belt. I would like to see some highlights of rhetoric in these archives, just as Cicero was supposed to want to do, and you should also see them, you should also be able to read them. It comes to these highlights. It is important that politicians speak with far-sightedness and responsibility; that is actually the true principle that we should give ourselves here. Quidquid dicis, prudenter dicas et respice finem, could be said – with everything you say, remember your words and remember what it is all about. That's what we should consider. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15744	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15766	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to repeat briefly to Mrs Großbauer and the Minister. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is not a question of talking something bad at all; that is a misunderstanding, I think you simply interpret it that way. I or we believe that, if a member of the government has areas of responsibility, it is also a matter of working out tasks, of getting things that are open, so to speak, and of making distractions. That is our understanding of politics and the duties of a member of the government; we draw attention to this, and we question it. As Mrs Hammerschmid has already mentioned, the White Paper on the Reorganisation of the Austrian Federal Museums and the Austrian National Library has been published since April 2017. This was published at the time, and the aim of the study was to create a well-founded basis for optimizing the different houses; the colleague addressed it in detail. That is, since 2017 results have been on the table, then, as we know, new elections have come, and nothing has happened since then. At last, it needs a structured and functioning cultural policy and not alibi reforms through various post positions or new orders, which are nothing at all – nothing at all! – have to do with efficiency or with the optimization and reposition of the Federal Museums and the National Library. Mr Minister, we are simply waiting for all your projects to be implemented. They have not yet submitted a draft law. They always claim that reforms should be made on the basis of figures, so my question is: You've just been talking about a shared service GmbH, a single-digit million amount. We would like to hear concrete figures. We would like to know how much that costs, how much savings really exist. Give us the specific figures on the basis of which you have, so to speak, initiated this transformation! I would also like to ask you to finally build up pressure on collective agreements with federal museums. [[Abg. New builder: (delighted) Eleven years!]] Put pressure on those responsible to finally get collective agreements on the road! [[Abg. New builder: Eleven years!]] It is about the social situation of the people who are employed there, but of course it is about just pay. Furthermore, the social situation of artists is Austria-wide, and we are also waiting for concrete implementations in this regard. You know, last year there was a follow-up to the study on the social situation of artists. We all know that artists are much, much more often affected by poverty than members of all other industries – it finally needs action! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also put on the table concrete proposals, tag changes in the artist's social security fund, the demand for a working group at an interministerial level, to which experts, artists, social partners are invited. What about it? Mr. Minister, what's going on with that? This also concerns the field of ballet academy: We called for a recast of the Ballet Academy, and we also wanted a committee of our own. – There is no date yet. We're just asking you to act. And by permission: After a year and a half, the argument of the phase of introduction is no longer valid. Finally act and bring laws into the way – for the artists!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15843	Mrs Berger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15864	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at the current topic of folk theatre. In the media, the topic of folk theatre and the role of the ÖGB is discussed. The Committee itself was very detailed, longer, but above all hot, about it. It is, as has been said, a debate on the future of the Volkstheater, which is known to be needed for the renovation. I was of the opinion in the Committee and still believe that the ÖGB is a factual owner and should therefore also contribute to this renovation. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Blümel, Federal Minister, assured us in the Committee that the Federation would be part of it and support the Volkstheater. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is already clear that the foundation construction is very likely to secure the main influence of the ÖGB and that the ÖGB clearly must also have a financial responsibility; I express this. - So much for it. Now I come to the request for a free museum Sunday of colleagues Drozda. Before: The access of as many Austrians as possible to our cultural establishments is a concern to all of us here, I think. This has been and is being done very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let me give you a brief overview of what offers there are! There is free entry for all under 19-year-olds into all federal museums. Whatever I want to mention, but above all, I think, is that last year 1.5 million apprentices have taken advantage of the offer to visit federal museums for free. That's really remarkable, and I really think that's great. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Last year, in December 2018, the Bundesmuseen Card was introduced, which is also very well accepted; since the introduction – that has already been said – around 2,000 cards have been sold. In the Federal Museums, however, numerous reductions are also offered, from the cultural passport through Ö1 to family packages. We believe that there are plenty of opportunities to visit museums free of charge or discounted. Art may also cost something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15921	The next item is Mrs Schatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e15943	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we discussed 13 requests at the last Cultural Committee meeting – 13 applications exclusively from the opposition parties. Two requests have been rejected, which we are discussing today, namely those concerning the Federal Museums and those for the free Sunday of the museum, and all the others have been postponed by the government parties – everyone else, except the last one on the agenda. I believe that none of us really expected that this last request would be accepted unanimously by all. I have looked at this request in retrospect, and I, Mr Schellhorn, have looked through your strategy: This request was probably accepted because you also added photos of Strache and German Chancellors in short. [[The speaker shall keep a page of the said request up to date.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] In fact, for the first time, an opposition request was accepted in the Cultural Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Communication, especially political communication, has undergone a massive change in recent years. Politics is now being made to a large extent digital, is taking place digitally, and especially in social media. We know that the US President uses Twitter in particular to make policy and send out opinions and messages. Politics is also taking place in the social media in Austria. Many politicians use them for the sending of political messages and opinions, so we also consider it important for research, but also for the general public, to ensure that these messages are also archived and secured in the digital media, in the social media accordingly. Let me give you an example: An archiving of digital communication guarantees that if, for example, the Vice-Cancecian of this Republic shares on Facebook article by holocaust-deficient pages, the identity is praised as – I quote – “non-left citizen movement” with peaceful activism and the posting is removed at a time when the links of the FPÖ to the identities are focused. An archiving also guarantees that future history research will be kept in mind, which is already being dramatically directed to us today, namely who was brought by Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz there to the Federal Chancellor's Office to enforce the interests of his election campaign donors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We consider it necessary, even for future generations, to ensure and archive relevant data and documents, and support the request to the Federal Minister to draw up and submit a draft law with the involvement of experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16010	Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16032	Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated President! Many families in Austria used Easter holidays last week to simply spend time together. Just yesterday, before I went to Vienna, friends told me that they spent the Easter holidays with their children in Vienna, how beautiful it was, how great it was, but also how expensive it is to visit museums and cultural institutions as a family. For families who, as it were, want to open the door to the culture of their children and visit museums, this is not always quite easy to vote for, because at the cost of arrival, at the cost of arrival, at the food costs, the entrances to the respective cultural institutions, above all, but also to our federal museums. The SPÖ therefore submitted the application concerning “introduction of a free museum Sunday”. Why is this an important measure and why should the government parties not simply reject this request? – The measures contained in the proposal we have put forward could be counterproductive and could relieve families, but also the weak, because culture, ladies and gentlemen, must be accessible to everyone and, above all, manageable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The lighthouse, the parade project in this context already implemented the SPÖ years ago: the free entry for all until the 19th century. Year of life in our federal museums. It would now be logical to put in place the next measure and implement the entry-free museum Sunday. Mr Minister, the subject is just so important to me, and it would be very nice if you could perhaps put your cell phone away for a second. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who looks at his smartphone]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, Mrs Großbauer, if you think what is free is worth nothing, look beyond the edge of the plate, beyond Vienna, because internationally you do not see it like that! In Paris, in London – there is already that everywhere. It's just too little to create a federal museum card without a concept behind it. This is not a milestone, Minister Blümel, that is clearly a tourism measure. In the Vienna weeks for school classes, too, the extensive museum offer is often simply forbidden because they cannot afford the guided tours. There is also an urgent need for action. So there's one more thing I can say: Please accept the SPÖ's request! Open the museums simply and unbureaucratically for families or for all people in this country! Work on concepts and not just on superficial headlines in cultural policy, especially at museums! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, culture must never be a question of income in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16092	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 570 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of him to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 571 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of him to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 5 of the Committee's report on the "Archive of digital archives of the highest federal institutions through the state archive". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 68) [[17:55:35]] 6. Point Government template: Federal Act on the Perception of Consular Tasks (Consular Act – ConsG) (512 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16168	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. With regard to this government proposal, a deadline for reporting to the Foreign Policy Committee has been set for the reporting period up to 11. ==References== The wish for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure are not in place. Mr Leichfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16204	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Much more than seven million EU citizens travel or live in countries outside the EU where there is neither a message nor a consulate of the home country. I believe it is also one of the values of the European Union that a directive on consular protection for EU citizens, if so called, was adopted in 2015 in response to it. This Directive makes clear the circumstances under which foreign embassies can provide consular assistance to EU citizens who are in an emergency outside the European Union. I believe that this is a very good objective, it facilitates external cooperation at European level and offers Europeans better protection. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we naturally support the implementation of such a directive. Then, ladies and gentlemen, what is unfortunately common to this Federal Government – I do not always want to say that would be unfair – comes: You spent it a little bit. One has known that this is to be done, one has delayed it, for which reasons always – some say there was a conflict between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Interior about what must be inside, so it took – and suddenly it was such that a infringement procedure threatened. It would not have happened if things had been done in time. As it happens many times here, the next consideration was: Well, we've been late now, but the Austrian National Council is not so important anyway, the Foreign Policy Committee is not so important either – we're putting it in such a way that it doesn't have to be done by the Committee! The result, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it has been rehearsed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is almost schizophrenic when we look at what this law includes, and when we look at the next item on the agenda here in the National Council: This is about Golden Plating, since the Federal Government has the intention of the representatives of the government groups to ensure that EU directives are no longer overcrowded. It will, as it were, be the wish list of the Chamber of Commerce and IV processed poorer social protection, poorer protection for consumers and so on and so on. [[Abg. New builder:... really a trauma!]] And what are you doing here with this bill? – Golden Plating par excellence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Steinacker:... Gold Plating!]] One does not do what the Consulates Directive provides, one does much, much more, and one does that. Once again, this is typical of the action of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can discuss the intention that former ISIS fighters should no longer return to the country; but you can discuss it in such a way that it does not actually hit IS fighters, but – due to the health notes that are inside – also sick little children, that may not be in your mind, ladies and gentlemen valued. We do not want to keep sick little children away from Europe's borders; I hope you do not think that is necessary either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This discretion given to the authority is too much, shoots beyond the law and does not even serve its interests. That is why we have also made a request, with the intention of leaving the discussion to the professionals in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Let us see that we get rid of these weaknesses, and then we will decide on a good law for all Austrians, ladies and gentlemen in good time, also in good time for EU targets. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Come with our request, make something reasonable here!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16276	Mr Gudenus has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16297	Mr President. Mrs. Kneissessl! I would like to comment briefly on Mr Leichtfried's comments and his request for referral back. Mr Leichtfried, you said: the professionals in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. – For the Enlightenment here in the High House and also for the viewers in front of the televisions: We have tried to make such a committee take place, but there is a committee chairman, Andreas Schieder, who has not convened this committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] However, we must comply with a deadline to ensure that the EU does not impose any penalty on us, and that is why we are now coming to a decision on this law and will reject your referral request, Mr Leichfried. - It's a very simple thing. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I understand that Arbitrators, of course, now, through his candidate for the EU Parliament – after his failed candidate in Vienna – are very nervous and want to be revelry and have found the same and perhaps no date to convene this Foreign Policy Committee. Nevertheless, we have the responsibility and the obligation to comply with this EU directive to comply with the deadlines. I would like to say a warm thank you to the entire Federal Government, but especially to the foreign minister, that this law has come about, this government template, which we are now going to pass on in the form of law, because this is another important milestone also for an active security policy for which the new Federal Government stands – that is quite clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] We also ensure greater security – a very clear point on which we have also known and committed ourselves in the government programme. More security is the highest principle, and we take many small steps one after the other, step by step to ensure more safety. A not too small step is to ensure that the consular authorities, of course, according to their discretion, ensure that dangerous persons are no longer able to enter the land of our country. If someone has freely decided to go, for example, to Syria, to Iraq or elsewhere, to be terrorist or to be a helper to IS units, to commit Islamist atrocities or the like, then he has lost the right to protect the Austrian consulate, ladies and gentlemen. That's what this law is about. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is no longer any help for people who pose a threat to public order or security. IS fighters and their helpers and helpers – this must, of course, be decided by the consular authorities – must certainly be assigned to this category. These consular authorities abroad not only have the opportunity, but also the obligation to communicate with the national authorities – with the intelligence agencies and other authorities that have information – in Vienna, in Austria, in order to achieve the best possible result if it is examined whether this person poses a risk to public security or not. I could now say quite polemically – because you can also push all kinds of things into our shoes with a lot of silverstone stuff in the background –: [[towards SPÖ]] They are therefore in favour of the law not being passed today because these possible ISIS returnees, many of whom are citizens and thus have a right to vote, are potential SPÖ voters. I could say that now. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Duzdar and Mr Greiner.]] - No, that's not naughtiness. This is a very welcome move, ladies and gentlemen. There was a few years ago in a community building in Vienna in the 6th century. District Mr. Chechaev, an illustrative figure from the IS-Milieu, and of course from Chechnya. These are your Haberers, we know that, especially in Vienna, but also throughout Austria. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] These are those who choose the SPÖ as soon as they have citizenship, so they get the minimum security and a municipal apartment as soon as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] Mr. Tchatajev has lived in Vienna for years, since 2001. It is from Vienna, from the municipal building apartment that he has been provided by your party friends, to Chechnya, to the North Caucasus, to Georgia, to Iraq, to Syria, to other war areas and to the like, and has returned again and again. Why? – Of course because the minimum security was paid to him, for him, his probably six children and his wife. He came, took the money and went back to the war zones to continue working for the ISIS and to commit terrorist attacks. [[Abg. Wittmann: What about...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] He was even put on several occasions and also shot at, for example, the border in Georgia when he practised terror and was able to escape again. He's supposed to be behind the Istanbul Airport attack, I think, for two and a half years. So we don't need such figures in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Maybe they're fighting for it. We fight for such figures to stop entering our ground. It is also perfectly clear that the Minister of the Interior and the entire Federal Government are ensuring greater security, with border protection, with more police, with clear laws against extremisms and in the future with a law against political Islam. [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Wittmann and Mr Greiner.]] We want political Islam, Islamic extremism in Austria, and this law – thank you, Mrs. Foreign Minister – is another milestone for it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16426	Mr Klubobmann, Member of the European Parliament, spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16450	Mr Klubobmann Gudenus claimed that if we left it to the professionals and handled the proper procedure, the EU would punish us. - That's wrong. If such a legislative procedure is initiated, the infringement procedure will normally be suspended. [[Abg. Cashier: Usually or always?- Oh, my God!]] Mrs Foreign Minister, I understand that you too would not vote for Mr Vilimsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16500	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16522	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with some clarifications. On the one hand: We as SPÖ and also the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have very likely made a proposal for an appointment for a Committee on Foreign Affairs in May, but it has been rejected. Secondly, The deadline for the implementation of this law expired in the spring of last year. So we had plenty of time to bring this to a Committee on Foreign Affairs, which would have been a regular one – there was no problem at all. As regards the case of the IS fighter described by Mr Klubobmann Gudenus: What did the Ministry of the Interior do in this case? Why didn't the Ministry of the Interior prevent him from coming back, for example? [[Abg. Gudenus: Well, excuse me!]] And: What in concrete terms does this consular law have to do with it? – This does not change at all the situation you have just described; nothing at all. That has nothing to do with it. They're not going anywhere. I would like to read to you what the Ministry of Justice has written in its opinion on § 3 para. 3 – This is the one in which the restriction of consular protection is concerned – and Abs. 4 — the rejection of consular protection. The Ministry of Justice writes: ‘In accordance with the proposed paragraph. 3 may be restricted the granting of consular protection in the cases listed. This is apparently intended to give the competent authority a wide discretion. The extent of this It is appropriate to specify more precisely and to add appropriate guidelines [...]. The granting of discretion without any restriction on the extent to which the discretion is to be exercised would be inadmissible [...].’ ‘In addition, the reservation of the proposed paragraph refers to: 3 – and the same applies to paragraph 4 – “to all tasks of the consular authorities and hence also to procedures for the adoption of documents [...]. Such procedures, however, are typically subjective rights of persons (party) who are therefore entitled to a claim for enforcement vis-à-vis the competent authority. A flat-rate reservation could be in a voltage ratio to constitutional requirements, in particular the matter-law and the rule of law.’ Now, in contrast to the Ministerial Draft, you supplement a paragraph 5, in which you place it on the individual case and in which you also write that the respect of proportionality must be given naturally, but it is still an incredibly broad discretion that the authorities should be granted there. To strengthen this example of health: This is not only about Austrian children, who may have a disease, who need consular protection because they have lost a passport, or whatever, but also about a lot of developmental workers who need consular protection, for example, come from an Ebola area and may have a health problem that may be found only weeks later. Of course, we will provide these people with both consular and medical protection. I guess that can't be a question that we don't just leave these people out there. It may not be that, due to a completely outrageous arrangement provided for in this law, purely due to the discretion of officials at once, people of human rights, fundamental rights protection should be excluded that this is permitted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Herbert]] And there's no mention of ISIS fighters in there – with permission. We will certainly not agree to this draft law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16564	Next item is the report by Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16586	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. One can only hope that after the election day, after the European elections, half normality will return here in the House, because what you conjure up here is far away from what we decide today. I'll talk about it afterwards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr Rendi-Wagner and Mr Leichtfried: That's what it says!]] - No, it's not inside. Do you know what this paragraph 5 says? Maybe you didn't read it. I read it to you: ‘There is a danger in delay’. – This is certainly a restriction; only then can we put in place these measures. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Exactly...!]] I'll tell you one thing: The interests of Austrian citizens are more important to me than those of ISIS fighters who have turned their backs on this country, our Republic! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If you still don't understand, I'll tell you again: Of course, these provisions are precisely aimed at this case. All of Europe is thinking about what we are doing with those who have turned their backs on our society, the values of our society, who have committed atrocities in Iraq, in Syria and are now in camps of the Kurds. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: What does health have to do with it? Nothing!]] But in one point you are right: The kids can't help it. The children are the victims. Therefore, this law is not a requirement, but there is a margin of discretion. There is no consular support where we see safety at risk, and this has really little to do with development workers who are in the interests of people there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] The jihadists did the opposite. That's – and that's what you have to say directly – criminals, and they don't deserve our consular protection, ladies and gentlemen! That's why it's here. It is far more important, however, in this law that the European Union should once again point out that it is of great value to every citizen in Europe if he is lucky to be a citizen of the European Union. It is already laid down in Article 23 of the EU Treaty that Union citizens who are in a third country where the mother country, in this case Austria, has no diplomatic representation, as well as nationals of a state with a consular representation – we assume that only the French in the Frankophone have a consular representation, therefore: like a French citizen – should enjoy consular protection. – There has then been this directive. Why did it take longer for us? - Because we are not just implementing this directive. That's what you've completely left out. We're doing a lot more. There were different legal provisions, regulations. We had the main rules in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, and now we summarize them all. It is to be thanked to the Minister that we now have a comprehensive law that regulates all these points. Of course, we have told the European Commission that we need more time. At the same time, we also spoke with the SPÖ, and I did not even talk to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs several times about whether we could not hold a meeting. And the Njet did not even come from the chairman of the arbitration, but in this case it came from the NEOS who said: No, in this time frame – from the beginning of March to the end of April – we never have an hour for the Foreign Policy Committee. My proposal was: If it's not possible on your own day, why not today morning? Finally, the plenary session did not begin until noon. We would have had time today for a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be held all morning. No, Mr Leichtfried, it was not possible. [[Abg. Lightness: Had May been enough?]] We have proof and written at the beginning of March - – May I tell you something? [[Abg. Lightness: Had May been enough?]] - We were already under a lot of time pressure. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes, but why?]] That is where you have to ask the Commission. Perhaps you do not know the Commission's letter. [[Abg. Lightness: But she does it!]] – They only gave us a short period of time. It has already been said by colleague Bayr – perhaps you have not listened – before. [[Abg. Lightenness: I always listen!]] Do you know, Mr. Leichtfried, when the deadline for us was over? ==References== May 2018. [[Abg. Easy peace: Say it!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Then the two weeks would no longer be...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] 2018, now we have 2019, colleague Leichtfried. [[Abg. Wittmann: But no one would have stopped you...!]] We now have the year 2019 and have subsequently asked for a deadline, on the grounds that we regulate this comprehensively and beyond the guidelines. But I don't want to stop at the technical details at all. The crucial point is: Today, we are adopting a comprehensive consular law which, on the one hand, brings many benefits to Austrian citizens and on the other hand gives us this opportunity – of course, respecting the relationship principle, taking into account that the persons to whom we deny consular protection do not deserve it, because they were just terrorists in the jihad. [[Abg. Lightenness: Or sick!]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: What does health have...?]] This is the intention of the law. That's what we decide here today. I would also ask you to give your consent to this law in the interests of the safety of Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16797	Mr Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16823	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Dear spectators! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Lopatka! We NEOS also consider the law to be very useful, because legal certainty is created by codifying once. As you have said, we are already obliged to do so because we have to implement an EU Consular Directive and are already over time, not just because of temporary problems, but for a very long time. This leads me to a general problem: This federal government is very often very responsible for its legislation. The short-term media success is important, and if it wants to achieve it, then a law is already put together – in the mood, in the mood; I remember the flexibility of working time or the day of karfreisday. She has it, too, if she suddenly realizes that there is an EU directive to be implemented. This consular directive has also caught it backwards. But the Federal Government is so skillful that it thinks: If we now have to adopt a law urgently, we are also selling it as an urgent matter, as a media gag. No one will notice that this is not so urgent at all. [[Call:What you know]] So pressure was exerted on the opposition to whip this law quickly, quickly by Parliament: We need an extra committee appointment, we need to quickly decide on the consular law. And without need as a small gift to the “Kronen Zeitung” one packs in the already quoted paragraphs with the following provision: ‘Consular protection [...] may be refused if the person concerned [...] could only be protected under threat to the life or health of other persons or public order and security.’ And then, like now, Mr Gudenus, you're going to sit down and say: We certainly do not help an IS-ler with Austrian citizenship, who is in prison somewhere in Syria or Iraq! – One pretends to have invented something new and defeated radicalism again. But what is it really like? – First of all: Already, security policy considerations, corresponding restrictions on consular protection are possible under international law. Thus, as has been the case so often, the Federal Government has invented something that already exists. Secondly, Mr Gudenus – does nothing –: [[Abg. Gudenus is in conversation with Abg. Chestnut]] This Federal Government seems to have no idea how many Austrians who have fought for the IS are currently in Syria and Iraq, in what state they are and whether they intend to return. And this is dangerous, Mr Gudenus. Thirdly, Mr Colleague: There is neither an Austrian embassy in Iraq nor Syria. Getting consular protection there is therefore very difficult anyway. Fourthly, Mr Gudenus and Mr Lopatka: To ensure that the persons concerned do not become a security risk for Austria by being able to return illegally and unnotified by our security forces, it is advisable not to stop contact. Consular protection is also a way to determine where a dangerous person is and possibly to arrest them. Furthermore, through a break-up of contact and loss of time, evidence of possible criminal proceedings in connection with the cruel crimes of the IS may be lost, which are important and necessary for this. As this is a matter of law, not a specific provision, and as has been said, the refusal of consular protection is already possible under international law, we will agree. However, we warn against using this new provision for more than this populist media storage, which has been announced in Mr Gudenus's speech and also in Mr Lopatka's speech. If, in the implementation of the law, cases arise in which Austria refuses consular protection because one wants to gain something internally, and then IS fighters come back to our country unnoticed, because one has lost contact and has not been able to take them into custody, then that is the responsibility of the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16870	Mrs. Kneissl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16891	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Stephanie Krisper has just said, consular protection is nothing new. We are talking here about centuries of practice, the law of international law, which has evolved from the needs of the merchants, the travelers. It's a big concern to me personally, because I know just about the importance of being on the road at a time when the individuals are travelling with their personal mobility – whether as tourists or, as Frédéric Charillon has said, also as terrorists. This means that the mobility of the individual simply results in a stronger consular observation and activity. In 1969, there was the Vienna Convention of Conventions, which codified this law for the first time, and now there is the implementation of this directive, whose motivation is above all the representation of those citizens of the Union who are not represented in certain countries, so that we can raise a practice already practised here to a new level, with all the details, as well as financial demands et cetera. It was raised the accusation that we operate gold plating with it. I can reject this accusation in so far as certain bureaucratic requirements, such as this right-wing requirement, are required, such as legal certainty in the matter: Where there is consular protection, both for the individual citizen, the citizen and, of course, for the authority, it is easy to regulate clearly. Some Members have already critically presented the question of the candidature, this discretion. I'm allowed to show the following little parallels: Self-protection and foreign protection, that is something we know from the avalanche rescue, from the mountain rescue, that is nothing specific about consular protection abroad. There will be no rescuer, no avalanche rescuer, to perform a recovery under the most difficult conditions, if the protection of its own is no longer guaranteed, and this is also the case in this context: It is simply a provision for the protection of staff in the foreign service, which serves in consular service. This is a comprehensive law that can also be called a modern law, because it simply regulates in a detailed sequence exactly all that is possible today for modern handling of the opportunities for the protection of European citizens. The fact that we have been talking about here is being abolished today thanks to your support. I can therefore sincerely thank you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for supporting us so that we can comply with this deadline. There were a whole series of reasons which went back to the past year and beyond, that this was not more possible; all the more I know to appreciate that, with this decision in plenary, you are giving us today the opportunity that we can lift this sluggishness and implement the law in good time. I am quite sure that with it we are a modern, a contemporary – no overlaid! – creating a law that respects mobility, no matter how people are on the move, and that also creates legal certainty for both citizens and the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16936	Mr Neubauer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e16958	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to draw attention to what Mr Lopatka has already said, namely the task of today's draft law, namely the fact that an EU directive should be implemented by means of the representation of the Consular Law, while at the same time pointing out who is actually covered by this consular protection. The consular protection of Austria may be granted under international law or Union law of Austrian citizens, legal persons to be attributed to Austria, non-consularly represented Union citizens, and in addition to that group of persons to whom Austria has a protection function under international law. Austria now has this role of protection vis-à-vis the South Tyroleans since the autonomous statute, and now this consular representation regulation is also to be incorporated into the Consular Act. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am seeking support for the request. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[18:27]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17068	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gahr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17097	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This consular law has now been considered by various sides, and I believe it is very useful and important that we no longer delay it, but that we decide today. It will no longer be better, but I believe it is important that we implement this EU directive here in good time. It is simply about creating legal certainty and, as I believe, providing security to our citizens when they are mobile and on the move outside the European Union – Mrs. Kneissel has already explained. Mr Neubauer has already explained: Especially from the point of view of South Tyrol, as well as from my point of view as South Tyrol spokesperson and chairman of the South Tyrol Subcommittee, it is important that we also increase this consular assistance to this minority in Italy, these three language groups in foreign use. We have always proved that we are taking the issue of South Tyrol seriously here in the Austrian Parliament. This has a history and history with the dispute resolution, with the autonomy statute and many other measures that Austria has put forward, and Austria South Tyrol is always on the side due to its protective function. With regard to this protection function, I believe it is also important that we do so in the future. The autonomy report, which will be presented over a legislative period, gives us a constant insight into how autonomy is developing in South Tyrol. With this consular law – Mrs Federal Minister – I would like to express my express thanks for it – we have many supporters in South Tyrol. These are grateful that we are deciding on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17131	Mr Donmez has been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17152	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to use this item on the agenda to consider: If you look at the Austrian representation authorities, you can see that our representation activity is primarily geared to the economic interests of Austria and to the markets in which we operate. That is good, that is also useful, but I think it is equally important, if not more important, that we set up and establish our representative authorities not only on the basis of the economic perspectives, but also in those countries from which we have most migrants and asylum seekers in Austria. I've just checked the computer: In quite a few of those ten nations, whose members most often seek asylum in Austria, we have representation authorities. We simply lack the expertise to get secure information about the conditions in these countries and also about the people. - That's the one point. The other point is a great thank you to our officials working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When Austrians are in distress somewhere around the world, they can rely on the fact that there is a great deal of emphasis, great consequence and great commitment to solving the problems. I have some Citizens in difficulty abroad are contacted: That's where cooperation and cooperation worked very well. At this point, thank you very much to the officials in your ministry, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17191	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The debate is closed. First of all, we are going to vote on the request of Members of the European Parliament to refer the matter back to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this referral request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 512 of the Supplements. I can ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of seeking a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka, Mr Neubauer, Mr Krist, Mr President, on the maintenance of the practice of public authorities in consular support. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority, and that is why the motion for a resolution has been adopted. (E 69) [[18:33:46]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (508 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Corporate Code, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Banking Act, the Deposit Insurance and Investor Reimbursement Act, the Stock Exchange Act 2018, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016, the Economic Loyalty Act 2017, the Accounting Act 2014 and the Waste Management Act 2002 (Anti-Gold-Plating Act 2019) (583 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17272	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Moser. Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17302	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is about the abolition of so-called gold-plating. Provisions. In principle, one can discuss in what form and in what way this should happen – a great throw is not. Just one thing really hurts me: In the Real Estate Investment Fund Act and the Investment Fund Act, provisions are amended. First of all, provisions for the management company are also laid down when such funds are set up, and normally – for this purpose there is a Supervisory Board – the Supervisory Board would have to approve these provisions, because they can be provisions that are not necessarily targeted. That is to say, the meaning and purpose of this authorisation is probably elucidating: Basically, when setting up each company, anyone has to set these rules. This will be removed, the Supervisory Board will have the right to assess these provisions, including the assessment of the amendment of the provisions, and says: No, we don't need all of this, that is, to the shareholders who make the money. If the management company changes the rules of the game, the provisions can be changed in the middle of the duration of the fund and no more approvals by the Supervisory Board. But this could be a provision that harms society, because it could be a provision with which the manager increases his bonus. This is certainly a burden on the company, and the Supervisory Board would have at least the supervisory duty and would have to agree if the bonus was changed. It subsequently examines the FMA, but it must not examine whether it is a provision against society, but only the legitimate investor interests. That is, if the bonus does not violate the investor interests, even if the company does not accept it, no one can, in principle, object anymore if a change occurs with these investment funds or with these real estate funds. I think this is a fire risk because it massively damages investor protection and, of course, includes a free letter for the managers working there. I really think that's dangerous! I don't think that's what anybody's been thinking about, or you're using the donors who work very massively in the real estate fund, investment fund business. I suspect the second because of the fact that client policy is being pursued here again, because it brings the managers of these real estate funds into a massively better situation. I think that's a fire risk – for lawyers, it's a paradise for lawsuits.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17344	Mrs Steinacker has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17366	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Yeah, I'm saying, It's finally ready! Finally, we are dealing with bureaucracy, unnecessary delay and the burden on our entrepreneurs! We eliminate exuberant formalisms, superfluous bureaucraticism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is the first step in order to relieve our entrepreneurs and bring them back to doing what they are for, that is to say, doing well, bringing our prosperous Austria further forward and creating jobs for our fellow citizens. That's what They're supposed to do it, and not to promote superfluous bureaucrats. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Gold Plating means nothing but gold gold. There are certain scopes for the implementation of the EU Directives and, as it were, these scopes can be over-fulfilled. For our present coalition partner, overfill has always meant that there was no way back from its high over-fulfilment bureaucrats standards, we simply had to give it up quite, very often, in order to achieve implementation of directives. Now it is that you have looked at this very carefully in a bottom-up process. The entrepreneurs were involved, the stakeholders were involved, the corresponding officials were involved in the ministries – and in the end it was implemented by you, Mr. Federal Minister. All of them have looked at where EU directives, based on multiple notifications, dual and triple information, are superfluous rules for testing and approval, which have been set at a very close time, and where and how to take them back in order to make an economy possible. Thank you again for this broad involvement! I think it is very essential that we give our entrepreneurs the air to breathing that they need. Mr Wittmann, I was really pleased that you spoke today on this subject, which you, I say, perhaps presented in confusion. I am not saying that you have no knowledge, but you have already formulated it relatively inaccurately in committee and did not know exactly what it was all about. I can now simply hold on to the provision, as it is intended, as follows: These are two different materials. One matter in the Investment Fund Act deals with the administrative fee and the provisions of the Fund. That is, when the Fund is imposed: What can an investment fund calculate as its remuneration? And: What are the conditions on which this fund is imposed? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] – Slow, slow down, I'm getting to it, to the mistake! On the one hand, these costs are approved by the Supervisory Board, the Depot Bank and the FMA - so far, so well, as the Supervisory Board is of course involved. In addition, this fund operates operationally. He designed, he cared for investors, he booked interest and dividend payments. And if changes occur in the course of its fund activity, it is in the future regulated in such a way that the Supervisory Board no longer needs to be questioned because it has already given its basic consent, but only – and that is the point – the depot bank and the FMA. In other words, the deposit bank and the FMA are very likely to check: The depositary bank must agree and approve the FMA, and it may only do so and only if something is changed in the interests of all shareholders. Mr Wittmann has just told us – since I could have already reported a real correction – that the management salaries should not then be approved by the Supervisory Board, the managers can increase or disburse their bonuses or whatever. – Mr Wittmann, in § 17a Investment Fund Act, very detailed rules are laid down, which a fund manager can earn. And the EU Directive has legally provided that, of course, all managers' salaries and all the bonuses to be paid are to be approved by the Supervisory Board. There's no change. That is to say, for all citizens, because colleagues in the National Council have understood this – it is a difference whether or not a Managers receive a salary and this salary is very likely to continue to be controlled by the Supervisory Board and whether the change of provisions can no longer be checked three times, but can only be controlled accordingly by deposit bank and financial market supervision, under quotation marks. I mean – and here, every one of us who is outside with the people and with the companies will be obliged to do so – it is important to finally put off superfluous bureaucrats. We'll do it and we'll throw this ballast off. We give room for business. We take, of course, the 160 measures to be taken, the protection of workers, the protection of consumers and the protection of the environment, where, as we believe, Austrian standards are important and correct, but where formalism is concerned, we are fighting red tape!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17447	Mr Wittmann is speaking on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17471	Mr President. My predecessor claimed that the fund provisions must be drawn up by the management company and presented to the Supervisory Board and then the FMA. - That's what's changed. In fact, § 53 of the Investment Fund Act explicitly states: ‘The fund provisions shall be drawn up by the management company and shall determine the legal relationship of shareholders to the management company and to the deposit bank. The Fund provisions shall be submitted to the Depotbank for approval and shall inform the Supervisory Board at the next meeting." Not even the founding provisions must be submitted to the Supervisory Board! The fund provisions governing the legal effects between the shareholder and the management company shall not even be submitted to the Supervisory Board at the time of its establishment! Their answer was therefore incorrect, because the text of the law says exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17505	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17526	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have already been very surprised that a matter that actually belongs to the Financial Committee is being dealt with in the Justice Committee. This is about different laws, starting from the Banking Act on the Investment Fund Act, on the Investment Fund Manager Act and more. It was already curious enough that, as my colleague Alfred Noll told me, the experts from the Ministry of Finance had to be drawn to the aid of the judicial committee in order to be able to answer the questions at all. So it would have been useful to actually discuss these materials, which belong to the Financial Committee, there too. Mrs Steinacker, when it comes to formalism, it says: Get away with the gold-plating rules! – Yes, but behind these formalisms, or behind these higher standards, compared to lower standards in the EU directives, there are often protective ideas: the protection of investors, the protection of consumers, the protection of workers. If I have read this template correctly, then this anti-gold-Plating law is only once the first step that will follow in the field of environmental protection and others. And I am thinking already of the environment in which there is so little progress in this country. The decommissioning of gold-plating regulations is justified with superfluous bureaucracy. I have made the effort to look at the impact assessment in order to look for where the overarching bureaucracy has been shown in numbers. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, from the ÖVP and from the FPÖ and also from the Minister, I could not find anything substance in it. Consider an example: An example of bizarre nature is the price suspension in the cashroom of credit institutions. This should be changed to online, and in fact the scheme is now one that exempts the credit institution from making these information online or continues to hang out in the cash office. This is why I find Skurril because it is already a protection provision for those who are not internet-finished. There are just a lot of people, old people who are unable to do so or who have no access to the Internet at all and therefore cannot be informed about it. Where's the superfluous bureaucracy now? In the impact assessment, I read “Notes on other, non-essential effects”: ‘A slight reduction in the administrative costs for credit institutions [...]’. This can be carried out in all the articles of this government template, and you will see that you do not find the superfluous bureaucracy. It is therefore absurd, Mrs Steinacker, to say that this is a first step towards relieving businesses that this is a step towards creating jobs. [[Abg. Steinacker: Sure!]] Not a single job is shown in this impact assessment, not a single one, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Do you know what this law means? – This law means reducing protection provisions in a wide range of areas. [[Abg. Steinacker: Inconceivable!]] An example has already been mentioned in very detail by Mr Wittmann, namely the withdrawal of the authorisation of fund provisions in the Investment Fund Act and the Real Estate Investment Fund Act. I'm on his side. By the way, I am also quite on his side when it comes to the fact that, in other areas, standards for annual accounts of companies are being disregarded, it is possible to make impure calculations on the provision of workers' rights that publicity obligations are restricted by small companies. These are provisions that are necessary and their reduction only leads to certain deteriorations for workers, for investors, for consumers – and all of this in the service of the economy, led by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17582	Mr Stefan has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17603	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, that's how things are bad. That's a nice attempt, but we've got ourselves in the government. programme agreed that we are implementing a process of legal cleansing and deregulation, and that is part of it. No one here claims that this will eliminate all red tapes now. It is simply a step in the right direction that one considers whether unnecessary pitfalls are present, whether unnecessary additional loads have been implemented. It is therefore a question of Union legislation which is to be examined as to whether unnecessary bureaucracy has taken place without creating an added value in terms of quality or security for the national. So it's not that we're basically making changes when we see that we've fulfilled more than we've been given, but only if this multi-filling has not led to a better situation for domestics. That is to say, we have begun to search through – gratefully the Federal Minister has also taken up the initiative – which provisions are unnecessary. There are now eleven laws on which amendments are made, partly with smaller effects, partly with greater impact, and it will continue. It's just the first step. As I said, however, you can do anything bad and you can of course hear the grass growing everywhere. For example: If there are only half-yearly reports instead of quarterly reports, it sounds harmless, but this is an incredible effort for a large listed company to produce a report. This means that a number of employees are one or two weeks busy, so this is a million. The question now is: Where is the great added value of security if this is made quarterly rather than half-yearly? If you estimate this, you can conclude that it is enough half a year, so you will take back a scheme that is not specified by Union law. Or, what has already been said: We obviously have an over-compliance with the money laundering directives. There is, for example, a clarification as to the economic owner in the background. It is certainly still a lot to do, but it is finally a step in the right direction; only that you take over this way of thinking once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Perhaps still to my colleague. Wittmann: However, I do not see the problem, even if there has been an actual correction here. The establishment of the fund provisions is also provided for by Union law as a measure, an operational measure which the Board of Directors takes, and it is in addition the deposit bank with in play and in case of changes also the FMA, and this is also presented to the Supervisory Board. That is, it is in itself just a step in the normal direction, that you say a society must actually be capable of action, and in order to ensure it, the board of directors is there. Now here to say that the board would then increase itself its bonuses or otherwise: These are all things in which, when he does, he accepts liability to society and possibly also to the fund members themselves. So you already have to leave the church in the village. It is a normal process that the Board of Directors is taking operational action, and there it has been reduced. This also applies to all the other provisions. So, in conclusion, It's a really sensible law, a step in the right direction – it's really good that you start to search through now – so I hope to have a broad consent, because I can't understand why you want to find the hair in the soup here instead of seeing the really positive and therefore agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17666	The next item is Mrs Erasim's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17688	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! When at the beginning of this legislative period the plan of the anti-gold-Plating legislation was launched, precisely against the over-fulfilment of EU law, as a social-democratic parliamentary group, we have always been ready to negotiate, because we are clearly opposed to unnecessary overbureaucratisation, but the focus is on unnecessary over-bureaucratisation. If Mrs Steinacker is here as if the ÖVP had been forced to over-fulfilment by its former coalition partner, that would have a very good effect, because it is important for us to be clear about the reduction of environmental protection provisions, the reduction of workers' rights or also consumer protection rights. This conflict of laws also shows how difficult this matter is. Clearly: no advantage without disadvantage, no disadvantage without advantage; but it is important for us to put the rights of workers and consumer protection in the foreground. After all, 160 laws are still to be corrected, and we already want to have a thorough review and a precise consideration of each individual law. Mr Wittmann referred to the Investment Fund Act and the Property Investment Fund Act. There seems to be different interpretations. That is why it is also so important to formulate laws very concretely so that this difference in perception cannot be achieved and the gray areas are kept very narrow. In summary, it must be said that individual checks are to be carried out to ensure that we are ready to talk. It was the talk of the cake that cannot be brought into kindergarten, and all these things. – We have at least one point in which we agree. However, we do not take it into account that consumer protection and workers' rights are undermined, and we will pay very close attention to what will be presented to us in the coming 160 laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17724	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17745	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the previous speeches show quite clearly that the name of the law as an anti-gold-Plating law is actually missing. What's this about? – Mrs Steinacker said that quite correctly: It's about reducing bureaucracy. Whether these rules, which lead to more bureaucracy, but do not bring, are contained in a law adopted in the implementation of a directive, or in a law that we have devised ourselves, is actually completely secondary, does not matter at all, because the thrust is not that we want to lift it and change it now, because a directive on the EU is overcrowded, but the thrust is that we want to lift it, because we do not really need it, because it leads to too much more bureaucracy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are differences of opinion, we have already heard that, and there can be different opinions. Why is more being done than a EU directive? Why is that happening? There is this beautiful law, which says it should not be overcrowded without need; I very much hope so. But why is that happening? – Because there are interests that talk about going beyond that. This was the case with the guarantee reform, for example, where we went further. This is the same with other laws where there is a higher level of protection, which is true for the sixth week of vacation, there are enough examples. In all the other cases mentioned, there were also interests that spoke of providing for the hangout in the cashroom or a further obligation to approve a further obligation to communicate. That is why I would strongly advocate that we abandon the anti-gold-plating law. This gives the impression that the EU's gold plating wanted to be a pleasure, as if it were going to be practically gold-plated in its implementation, and they are looking forward to it in Brussels. – It does not matter to them, the EU has nothing at all if Austria is particularly inventive in the bureaucracy. That's indifferent to them. This name, however, transports a certain message to Anti-Gold-Plating, and this message is not unwelcome for some, for the message is: Let's get to the back of our feet. We do not do everything they want in Brussels, or at least we do not, we are not obedient! And there may be an effect, an impression that some parties do not get inexorably at the EU election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17797	Mr De Vries has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17818	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The government submits its first anti-gold-Plating law. What's this about? – Austria has better protection provisions in many areas of life, better rules than the European Union. These are often achievements – achievements in consumer protection, achievements in food regulations, achievements in environmental standards, such as water quality. An example from Vienna: The waste water directive is overcrowded with us in Austria, and in my district, in the sewage treatment plant in Vienna-Simmering, the highest cleaning level is being installed, although the EU law is not required. However, in my opinion, water quality is an absolutely sacred good, and the water quality is, of course, the basis of national public health. The high protection provisions are, however, a thorn in the eye. I have here the list of 489 proposals for an anti-gold placement. Little surprising is who most proposals come from: Most of the proposals to reduce standards come from the Industrial Union. It is also interesting to note that the European Commission welcomes the Anti-Gold Plating very much. That's what I'm asking: What does the FPÖ say about this? What does the FPÖ say about adapting the Austrian standards to those from Brussels – in their eyes the bureaucracy, the political groups in Brussels – to these low standards of the European Union? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer]] And yes, this law also restores national control rules, one example we have already heard from Mr Wittmann, regarding the Investment Fund Act and the Property Investment Fund Act, where supervisory councils no longer approve part of it, but are only informed more. Finally, I would like to say: The SPÖ says yes to the reduction of bureaucracy. For us, however, a reduction in protection provisions in the food sector, in the quality of water, in consumer protection under the guise of the reduction of bureaucracy is of course not possible. We say a clear no to evade protection provisions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] We say a clear no to restore sensible control provisions. There is no consent to a group wishing concert from SPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17872	Mr Moser, Federal Minister, is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17894	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the debate that has outlined how positive it is to eliminate Gold Plating, and I would like to say very briefly: Mrs. Dr. Griss, Neos, too, have rightly filed a request in which they pointed out that Gold Plating is to be damaged and therefore not to be removed meaningful gold plating. – This is just a short comment. In general, I would like to point out that the government has set itself the goal of making Austria more citizen-friendly and efficient, to eliminate bureaucracy and, in particular, to deregulate in areas where there are excessive admission, communication and participation obligations and non-profit-making requirements. This package, which is on the agenda today, goes exactly the same way as the package that we have already decided in the context of legalisation, which has now deleted 2 500 laws and regulations from 5 000 laws and regulations. It is also going in the direction that we have carried out a skill adjustment for a clear federalism. I would like to thank the SPÖ for having also taken part in clarifying Austria and making it more transparent. With regard to Gold Plating, I should like to point out that I am of your opinion, Mr Witmann and Mr Wittmann. It should not go towards Gold Plating, i.e. an over-fulfilment of EU standards, so that, through national law, more complex and stricter measures are put in place in Austria than is provided for in the Union act. This overfill is to be eliminated, and for this reason – and this has already been mentioned by Mrs Steinacker – I have started a very participative procedure. I have, starting with the Chamber of Labour on Industrial Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the professional associations, the enterprises, the citizens, where they feel burdened in Austria. A total of 800 messages are received. Of these 800 messages, 300 were multiple messages. 500 messages are left. Of the 500 reports – and this has already been said by Mrs Steinacker – 300 have been released, because we do not want to reduce environmental standards, because we do not want to reduce worker protection regulations and because we do not want to reduce consumer protection regulations. There are therefore 200 provisions left and 40 of these 200 provisions can be found on today's agenda. Thus, unnecessary reporting, communication and verification obligations are eliminated. The remaining 160 provisions will also be reviewed on the following questions: What is the burden for the economy, for consumers, but also for citizens? And: What would be the advantage of an amendment for Austria, including with regard to employment and the financial market? This will be balanced and will be presented to you in the second half of this year. Then we will discuss whether my promise that environmental protection standards and worker protection standards will not be reduced, respected or not. Mr Rossmann referred to the area of the UGB amendments that this was actually nothing. I know that you are an expert; I know you from my 12 years of office as President of the Court of Auditors, but I know you before. I must say that this regulation creates legal certainty. So far, for example, if claims are likely to fail, one must not only calculate the probability of default, but also the fair value, the market value, which is very complex, because in these cases there is often no market value. Therefore, it is probably logical and necessary to go in the direction to calculate and represent the probability of failure. It goes in the direction that one does not calculate the subject matter of insurance and, on the other hand, also financial thematically when it comes to repayment reserves and anniversary grants. It is sufficient in this case to carry out a financial mathematical calculation. Or another example of waste management: For the sampling of waste and evaluations of investigations in landfills, a separate laboratory is currently needed, although enough other experts are available that could carry out exactly this finding – that is therefore not necessary. That's exactly what it's all about. Because you have also addressed the issue of savings interest rates and the like: Currently, banks have to depend on such information in the branches. In future, there will also be the option according to your intention, i.e. that the bank institution will either hang out or publish on the Internet to meet its customer wishes. It is not prescribed by law how one has to present its provisions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] As you say in this context that it is actually little, I would like to point out that I know that You will always see the European Commission's country report on the European Semester that the European Commission is particularly positive in its efforts to improve legislation and the simultaneous elimination of gold plating – of over-fulfilment of EU standards. In this context, I refer to point 3.4.4.4 “Quality of administration and governance”, which points out that this is the right way and that we should continue to follow this path – and that is what we are doing. Therefore, there will also be a second package in autumn, in which, among other things, reporting obligations, reporting obligations, and at the same time public disclosure obligations will be reworked and presented to you again. If, in this context, Mrs. Griss, it is said that only the term Gold Plating would suggest in this case that this would be, so to speak, EU-enemy and that we had resentments, I must say: The exact opposite is the case. The EU, the European Commission is always pointing out that there is red tape in Austria in particular, that Austria is overcoming EU standards, which is not necessary. The EU Commission also points out in the country report that I have just mentioned that Austria should bring about debureaucratisation arrangements – that is what we are doing. You know, I am an absolute proponent of the EU, I am a fighter for the EU and I certainly do not allow any action to be taken in the direction that this could be misunderstood, but rather it goes in the direction that the over-fulfilment that we have is not EU-related, but that we have adopted national regulations that do exactly what you have mentioned: that certain interests of the past have led to over-fulfilments that go to entrepreneurs and to citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to make another point, which Mr Wittmann, whom I very much appreciate, mentioned: He referred, among other things, to the Investment Fund Act. I would like to quote § 34 Real Estate Investment Fund Act: ‘The management of the investment company [...] shall establish fund provisions governing the legal relationship between the shareholders of the investment company for real estate and the deposit bank.’ The Fund provisions shall be ‘submitted to the Depot Bank for approval. Fund provisions need to be approved by the Financial Markets Authority’. – That means they're here once. If you look at the area of the Fund provisions – and I am going to do so – you can see that the EU Directive – I am referring to Directive 2009/65/EC – does not require these fund provisions to be approved by the Supervisory Board because they are part of the operational management and therefore do not require prior approval. [[Abg. Wittmann: The legitimate concerns of investors and not...!]] The reason why this has led to problems so far is that stock law only provides for four Supervisory Board meetings to be held in this case. This leads to the fact that decisions can only be made in the interests of investors for a delay in time, and that is to be eliminated. As the debate also mentioned that bonuses should be created for managers, I would like to point out that the fund provisions, including those already mentioned by Mrs Steinacker, are the remuneration, the administrative fee for the administrative companies, in particular - I say equally - in terms of the acquisition and sale of assets, the booking of interest and dividend payments as well as regulatory and tax reports and other measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] And these are public. [[Abg. Wittmann: (the arms stretching apart) Such a bandwidth!]] They are also transparent for investors and are also subject to competition. With regard to the remuneration of managers – which has already been mentioned – this is the responsibility of paragraphs 17a and 17a of the Investment Fund Act, and it is specified that this remuneration policy is very likely to be defined in the remuneration committee of the Supervisory Board. In other words, we have also made sure that this does not lead to transparency for the investor, but it is created in the interests of the investor. We will certainly continue the path we have taken so far. I am already looking forward to the discussion on the other 160 regulations, and I can assure you that this is not the aim of reducing environmental standards, worker protection standards or consumer protection standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e17990	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18011	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think you see clearly today the difference: We have acted under the motto: less bureaucracy, fewer rules, more freedom, more personal responsibility, fewer costs and more room for play. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] We hear from the opposition – except the NEOS –: more rules, more bureaucracy, more costs. [[Abg. Rosary: More taxes!]] I think the difference is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the Minister very much. And since Mr Rossmann asked why this was regulated in the Ministry of Justice: This is the Minister for Deregulation, so we have put a collective law on the table, and that is why all the points that we can deregulate or simplify in terms of deregulation are dealt with. I thank Mr Steinacker and Mr Stefan for the initiative and thank them for their implementation in this area. The process has shown: We have invited all stakeholders to register here, and there have been over 800 entries. That's a great result, and that you can't do all the registrations, it's also clear because you also have to evaluate them, but we've got the first 40 on the way. That is a good result and a first step in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen. I think you see very clearly: We pay off and we don't want to bother any more! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A little towards SPÖ, dear Peter Wittmann and colleagues: Summation You do not always call ghosts who are with this discharge and with this debureaucratisation at all! There are also laws that need to be brought to the height of time. Digitalisation has also taken place in Austria, and we take this into account in this law of deregulation. I think that's important and right. We must also grant consumers and users a spark of self-reliance and free self-determination, and I believe that is what happens. That is why, ladies and gentlemen – once again – a first step in the right direction. The Minister has announced: We will also take the second step. And that's why the difference is clear: While you stand for burden and bureaucracy, we continue our path very firmly: relieve instead of burdening, renewing instead of taxing. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18065	Mr Kassager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18086	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been reported in detail – the contents of this anti-gold-Plating law. One can discuss whether the title of the law is appropriate or not; relevant is what happens in terms of content. I would like to start by saying a little, because the discussion in advance does indeed provide an insight into the fundamental economic philosophy such as that of Mr Rossmann – once upon a time The Greens, now – given but also the SPÖ representative, who are constantly concerned that people are not protected – people belong to protected, in all areas – which unfortunately very often ignores that this possibly well-intentioned human-protected will ends in almost all cases or in very, very many cases in total overregulation and low regulation. It is simply a fundamental difference between your access and our access. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] We do not want to, nor do we believe that people, entrepreneurs, employees, employers in every area – between brackets: from themselves – must be protected because we believe that this ends in bureaucracy and in a flood of rules, that measure and goal are lost between the purpose of protection, the protection effect of the standard on the one hand and the effort that must be made to comply with this standard, which is partly huge, on the other hand. This relationship is lost. This will be done within the framework of Your economic policy seems to have a different assessment or is irrelevant, for us it is very, very important. The two components are: What is protected, what is an achievement?, and: Does what we have to do about the tables we have to fill out, the reports we have to make, the laboratories we have to set up, the guards we have to hire and pay in a relationship? This Federal Government has determined not only to look at the whole thing, not only to talk about it, but also to implement it very specifically in a project; in a project which is not yet complete, that is, to that extent it cannot be a big throw, Mr Wittmann, who is now present, but it is a first step in the right direction from our point of view. The aim is to relieve the economy – and thus also the workers – and thus make it more competitive. We want to get away from the state – I'm now speaking consciously in a picture language – where we see Austrian companies or entrepreneurs only when filling out forms, filling out messages and doing any tests. They should focus on the essentials of their performance, namely the product they produce, or the service they provide, and thus be internationally competitive. So this is philosophy, the basic idea of this government: look at it carefully. We are doing this very, very conscientiously – the Minister has already suggested it – and not across it. As a liberal, it is particularly important to stress here again that the achievements which we have in the field of worker protection, labour law, the environment, but also in the field of consumer protection are not, or are, very critically affected. The Freedom Party Becomes On the one hand, very, very critically take a look at it when it should go in the direction that one or the other is affected. That does not mean, however, that we have many areas – the Minister has already mentioned – which we look at: Notification obligations, reporting obligations, verification obligations, approval obligations and cetera. – This is the first step. Some 40 relief schemes will be decided by this first step. The second step, as the Minister has already mentioned, will be followed by further measures in the second half of 2019. That is to say, we are holding back what we have already decided in the government programme, we are now putting it into practice and, as it were, putting the Republic into a state where much is going to be possible – and I am quoting Mrs Steinacker now – which was not possible with the SPÖ. Many things are possible with the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18146	Mrs Salzmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18168	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectator at home in front of the screens! Gold Plating: What does that mean, my Ladies and gentlemen? – Gold Plating means increasing laws that comply with EU minimum standards in legal implementation to the extent that they actually exceed EU minimum standards. It is therefore national legislation which has been adopted on the occasion of an EU legislative act, in the normal case of an EU directive, but which goes beyond the objective that is set out, because it regulates more than the EU demands and thus makes the lives of Austrians difficult. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, however, that no Austrian protection standards, such as the regulations on workers' protection or the regulations on environmental protection or consumer protection, should not be withdrawn, even if the EU standards were already met with a lower standard. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we maintain 200 of these protection regulations despite over-fulfilment. Dear Peter Haubner, you've already been here at the speaker's desk. From this point of view, I would also like to express very consciously the thanks of our club and the government partner. Many years ago, as the Secretary-General of the Economic Federation, you started this major project as an engine, and – which is also important to mention – you have always looked at the interests of workers. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Anti-Gold-Plating Act covers those legal provisions that do not benefit the population and businesses. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not want any more, but we want less bureaucracy. Let me give you two examples: Companies must apply both thematic and financial valuation methods in the assessment of settlement obligations and of anniversary commitments. In the future, ladies and gentlemen, the financial assessment will be sufficient. A second example: Accounting is currently required to determine the risk of default and market value. In the future, the identification of the risk of default is sufficient. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking a first step – Mr Minister, you have already mentioned it, it is the first step and will be further follow – about 40 legal provisions back to a reasonable level, so that EU standards are complied with and thus save the population and businesses time and money. I would also like to thank you at this point, Mr Minister, and at your place of business, your staff members for this good cooperation in this legislative work. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, has a high standard of protection, which is the mother protection regulations, the holiday arrangements, the working time regulations, the whole consumer protection and the environment, and that is also good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is clear – and I stress this here again – that: bureaucracy will be reduced, but protection provisions will remain.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18241	The list of speakers is exhausted. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then we may come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 508 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever accepts this bill in third reading, I ask him again for a sign. - That's the same majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:26:40]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (561 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Law on Court Organisation, the Law on Fees, the Law on Experts and Interpreters and the Federal Administrative Courts (584 d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (560 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Jurisdictions, the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18302	We come to points 8 and 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18335	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Speaking of these changes, to which I will not say much at all, because, as far as the court organisation law and the expert and interpreter law are concerned, it is, of course, okay from our point of view. In principle, however, I believe that there should have been much more brain narrowing work in court fees and that the resistance of the government groups and also of the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Finance should have been somewhat more decisive. All the judges – including the judges in – here in the house know that the court fees in Austria are too high. [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] I would like to explain this to you on the basis of a very simple example. We talked a lot about hate on the net in the morning and the possibilities to act against it. The normal means of combating such things is a private contribution. Private funds have tripled access barriers within nine years of the court fees. If you want to make a legal decision on a private contribution today, you have to invest about 800 euros in order to make a decision. This is a barrier to access for people who are personally and privately affected, which in many cases cannot be overcome by many. I am very old-fashioned at all, I believe that law and security are fundamental activities of the state and should not be taxed at all. The State has the right to guarantee security and justice for all without requiring separate fees here. That is why I am very critical of this entire legal fee. The fact that the income on the part of the current regime is a certain day-to-day policy problem is clear to me, but there should be visions that change the situation. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is high time to reduce the court fees as barriers to justice and justice for all in Austria. Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[19:30]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18481	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mr Kühberger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18505	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! Austrian law has a special form of inheritance law, the so-called arbenrecht. This regulates by law the transfer of agricultural holdings so that they are not shared. So the goal is that there is no fragmentation of these family farms. The Anerbenrecht is governed, on the one hand, by the German Federal Law of Burgenland, Oberösterreich, Niederösterreich, Steiermark, Salzburg and Vienna, by the German Federal Law on Anerben from 1958, on the other hand in the Tiroler Höfegesetz from 1900 and in the Kärntner Erbhafengesetz from 1903. What is being changed in this U.S. law? – Until now, the pure forestry farms have not been found, which are now added. In addition, much has changed over the last decades. The last decree was in 1989, i.e. 30 years ago, and everyone knows what happened in agriculture at that time. The economic situation through structural change, engineering, mechanization and digitization makes it very difficult today for a family – almost two people – to live on a farm, while 30 years ago, for example, it was possible. With this novel, we will implement the change that the two people mentioned above will be put down to one person, with which it will become an inheritance yard. The amendments concern, on the one hand, pure forestry and, on the other hand, agricultural and forestry holdings, which are then not subject to a breakdown. How was that in practice? – In the case of courts that have been run for centuries by the same family, the risk of these being broken down in a normal succession. That is why it is very, very important – because the area is, after all, the basis of an operation – that one regulates this in this law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is simply regulated because it is important that we support these small-structured family businesses in Austria. I believe that this is also in our great interest here in this House, so that the young farmers can really manage properly, so that in the future we will still find an intact agriculture and forestry in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18554	The next item is Mrs Duzdar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18575	Mr President. Mr. Minister! We have already discussed in detail the Law on Court Organisation and the Law on Fees in the Committee and have already said that we will go there as SPÖ, because of course it is always good if there are reliefs for professional groups in the judiciary, for professional groups that are close to the judiciary. We therefore welcome this, of course, that it now improves for judicially sworn interpreters and also for court experts. It is also clear that we will have greater legal certainty as regards the introduction of written texts, and there will be equal rules in the civil field as well as in the administrative field, because there is no justification for this being handled differently. That's why we're going to go there. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is a small reform for us, because this change of law only solves the small problems while the big problems remain unresolved. For example, a long-standing demand from SPÖ has always been that there should be a better pay for interpreters and experts. This is about our democracy, our rule of law. If we want our rule of law to work well, then it must be worth it for us that interpreters, interpreters and experts are well paid accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But these are precisely those areas which are not dealt with at all, Mr Minister, and we have already announced that in committee. Then, of course, there is a big problem with the staff situation of the court experts. We know very well that many of these experts will retire in the next few years and it is our job to ensure that there are appropriate re-occupies. I find no solutions to this problem either. However, this is very systematic in the Federal Government, that one always only regulates small stories, but when it comes to dealing with big challenges, one leaves it unsolved. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, and ask you to really see in the future that there are substantial improvements in the field of justice, because we believe that far too little is happening. Nevertheless, we will go along with this change of law today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18623	The next item is the report by Mr Reifenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18645	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In this plenary debate, two agenda items on numerous legislative amendments are summarized and discussed jointly. I can therefore only take a few of them, which seem to me particularly important. The first point has already been raised, namely the abolition of security controls for experts and interpreters at the courts. This liberalisation is justified on the one hand. Why? – The experts and interpreters have a certain close relationship with the court, they are subject to strict disciplinary responsibility. You have to pass access tests, which are very strict. Therefore, there is also a certain selection, and they are – that is very essential – legally sworn persons. However, it is not only justified, but also important for them to be provided for an exception, because experts and interpreters often have very many and closely staged judicial appointments in their daily life and, of course, the security checks result in a certain delay of time. It is important that these groups appear on time at the negotiating dates, otherwise there may be procedural delays. It is different, however, from our point of view in the field of probationists. On the part of NEOS, there is a request in this respect that appeal agents should also be allowed an exception from the security checks. Parole workers are ordered by clubs and not legally sworn. They have no comparable strict disciplineal responsibility. As a rule, they do not have such narrow legal dates, and a delay in a court appointment is not harmful to the further proceedings. There is therefore no need to create an increased safety risk. One thing we need to be aware of: Any restriction of security controls means at least a potential increase in the safety risk, and it does not matter which professional group it is. There must therefore be a balance of interests which is positive in the case of interpreters and experts in the case of probationists. The second point is the extension of the law on the ground. It has already been mentioned, the Anerbenrecht is a special inheritance right in agriculture. It is especially dear to me personally, because I come professionally from the notary, work in a country notary and also work as an agricultural engineer. That is why I have a special close relationship with agriculture. This is where the right of the arrears is also extended to forestry farms. So far, this has only been the case for agricultural holdings. However, forestry is just as safe as agriculture, so there is a public interest in protecting these forests. In practice, it is also the case in the case of forestry companies that these farms are usually passed on to a child in an undivided manner, perhaps together with a child in law, but not to several children. It is precisely this undivided transfer that is at the heart of the right of the arben. In the future, the right of the arben will also be applicable to smaller farms, i.e. if they are large enough to obtain an adult person. So far They had to have a size to feed two people. This also makes it no longer necessary in practice for some art-handling by experts who have occasionally given it in order to protect agricultural and forestry farms. The third point is amendments to the Extraordinary Act. There is a simplified procedure in the leave process, which is called the transfer of payment. So far, it has been the case that privileged claims were the demands of judicial adult representatives, i.e. of former officers. Now this is extended to any legal representation at all. That is, if a legal representative has a claim, it is privileged. This means that this also applies to legal adult representatives, elected adult representatives and also curators. This makes sense in that the adult protection law was aimed at reducing the judicial adult representations, i.e. the authorities. In this respect, it is only a consistent continuation, a continuation of the adult protection law. My last point concerns the amendments to the Court Fees Act. There are some in practice very valuable clarifications in the course of multiple charges of deposit rights. It's been like this so far. If you have shared a property, you have written down a property, this property was taxed and you have made a change of ownership in the same landbook request – that is, you take out a property from a property, you give it to a child, for example, and this property is taxed – then the fee for the right to register has been applied a second time, although no new credit has been received. These are charges of 1.2 percent of the total amount of the deposit, so really quite proper fees. It is now absent that in such cases a second fee is charged. Another point: When property parts are added to a taxed property, it has been so up to now that a right fee has also been imposed. That's not gonna happen now. That is why we are creating legal certainty. In practice, this has led to quite unsightly results. In order to avoid these charges, one has often formed very small plots so that one could form one's own deposit, which was then not taxed. That is, one has often had very small deposits, which was completely pointless. Now you can summarize the plots and add deposits without causing a fee damage. Finally, from my point of view, it also prevents special unnecessary liability for contractors.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18706	Member Griss has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18727	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The positive first: It is very gratifying that the Federal Administrative Court is now also planning that electronic inputs are timely if they arrive on the last day of the deadline before midnight. It is actually incomprehensible why it has not been so far, since the postage stamp is sufficient. What is still missing are the national administration courts; I hope they follow. It is also positive that experts and interpreters must now also benefit from electronic legal traffic. That makes work easier. That's a good thing. But there is a wormhead drop, and the wormhead drop is that the interpreters So far, for the input they have made, 22.70 euros have been received, and now, for this electronic input, the fee is practically halved. I am already on the essential issue that I want to deal with – Mrs Duzdar has already mentioned this – which is the remuneration of interpreters, and this is disastrously low. Over the last ten years, it has not been adapted to inflation, it has been very low from the outset, and this also has negative consequences. These negative consequences are that the number of registered interpreters has halved from 1,400 to over 700 in the last ten years. If you look at the fees, you don't believe this, because for the hour about 25 euros come out – an extremely low amount. You won't find a craftsman who doesn't even look at this money half-way. The other is that this law on fees is still based on conditions as they existed in the 1970s. There's still the talk of punches that are honoured. I don't think the young people know what a breakthrough is anymore. The interpreters also work with computers for a long time. It is therefore urgently necessary that this be adjusted, that the fees be adjusted and that the interpreter's law be revised at all. I put forward a motion for a resolution to strengthen your position, Mr Federal Minister, with regard to the Minister for Finance, because I know that this is also your concern: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[We welcome the NEOS and Mr Haubner and Mr Kühberger.]] [[19:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18844	The application has been properly submitted and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18868	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! My statements also refer to the Anerben Act. This is a day of joy because For many years the farmer's claim is implemented in the adaptation of the Anerben Act. I have allowed myself to browse in the archives, and I have been able to browse the archives from the 24th century. In July 1958, I found an article from the “farmer’s newspaper” that I would like to quote – 1958, the year in which the U.S. Law has seen the light of the world: ‘The new Anerben Act: After more than ten years of negotiations, the National Council adopted on 21 December. The Federal Act on special provisions on the farming inheritance (Erbengesetz) was adopted in May”. – I can say: This time we were a lot faster. The second quote: "We welcome this warmest, because we believe that only in this way can we stop the fragmentation of agricultural assets and maintain a viable peasantry." I should like to thank all the political groups who voted in this House very much. I take this as a sign of appreciation, as a sign of appreciation for our small, rural, Austrian structures. I take this appreciation with my colleagues, so that we can do our best for our families in the future, with all our strength for this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We bring food, landscape, energy and raw materials, and we want to do so with all our strength in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18916	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18935	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Griss spoke in detail about court interpreters and also mentioned what I wanted to say. Maybe an additional information: These persons earn when they translate an entire page in writing, 15 euros. So in Austria, dogwalkers get more per hour when they go for a walk with three dogs for 1 hour. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] The fact that the fees have not been valorized since 2007 is, I believe, not easy to accept. We cannot afford to do so, we know that we need experts, interpreters and interpreters in justice, in the case law, for our rule of law, and I wonder why we have had this to be sanded for so long. This is not a small group, but a smaller and smaller one due to the payment. As Mrs Griss has said, the number has halved, and it is currently 781, I believe. There are 9 411 in 700 fields – 700 fields of expertise – which are generally sworn and certified by the courts. Also, 9 000 are not so many, and they are getting less and less. We should avoid that. I have an example here that you will receive 195,40 euros as a fee for a psychiatric opinion in the execution of the sentence, including all investigations. That's very little. It's really little. You have said several times that you will ensure that this is adjusted, only: Now it's going to be pretty slow really time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have our support, you have all parties support. We'll agree to this law, and then we'll do that, I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e18986	Mrs Jachs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19007	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I grew up in Freistadt in the Mühlviertel between the Wirtshauskuchl one grandparent and the farm of the other grandparents. As you may know, ladies and gentlemen, both the main table and the farmhouse are a central place of communication. That is why I know very well that there are fewer and fewer farms in our rural regions that can live from the yield of agriculture. In the district of Freistadt there are about 4 500 agricultural and forestry establishments, and many of my acquaintances are potential court transferees, but also court transferees. With today's novice of the Anerben Act, we attract the court handovers. My previous speakers have already said it: So far, a farm was a yard when it was used for the yield of at least two adult persons. However, this is increasingly rare in our time, as farmers and farmers have to manage the farm by-catch and go to work with family members more and more often. That's why I'm really happy that we're deciding on this novel today, because we're doing better. In the future, a farm will also be an inheritance court if it only serves more for the yield of an adult person. This may sound like a small thing, but, ladies and gentlemen, in practice this is quite relevant, because we know about the transfer procedures in the past, in which this previous regulation has led to a breakdown of operations. We are therefore making a concession to the changed realities of life in rural areas. Maintaining and improving the quality of justice is the motto that we are currently discussing. We also make it easier for interpreters and experts to access the court buildings. You don't have to pass the security lock in future, like lawyers. What is even more essential and what I would like to end by mentioning is that today we fix a mistake in the Federal Administrative Court Act, because with this novel, we make it possible for electronic inputs to be filed in time even outside the official hours of the Federal Administrative Court, which apply from 9 am to 3 pm. Ladies and gentlemen! That we're here today on this issue in the 21st century. Arriving in the 19th century, in particular, carries a manuscript, namely the manuscript of colleague Fürlinger, who knows from his experience, from the practice as a lawyer that the Internet is not only turned up in law firms between 9 and 15 o'clock, but far beyond.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19039	Mrs Wimmer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19065	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! In this new law, the generally sworn and judicially certified experts, interpreters and interpreters are excluded from the security control in courts. They now receive - like lawyers - uncontrolled access upon presentation of their certificates. In future, dates can be observed without delays. This amendment also regulates the mandatory use of electronic commerce by experts, interpreters and interpreters. The direct transmission of documents and opinions to the Court of First Instance thus corresponds to the current need for quick and short working procedures. So far, so good; these changes are of course also welcomed by SPÖ. However, there are shortcomings. Unfortunately, not all professional groups associated with the court are granted easier access. The main auditors shall be as trustworthy as experts, but shall continue to prove themselves and continue to be subject to the security provisions. As mentioned several times, a large construction site remains, that is the reward. The main association of court experts and the Austrian association of generally sworn and judicially certified interpreters criticise the draft federal law in their opinions. Unfortunately, this innovation does not at the same time address further urgent concerns that have been coming for years. Their remuneration is and remains far too low according to the will of the government. We are following this development with concern. The role of experts and interpreters is becoming increasingly complex and at the same time increasingly unattractive. Rates of fees have not been increased since 2007, i.e. for 12 years. However, in the same period, the court fees to be paid to the State were increased four times. Under these conditions, little more young people can be found. An ageing has already occurred and we fear a massive loss of quality in court proceedings in the future. Summary: The SPÖ will agree to this government proposal because of the first small improvements and simplifications in the judicial system. However, further steps are needed quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19106	Mr Moser, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19127	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for the fact that these proposals, which are now being discussed, will be approved by you on and for yourself. The only one who is still wavering, as it were, is Mr Noll. He pointed out, however, that the proposals to be put to the vote today were approved. However, he also pointed out the problem of fees, which undoubtedly exists. Especially in this area, we have met a long-standing demand of interpreters and court experts, so that access controls are no longer necessary for them in the future and therefore absent time. At the same time, because they will benefit from electronic legal services in the future, they will also be able to damage to the administration of the labour force. This is a correct step in the right direction, which also finds the consent of interpreters and court experts. In this context, for example, Mrs Duzdar pointed out – which is right – that it is a long-standing demand of the court experts and the interpreter that their fees be adjusted. Mrs Wimmer has also mentioned that an adjustment was the case last year in 2007. This has, of course, led to a reduction in compensation by 24 percent in inflation alone. Unfortunately, we have a young problem in this area. This is clear, and in this respect I have already approached the Minister for Finance, because we have to do something about fees and compensation for judicial experts and interpreters. Another example is that of a psychiatrist or a psychiatrist who reviews someone, has to produce an extensive opinion for this and receives a compensation of 118 euros. This is an aspect that needs to be addressed; and this will also be discussed very well in the context of the budgetary consultation. Another point that has been raised concerns security controls, i.e. that this is not also extended to other professional groups, such as those of the new start-up staff with which we are working very, very well. On the one hand, there is, of course, security, i.e. the legitimate interest of the staff and of all those in the court building, that security checks are also handled very restrictively with regard to the short-term incidents. On the other hand, of course, it is a wish that those who are in regular traffic with the court are very likely to be released from security controls. I would like to point out that there is also § 4 of the Law on Court Organisation, which points out that, in this case, only under extremely limited conditions is one removed from the security controls. More recently, only interpreters and court experts are covered by the relevant rules of the Law of the Court of Justice, and the others cannot be included. - That was an explanation. Another aspect that has also been raised by honourable Members Noll – and that will perhaps convince him to agree – is that the multi-remuneration, for example in the case of pledge rights, will also be eliminated, with already implementation of the circumstances under which this is happening. Access to justice is also to be improved by no longer chargeable by contacting judicial authorities. This will improve access to justice and justice. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] You know that we are also currently implementing digitalisation in the area of justice, introducing the digital citizens' service platform, and at the same time going in the direction that all file insights can also be carried out electronically and so on. That is, we are doing everything we can to bring justice closer to citizens or to facilitate access to justice. It is also found in the template – you know – some conceptual adjustments. A requirement is also that the terminology of the adult protection law also applies to provisions in the field of the law of the anteriors, the Extraordinary Law, the We shall also implement the Insolvency Rules. Mrs Griss, you have referred to the fact that we are eliminating an abuse. So far, electronic inputs to the Bundesverwaltungsgericht were not deemed to have been submitted in time when they were introduced outside the official hours on the last day of the deadline; but this was done with a written note, which was provided with a service or post on the last day – at 23 a.m. – it was in time. That is, we have eliminated this abuse. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] You are right, in this context the rules on the national administration courts are still missing. But we have a reform of the AVG, which will be presented in the second half of the year. This will also include this alignment or this post-privileg will also be extended to these entries. I believe that this is a package that is closed in itself, which brings more transparency, brings closer to the citizens, and at the same time goes in the direction, even to relieve those involved. That is why I would like to thank you once again for your approval. Further steps will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19212	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19237	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to repeat a lot, my previous speakers have explained this in detail. We, too, will not object to the extension of the anti-virgin law and will therefore give our assent to this government proposal as it did in the Committee. Especially in my native country of Tyrol, agriculture and forestry are small-structured and mostly present in mixed forms, therefore would have been desirable to take into account the incentive of the Tyrolean state government and at least to include a formulation that includes mixed farms explicitly. This may be minor in this case, but it is symptomatic for the Acting by this government, this majority of governments: Good proposals are ignored or postponed with words and pushed to the long bank. At the last meeting of the Committee on Justice, this was the case in a group of applications on violence protection – and yet today, in the early afternoon, everyone has confirmed the importance of the protection of women's rights to violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Terriblely many acts of violence and murders of women in the family environment have happened again last year and unfortunately this year – Austria is in the forefront of Europe. In the following, Mr Minister, I expressly take you out; You don't, that's really commendable. But what are the members of the Federal Government doing? – You use this theme to stage an empty PR show. The Black and Blue Federal Government is very large in announcing violence measures. There is no concrete action, on the contrary: The opposition's applications are postponed – sit out, move, close eyes! Violence against women will only become the issue for the government if it can serve as an anti-foreigner. This government is obviously not interested in serious measures. This is a policy of headlines, as we always note, and unfortunately, women and children affected by violence have nothing at all. This also applies to a request concerning “compulsory anti-violence training in violence against women and domestic violence”, which we have tabled. Our requests for abuse in sports and cultural institutions, data collection on domestic violence, and the development of victim protection-oriented work have also been postponed. [[Abg. Haubner: Probably bad applications!]] I therefore appeal to the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ: Don't leave it in empty words, don't be vain to accept the good proposals of the opposition and finally act! A life without violence is a human right.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19281	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. That is why we shall now proceed to the votes I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law, which amends the Law on Court Organisation, the Law on Fees, the Law on Experts and Interpreters and the Federal Administrative Law, together with the title and receipt in 561 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this, for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law the consent in third reading, I am looking for a sign. – The draft law is therefore unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr.in Griss, colleagues, on 'Evaluation of the appropriateness of the rates of fees of the Fees Act'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft Civil Law and Civil Procedure Amending Act 2019, including title and receipt in 560 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who, at third reading, agree to a corresponding sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Noll, Mr Wittmann, Mr Griss, Mr Griss, on 'the budget for reducing court fees'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. [[20:09:16]] 10. Point Report by the Justice Committee on Amendment 463/A by Dr Irmgard Griss, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Liability of the Local Authorities and of the Other Authorities and Institutions of Public Law for damages to be incurred in the execution of the Law (Law of Detention - AHG) (586 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19386	Now we reach the 10th. Agenda item. There has also been no oral reporting in this respect. First of all, Mrs. Dr.in Irmgard Griss is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19416	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of this proposal? . This request is about closing a legal gap. What is this legal vulnerability? – This legal vulnerability is that there is no remedy if an official spreads facts that damage the credit, acquisition or advancement of someone, and he has known or had to know their untruth. This is § 1330 para. 2 ABGB, credit damage. There is no possibility of this being done by an official in the field of sovereignty administration. Elsewhere, in the private administration, there is a civil injunction claim against officials; in normal life under private and in the economy there is a right of injunction. There is therefore a kind of immunity for officials in the field of sovereignty administration. What could be the justification for this? – The justification could be that it is said that an official cannot exercise his activity if there is a risk that he can be used for claims that are credit-damaging and whose untruth he knew or had to know. I hope that can't happen. It has been said in the Committee that if there is such an injunction claim, then judges or prosecutors in the courtroom could no longer say what they want to say. So I've been a judge for more than 30 years, but I haven't had it that there's a need for judges or prosecutors to make statements that are credit-damaging and whose untruth they knew or had to know. So I do not believe that this danger does not exist. But even if they were, you could say yes at any time: The exception are allegations of fact made in the field of the jurisdiction of judges or prosecutors. That would not contradict. There is an area of sovereignty in which it is possible to take action against such statements, which is in the field of the FMA. If the FMA spreads such claims, which are false, the person concerned can resist them. The rules are laid down in the Banking Act and also in the Securities Supervisory Act. Otherwise, however, there is no such thing in the administration – and that is a legal breach. Let's look at Germany! How is that in Germany? – In Germany, there is an injunction claim. That is to say, it can be done against the officials – and such a possibility should exist with us. However, one can of course discuss whether a right of injunction against the officials is the right way. In this regard, we have a different system from the Germans at the time of our arrest. We have the principle that there is a right of compensation against the State, i.e. not directly against the officials. That is to say, one could also imagine that in such cases there is a claim for intangible compensation that is directed against the Federation. But you have to consider that, you have to weigh it. What I think is unacceptable is that the citizens are helplessly delivered such statements. There is a danger, and the danger has increased, because there are more and more political officials who, in the first place, do not understand themselves as a government servant, but as a servant of a particular party – therefore, a legal protection must be created. However, in order to make it possible to go a different way than that set out in this proposal for an initiative, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the NEOS and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[20:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19572	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Klaus Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19600	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! Mrs Griss! The Austrian law of liability is something that protects citizens from misbehaviors, guilty misconduct of a high-level civil servant – up to the judge of the second instance. In the event of damage to property, the injured person may then contact the Republic. If he wins the trial or if the Republic acknowledges it, the property damage is to be paid. This right of liability knows – and you have correctly established this – no right of injunction for any statements. However, I have certain doubts that there is really a practical legislative proposal. It is also not known to me as an interested newspaper reader that the Austrian civil service, for which I am able to break a lance here, is characterised by the fact that it is in any way damaging to the citizen seeking legal aid or to the official citizen by means of credit-damaging statements. No such cases are known to me. I also believe that at the time of expression and there or there a certain degree of serenity can be shown. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In particular, if some member of an association or of an NGO with a so-called political official – as you have said – is publicly sociable, the official's response is not immediately a credit damage. Sometimes you can also defend yourself. And there's a clear border, that's the criminal law, the evil renunciation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] All of this also applies to officials, and this protects the citizens and those who feel burdened by any expression. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we need that. I do not think it would be right to break through the regime of official arrest so as to have direct effect on officials or judges. Nor do I think that we have to make exceptions again, that we will then take the judge out again. I don't think that's very practical. I do not believe that it is necessary for us to create this claim and that Austrian law of liability is sufficient. I've seen bigger loopholes than these.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19651	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19675	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, I'm seamlessly hooking up here. I, too, believe that our law of official liability is in principle properly formulated, namely in such a way that, if the citizen is harmed by an official, one turns to the state. The State must pay the compensation and may then at any rate contact the officials in the internal relationship. This makes sense that officials cannot be directly pressured by a citizen. If you say that's now taken out of the air or you've never seen an official acting accordingly: Yes, it is, because there is no such possibility until now. Only the theoretical possibility that the official could be sued, i.e. the threat: Well, if you make that decision now, I feel damaged and then I complain to you; and I can complain directly, so you have a problem right now!, but would lead to a real influence. That's why the Austrian system has been kept: The official is once in principle protected. If the citizen is damaged, he turns to the state, and then there is indirect access – otherwise, to make that clear again, there is always a possible threat to the officials: If you don't make a decision as I want now, I'll sue you! – That would break your request, Mrs Colleague. We don't think that's right. This is a system change that would cause a real deterioration, and therefore it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19706	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19732	Madam President. Federal Minister! We rejected Mrs Griss's request in committee because we found that he was textual, non-conform. With what has been presented to us today as a motion for a resolution, we can live well. To colleagues Fürlinger and Stefan two memories: It's not – how am I supposed to say? This is a quote from two OGH decisions from 1997 and 1999. It was the Supreme Court of the Republic of Austria, which has entered into its judgment and has found this legal vulnerability expressis verbis verbis: In this respect, Austria is both in line with the MRP and with the international standard, and it is only in its own jurisdiction and ability not to close this legal gap. You can also argue about that, of course. The Supreme Court has repeatedly found crime gaps, only when it concerns legal gaps, it is unable to close them. It's a chapter of its own. But please ask colleagues Fürlinger as well as colleagues Stefan: Not Mrs Griss or I am now claiming that there would be a gap – that is what the Supreme Court says. And in fact, there is this gap. I am fortunate to be one of the lawyers who lost the Leading Case in 1999. At that time we complained against the Cult Office in Austria, and at that time the Supreme Court told us exactly that. Of course, there are officials within the framework of the High Authority who make fact-finding claims about ordinary citizens! – And why should this be allowed? The fact that the ÖVP and the FPÖ are now here condescending the official state and appealing as if something would never happen as far as civilians are concerned, indignant or damaged in credit is surprising to me. I mean, this gap can be closed, and it should be closed with all the caution and unscrupulousness that I also trust in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19772	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 586 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr.in Griss, colleagues on 'Law gaps in the law of the Member States'. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[Federal Minister Moser agrees by hand by President Bures.]] - Thank you, Minister, good evening. [[20:23:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-04-24-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00070_d8e19836	I announce that self-employed applications 718/A(E) to 769/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 8.24 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
