ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e11585	Ladies and gentlemen! I got the 88. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, declared open. I welcome you after the summer break. I hope that you have thought energy so that we can deal with the next session with great serenity and with a corresponding sense of responsibility. I can warmly welcome the visitors to the gallery, the representatives of the media and, in particular, the spectators at home in front of the television sets. [[10:19:32]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2019
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e11615	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 6. August 2019 in accordance with Art. 28 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 10th. September 2019 at its regular meeting of the XXVI. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. [[10:20:01]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of the Federal Minister a. D. Rudolf Hundstorfer
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e11642	At the beginning, I can remind you of a personality that is different a few days ago, totally unexpected for their family, which we want to meet with our participation in a very special way – many of you have already done so at the time of the funeral. They all know: It's about Rudolf Hundstorfer. [[Those present rise from their seats.]] Rudolf Hundstorfer was a politician who was not only a member of the National Council and minister, but was mainly involved in professional representations: He has dedicated his entire life in a very special way to the trade union movement. He was convinced of the social partners. He was convinced of the need to represent the interests of his colleagues not only in the field of the Vienna municipal staff, but far beyond. Finally, he became head of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in a special situation: at a time when many might not have had the confidence to the extent that the trade union association and the movement presented themselves. Rudolf Hundstorfer finally understood it precisely for the trade union movement, through his personal approach to challenges – with calmness, contemplation and, above all, with a special personal attitude, the commitment and, above all, an objective discussion – to make that forget what had happened again. Rudolf Hundstorfer was also a parliamentarian of a very special kind. He was a member of the Vienna Landtag, he was the first chairman of the Vienna Municipal Council for a long time, and the discussion in the political bodies, in the law-making bodies, was always a high concern to him, whether as a representative or later as a minister. The discussion, the discussion, was a very essential part of his political work for him, although he was, in most cases, very firm in his conviction; I was able to experience it even in many negotiations with him. But he was never injuring, he was never intertwined, and he also kept involving and appreciating the opinions and considerations of the others. Even though he has not followed these opinions and considerations, he has, in the end, also given the dissidents the feeling of being valued, of working together in joint reflections and, finally, of helping us to get closer together to addressing the challenges and solving the problems of our society. Finally, I can also briefly sketch Rudolf Hundstorfer as a human being. Many of you have known him for early days as a travel companion, some have perhaps only experienced him in passing, but everyone who has met him – this has expressed the great number of mourning guests – was taken by his personality: from his kindness, from his openness. I have never experienced him in a situation in which he was cruel or did not bring to people his personal respect. Of course, he was also a typical Viennan – always a little bit with a moustache on the lip, with an eye twinkler, with the statement not to take that so weighty. In the encounter, too, he was someone who kept trying to loosen up the situation by letting in personal experiences or by telling stories. Rudi Hundstorfer was a very great personality as a human being, and this also brought him in his professional and political activity the recognition he deserved. As a minister, as a Member of Parliament, as a trade unionist, we will always preserve an honorable memory of him. Our participation applies to his family and his immediate circle of friends. We will not only remember him, but we will also see it as his legacy, not to forget the human in the political discussion. [[Those present persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e11700	The Official Protocols of the 84th and 85ths. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy. July 2019 as well as the unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 86th and 87th protocols. 3rd As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported today. Daniela List, Dr. Peter Wittmann, Hans-Jörg Jenewein, MA, Mag. Gerhard Kaniakund Andrea Michaela Schartel. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e11743	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12047	I should like to point out that the agenda item 21 in the Aviso, resolution 969/A(E), has been withdrawn. This has been taken into account on the agenda accordingly, and the following items have therefore been renumbered. I would also like to take this into account when submitting applications and requests. I can also say that the Seventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12074	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4173/J by Dr Pilz, colleagues to the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice, Dr Dr. Dr. h.c. Clemens Jabloner, concerning ‘Cyber attack, disinformation attack and other affairs’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12098	I can tell you that Member Dr. Scherak has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on application 58/A a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. I can also report: Mr Krisper requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on application 704/A(E) be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. September 2019 to be set up. Member Dr. Krisper has also requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on application 705/A(E) be limited to 24. September 2019 to be set up. Deputies Mag. Loacker has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to the application 827/A a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Krisper requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on application 976/A(E) be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. September 2019 to be set up. Member Dr. Krisper has also requested that the Justice Committee report on the application 979/A(E) a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Krisper has also requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 981/A(E) a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Deputies Mag. Stefan, colleagues, requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the proposal 868/A be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection until 23. September 2019 to be set up. The Members of Parliament also have power. Stefan, ladies and gentlemen, requests the Constitutional Committee to report to the application 870/A a deadline until 23. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA, requested that the Health Committee report on the application 878/A on a deadline until 23. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA has also requested that the Health Committee report on the application 854/A a period of time until 23. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA, also requested that the Health Committee report on the application 877/A on a deadline until 23. September 2019 to be set up. Mr Lueger, fellow Members, asked the Committee on Internal Affairs to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. September 2019 to be set up. In addition, Members of Parliament requested that the Building Committee report on amendment 516/A on a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. I should also like to say that Members, Mr Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, have asked the Committee on Equal Opportunities to report on motion 471/A(E) for a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. I should like to say that Members Sandler, colleagues and colleagues have asked the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to report on the application 130/A for a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. In addition, Members of Parliament requested that the Committee on Justice report on application 953/A be sent to the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights for a period of 24 years. September 2019 to be set up. I should also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on Amendment 947/A be submitted to the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development for a period of 24 years. September 2019 to be set up. In addition, Members of Parliament requested that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry report on Amendment No 532/A(E) be sent to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for a period of 24 months. September 2019 to be set up. Members Androsch, ladies and gentlemen have requested that the Health Committee report on the request 860/A to the Health Committee on a deadline of 24 June. September 2019 to be set up. In addition, Mr Preiner, colleagues, asked the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on Amendment 344/A(E) to the Council for a period of 24 years. September 2019 to be set up. I should also like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on request 896/A(E) for a period of time until 24. September 2019 to be set up. I hope that all requests for deadlines have been read. The motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I can announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. Afterwards, the broadcast takes place online in the TV library. New is an interactive media library on the Parliament's homepage, through which this session can be followed live. We have already published it. In addition to the already known live stream, there is now also the possibility to download the speeches of the individual delegates as a video-on-demand. I'm asking you to make some of it, too. I am really grateful to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate for the fact that this could be implemented so quickly. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12194	In order to be able to negotiate items 25 and 26 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 25 and 26 are the reports of the Immunities Committee – that was the reason that we started so late: because the committee has spoken more than planned – on the request of the Procuratorate Linz for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz (693 of the Supplements) and on the request – also – of the Procuratorate Linz for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Efgani Dönmez, PMM (694 of the Supplements). I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – That is unanimous. That is why the request has been accepted. I warmly welcome our youngest participant in the meeting – I have not noticed it until now. [[towards Abg. Feichtinger holding her baby on her lap]] [[Call the SPÖ:Participant!]] A so quiet baby! Congratulations on the birth of your child! [[General condolences.]] There were often joyous occasions during the holidays to welcome children. On this page we are missing another one, maybe it will come next time. [[towards Abg. Jachs]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12245	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 10, 15 to 18 as well as 20 and 21 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection to this summary? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12266	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed. The speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 167, SPÖ and FPÖ each 149, NEOS and NOW 50 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 25 minutes, the speaking time per debate is limited to 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign on this matter. In the morning, movement is good. - Thank you. That is unanimous. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:36:02]] 1. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12313	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. In view of Mrs Alma Zadić's refusal, the choice of a folder or a folder must be made. The proposal of the JETZT club for the folder to be elected is presented to Member Dr Wolfgang Zinggl. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. Is there any objection to the vote? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. If you agree to the vote, I would ask for a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. [[Abg. Jarolim: But can he do that?- Oh, my God!]] I would ask you, Mr Jarolim, to take up the evidence that: They are powerful in order. - Thank you very much. [[10:37:07]] 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on amendment 984/A by Mr August Wöginger, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fees Act 1957, the Income Tax Act 1987, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Motor Tax Act 1992, the Electricity Tax Act, the Gas Tax Act, the Energy Tax Tax Act, the Energy Tax Act, the Standards Consumer Tax Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Tax Act, the Administrative Aid Act, the Alcohol Tax Act 1995, the Mineral Oil Tax Act 1995, the Tobacco Monopol Act 1996, the Punciation Act 2000, the Housing Funding Contribution Act 2018, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Financial Compensation Act 2017 (Taxation Reform Act 2020 – StRefG 2020) (687 d.B.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the War Victims Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Vaccination Act, the Crime Victim Law, the Home Victim Pension Act, the Pension Act 1965, the Bundestheater Pension Act and the Bundesbahn Pension Act (Pension Adjustment Act 2020 – PAG 2020) (688 d.b.) 4. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law establishing the Federal Law on a grant of purpose due to the abolition of access to assets in the accommodation of persons in permanent care facilities for the years 2019 and 2020 (689 d.b.) 5. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Federal Law on a Law on the entrance into the Foundation (StiftEG) (690 e.g.) 6. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (691 d.b.) 7. Question by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, Mr Josef Muchich, Mr Muchitsch, Mr President, on the abolition of special pension privileges (974/A)(E) 8. Question No by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich, by Josef Muchitsch, Members of Parliament on the legal anchoring of the disbursement of 13th and 14th Monthly salary (975/A)(E) 9. Question by Mr Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, Mr Cots, on the improvement of personal assistance (508/A)(E) 10. Point report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 983/A by Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that lays down the Digital Tax Act 2020 and the EU Regulatory Code, as well as the Income Tax Act 1988, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Federal Tax Code, the Federal Tax Code, the Advertising Tax Act 2000, the Common Report Standard Act, the Financial Balance Act 2017 and the EU Law on Official Assistance (Debtsammendungsgesetz 2020 – AbgÄG 2020) (686 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12406	We now come to Agenda items 2 to 10, on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to the various items of the negotiations, I can refer to the agenda. With regard to applications 974/A(E) and 975/A(E), a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs was set at 1. August 2019 set. With regard to application 508/A(E), the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs until 12. ==References== These are agenda items 7 to 9. There is no need for reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12450	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we commemorate a great man, a politician, but also a great trade unionist, who has been greatly appreciated throughout all the party borders and is still appreciated – we have heard this today again. Why? – Because he breathed a large portion of humanity to the essence of politics by his actions, by his being. It was like hardly anyone else for what made Austria strong, and what makes Austria still strong today, namely the dialogue, the balance, the co-operation and the social partners. Austria, ladies and gentlemen, was always the strongest when we held together. Austria was always the strongest when we worked together on a project for the future, and Austria was always the strongest when we took all the people in Austria, regardless of age, origin, religion or money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if we are discussing the tax reform today, this is exactly what we are talking about: How do we manage to take all people in Austria into a good, just and life-worthy future? That's not a technical question, that's not a question of arithmetic, no, that's a highly political question. Ladies and gentlemen! On this issue we have a wrong situation in Austria, because it is the workers who are currently training 80 percent of the total tax burden in Austria. As a doctor, I can tell you: If there is something out of balance in the body, then the body becomes ill. [[Abg. Kickl: Very biological!]] So it is not only with an organism, so it is also with a society. It is precisely because of this that it is necessary to ensure a fair and fair balance, which creates a balance; but what is available today is not. [[Abg. Kickl: That was the popular body now!]] Part of this tax reform, which is particularly important to us, is also proposed as a social security bonus. Is it fair that it concerns only one group, namely the self-employed and farmers who, a year earlier than the workers of our country, receive a discharge on their social security contributions? - No, that's not fair. [[Abg. Haubner: Tell the truth!]] We are making a concrete proposal today, which not only benefits those groups but all in Austria, all employees in Austria, not at some point in time, but now. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But it goes even further: One of the main points of our tax reform is the discharge of EUR 5 billion for workers. We know that our economic growth is the result of the hard work of the Austrians, and the Austrians should also be able to live well from their work. We also know the following: Everything gets more expensive, the housing and rental prices double, the purchase becomes more expensive, to life remains less and less. That is why we propose measures that will make work more worthwhile in the future: with a minimum wage of EUR 1 700 in Austria; and the first EUR 1 700 tax-free for all, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] What does that mean? What does that mean for the individual employee? – This means more than EUR 1 100 in the bag per year for all people in Austria. This package of measures should not come at some point, but it should come quickly and it should be safe, because the economic researchers' forecasts are clear. They clearly say that our economic growth is running out, and they say that unemployment may rise again by the end of the year, or that in certain age groups such as the over 50 years of age has risen again. Yes, it was the Social Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, who already drew attention to these initial forecasts in March of this year and warned of this development. What do you have? You made it, dear ÖVP and FPÖ? - You ignored it. They spoke of panic, when in March of this year we used the first economic research forecasts and said that we now have to counter them. Today, the experts give us the right, and you, too, give us the right that the development is one that we need to counter. Not just that: We also want to invest in the economy, we want to invest in the economy that creates jobs very specifically, and we want to support precisely those sectors of the economy with a tax relief of 1 billion euros. We want to support the economy and strengthen employment by boosting consumption by 1 700 euros of tax-free revenue. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's create more justice, and above all: Let us strengthen our cohesion! Let us strengthen our social peace in Austria, just as Rudolf Hundstorfer has always done – but not only he, but also many of his colleagues on the employer's side, dear ÖVP! In spite of all political differences, they have always pursued a common goal: social compensation in Austria, social peace in Austria and the common progress towards a common, strong Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12539	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12560	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What we are implementing today is the first part of the tax reform package. We start with the discharge of low incomes. What we have promised, ladies and gentlemen, is the policy of the People's Party in recent years, which is politics today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's where he has to laugh!]] We relieve the low-income people, and I also thank the Freedom Party for bringing this package together. For example, a pensioner with an income of 1 100 euros gross is relieved with 200 euros per year, a seller with 1,200 euros gross earnings, a part-time worker in this area, with 300 euros per year. This is a targeted discharge that we continue here to reduce the tax rate towards 40 percent, and in the case of the low-earners, this is only about the reduction of health insurance contributions or the reimbursement of social security contributions. – And Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, that we also benefit the self-employed and farmers, that is justice in the system, it has earned all professional groups, ladies and gentlemen, that they are relieved! [[Call the SPÖ:But not before!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can't understand what's going to be bad at that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] When you were a minister in 2015, we decided with you a tax reform – starting from 2016 – with which we raised the social security refund for workers from 110 euros to 400 euros – and at that time it was a very great project, and it was good and right. Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, who was good and right four years ago, can't be bad today, and workers are being reimbursed up to 300 euros, and that is the easiest administrative way, namely in the case of employee employment – and for all occupational groups, the starting date is 1.1.2020. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Too late! Too late!]] This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] We have also set discharge steps in other areas, for example, the small business size limit will be increased to 35 000 euros; we also raise the depreciation limit for low-value goods from 400 to 800 euros, because many annoys it, for example, that a mobile phone cannot be written down in one year. It also includes smaller environmental measures, such as the redesign of the NOVA and the motor-related insurance tax, taking into account CO2 emissions, renewable energy benefits, incentives for electric bicycles and service cars, and a reduced tax rate for electronic newspapers and books. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first part, the first package of this tax relief. In turn, we start with people with low incomes, because they also need it most – whether this is the seller, whether they are the employees in the gastronomy and in the craftsmanships or whether they are our pensioners. Yes, our farmers, as well as the small businesses, deserved to be relieved. It's a good package, it'll lower the tax rate, and we'll give people back what they deserve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this package, we are also discussing the 2020 pension adjustment, and I am grateful that we have achieved a common result at the Pension Summit – and thanks also to our very active representatives in the Senior Pension Associations. [[Abg. Loacker: You can thank the contributors!]] Mr Loacker, this is important to us. In rural areas in particular, we see that we have many pensioners who do not even have to reach a maximum of EUR 1 000; therefore, it is fair and necessary to increase small and medium-sized pensions. The fact that there is a doubling is necessary because people need this income at the end of the day to find it. Those who have worked for a lifetime, my own Ladies and gentlemen, he must not be stupid in the pension! That is why we have made a proper pension adjustment, especially the lower section, which is also strengthened by 3.6 percent, so that the purchasing power is given to our pensioners. A warm thank you to the older generation for building our country so that it can hand over this country to us. Thank you also for your lifelong commitment! That is why this pension adjustment is good and correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The following must be said: With a gross pension of EUR 1 000, we talk of more than EUR 500, which will add to the 2020 pension adjustment in one year. Then you have to mention the first part of the tax relief, i.e. the reduction of health insurance contributions, in addition, that is again around 200 euros. So in the future a pensioner, a pensioner with about 1 000 euros of income, will have more available at 700 euros per year – if this is not a proper discharge, ladies and gentlemen! People will feel that, and it is necessary to decide in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you spoke about common ground in your speech. It is certainly not a common approach if you make amendments to this tax reform package in a night and a fog action. [[Abg. Lighten: Ah, that's something new! You never did that!]] . Well, Mr. Leichtfried, you don't have to tell me here anymore that we have to comply with Usances if we get amendments in the early part of the amendment, whose follow-up costs are likely to break the billion limit – it is expected by our experts – so there is no common ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] It is irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, if today additional requests are made, whose follow-up costs, as I have said, will at least spew up the billions' limit. Who's to pay for this? – This will be at the expense of the next generations. This is pure casino parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We said we were going another way. Now the voters and voters are speaking. We want to implement the second package of tax relief after choice, which is the tariff reduction of the lower three tariff levels to 20, 30, 40 percent. This means that the location will be secured by reducing corporate tax also in the area of the economy. We want to exempt the employee participation of 3 000 euros per year, less taxes on overtime according to the principle: Performance must pay off!, the abolition of cold progression and the relief of the economy and the location. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Ah! Ah!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our way. Now the electorate is on the floor, and then new concepts can be adopted, taking into account the revenue we have in our state. You are putting up the budget for the next few years with what you have presented here today. It's irresponsible what you're bringing in here! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we are going the way of responsibility, we want to continue this successful path as well, and whoever wants to accompany us on this path also in the future and who wants Sebastian to be Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria again briefly, please also choose the People's Party so that Austria can go into a good future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12763	Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12784	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into what Mr. Klubobmann said before me, I would like to mention that I have my tenth wedding day today and that my husband – not only now, but especially in these times – is truly grateful; I would like to extend it to him. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] – Thank you, Peter Pilz, for not celebrating! [[General hustle and bustle.]] - Well, I like doing it. Mr Wöginger, who sits in the glass house, should not throw stones. I actually got through the head when I heard your speech. Obviously, breaking the billion limit is okay when it comes from the ÖVP; it's not okay when it comes from other parties. – I say something to you: All in all, it's just not okay what you're doing here today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The discharge of human beings is very much needed. I am already so accustomed to the Taferls by the many confrontations and to show that what you always say – you have relieved people – is not true, I want to show you something: Their past federal government has even pushed the tax rate up. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a bar chart with the 2017 levying rates is shown – 41.9 percent – and 2018 – 42.2 percent.]] 2018: 42.2 percent – that's not how high it was for a long time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is, the discharge of Austrians, who simply pay too much taxes, is something quite, quite necessary. But what do you want? You're doing it today? – Instead of putting measures on the side of discharge, once again distribute very expensive electoral sugar, and there you are all there – all in it. Although they already conjure up in Sunday's speeches or months ago, how necessary it is to deal responsibly with the budget, responsibly with the budget, but if you then have the election day in mind and obviously dominates the fear of constituency, then this becomes quite, very quickly, a very bitter irration. What we see today is nothing more than this irration, oblivion and – yes! – Finally, a blow to the face of young people. First of all, I would like to focus on what we think is good, because we also find parts very good. So the discharge of small businesses is certainly important, urgently necessary, we have also long called for it, just as the bureaucratic discharge by increasing the limit for low-value goods. But what we do not agree with is that there should be very expensive measures now, here and today, with a total cost of 10 billion euros to 2027 – that at a time when we can read almost every day that Germany is threatening a recession. [[Abg. Hauser: Interesting because NEOS... very interesting!]] I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that you have the election day in mind, you have in mind your own election results, but not the well-being of the Austrians and not even the well-being of the next generations or those who work, because they have to pay the token. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You stand out here and say how good you as parties are not: Isn't that great how good we are to you people what we give you? – Knowledge They are what the Austrians can do: they are themselves knocking on their shoulders, because they are the workers, the taxpayers who finance all of this; the contributors who finance all of this. So what they should do on the election day is to celebrate themselves properly, and not the parties who constantly believe they can distribute something in good Lordenmanier before an election. [[Abg. Steinacker:... does not grow on trees!]] A headline before the election that costs 10 billion euros by 2027 is probably the most expensive headline we have had for a long time. discharge instead of sugar, that would be our way. I heard it again today, and I hope the Austrians have heard it again: the abolition of the cold progression. Her top candidate Sebastian Kurz has already said, so soon it won't come. I'll tell you something. The Austrians have now learned that the promises of ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ do not apply in this respect. We are the only ones who are trying again today to eliminate the cold progression. Take a heart and join you! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A second aspect that is still very important to me: Taxation is also taxed. But what is completely lacking in this approach to this tax reform is not only the thought of the next generations in economic terms, but also, above all, in environmental terms. All of you have not understood the urgency of the issue of combating climate change, because you are not prepared to carry out an ecologisation of the tax system by awarding a price of CO2 emissions and pollution. [[Call the FPÖ: That's why we have you!]] I always say, Be courageous, it is possible to make it non-profit, to relieve the environment and people at the same time! [[Abg. Houses: So new taxes!]] – You need to invest a bit more in creative ideas instead of creative accounting, as Austria would have served more! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That would be a really important step towards the future, the only step that our young people would want to thank God, and I also hope that on the election day you will be presented according to the bill for this kind of future oblivion that we have experienced today and also in recent months. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strasser and Mr Deimek.]] We NEOS, we want real solutions for an honest future, concrete concepts, how we relieve and no longer burden people, and how we can guarantee economic and environmental sustainability not only in Sunday's speeches, but also for our children and for our grandchildren. [[Call to the FPÖ: Today is Thursday!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12926	Mr Klubobmann Hofer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e12947	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What we have done in the last legislative period was to try to relieve the burden, in all areas – not only in the financial field, but also in the field of bureaucracy – not only through a relief from the economy and also from workers. That was the great task of this government, and despite these discharge measures, which have been taken, it has succeeded in not making new debts for the first time in 44 years – no new debts! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I turn back what you, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, say: “Even a hydrant would have brought this budget together” because of the good economic performance. [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] There was a good economic performance also in the 44 years before and again, and yet it has not succeeded in making new debts. And if even a hydrant manages not to make new debts, I wonder why NEOS have debt despite donations. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Rejoicing with Members of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, despite this discharge, we have invested, for example, in the rails. In the framework plan, investments in rail development amounting to EUR 13.9 billion – the most important measure that can be implemented when it comes to the protection of nature and the environment as well as climate protection – are planned, investments in rail passenger transport of EUR 700 million annually, investments in freight transport of EUR 100 million annually, more money for research, hydrogen research, autonomous driving. There were also investments by the police – more planning stations, border guard unit Puma – which had long been overdue investments in new vehicles for the German army. We have introduced the family bonus, thus benefiting 700 000 families in Austria of 700 million euros. The pension increase has already been addressed: last 2.6% for small pensions, otherwise 2 percent, and now, 2020, for small pensions 3.6%. I think it's not all right to say that it's irresponsible to adjust pensions. This is the generation that has built our country. This generation has not only contributed, it has also paid diligent taxes, and therefore this is more than justified. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] If a pensioner who receives 1 000 euros of pension receives more with this reform by 700 euros per year, this is not a forget about the future. You have always criticized the new model of minimum security, as you have always been against it. There were extreme cases such as a family from Afghanistan, which received EUR 8 252 net of minimum security. - Everything's all right. But if a pensioner who has already paid into the system – the family mentioned has never paid in – gets more than EUR 1,000 per month by EUR 60 per month instead of EUR 1 000 per month, then is this forget about the future? – That’s not it, but that’s responsibility to the build-up generation! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, this discharge will continue: the discharge of workers and pensioners, as mentioned earlier, of up to 200 and 300 euros per year. There will also be a fee for micro-contractors, and they will only be taxed at a rate of EUR 35 000. This is also a measure that leads to a reduction in bureaucracy. Finally, the limit for low-value economic goods will be increased from 400 to 800 euros. The necessary change also comes with the NoVA, because due to the new measurement method it is simply so that you automatically pay much more for a vehicle that you buy now than before. Or: That the electricity produced by a photovoltaic plant itself is exempted from the electricity tax is also a measure which, in our opinion, is a clear signal towards environmental protection, climate protection. A budget surplus can also be expected for this year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is so clear in this election campaign that clarity should be created. We have heard the SPÖ's proposals on how much tax-free one should receive. It is EUR 1 700 that an employee is expected to receive tax-free in the future according to the SPÖ proposal. There is a second proposal from the SPÖ, by Max Lercher, which says that it should be 1 800 euros tax-free – as a minimum wage in Austria – and the first 2,000 euros will otherwise be tax-free. I understand all of this, but if you demand it, you also need to know how this may affect unemployment. We all know that for a young person who operates an individual company, the jump to the first employee is a particularly difficult one. And the – 1 800 euros minimum wage and up to 2 000 euros tax-free – is a new obstacle that is being built up. How does this affect unemployment? Could it be that some jobs may not arise at all or others will be destroyed? What is the cost of taxpayers, the Minister of Finance, what losses can be expected with a tax-free income of up to EUR 2 000? – We have to ask ourselves these questions. Further: Is the inheritance tax, the death tax, really coalition condition? Will this be a measure on which the SPÖ exists in a coalition? What about working time flexibility? Josef Muchitsch, whom I very much appreciate, said that was a coalition condition. Is she, or isn't she? What about other measures, such as minimum security? Does the new model have to be taken back in any coalition? – So this is a equation with too many unknown people, and – for mathematicians – the equivalent transformation does not succeed in this case. It also threatens disaster, ladies and gentlemen. There is a recession in Germany in connection with industry. If the tensions between Iran and the USA continue to intensify, then this recession will cross over to the entire economy in Germany, and if that happens, we will feel it too, very clearly, although we have better growth rates than Germany. We therefore need a location-friendly policy, and location-friendly means that there should be no new tax fantasies. We need to highlight the location factors – infrastructure, well-trained employees, less taxes, less bureaucracy, more security – in the next legislative period, because only with a good location can it succeed to overcome this difficult time that we will experience in the next few years without damage. I therefore warn against coming with ever new tax fantasies and thus weakening the location of Austria. We stand for a location-friendly policy, for a discharge of citizens, whether they are entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, whether they are employees, employees, pensioners or pensioners. Liberation, less bureaucracy and more freedom, that's our way.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13057	Mrs Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13079	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, a comment to my previous speaker, to Mr Hofer, who said that the introduction or increase of minimum wages is incompatible with job creation: The opposite is the case, Mr Hofer. There was a long debate in Germany before the introduction of minimum wages, and there are numerous studies to show that this is very compatible and that in fact many new jobs have been created. So their fears are likely to go into emptiness. But let us come to the matter, which has been dealt with mainly here so far, to the tax reform law 2020! Let's try to look at this a little more soberly, and let's just hide the battles of the elections a little bit! This tax reform in 2020 has, among other things, set itself the goal of providing specifically for lower incomes – in the lower incomes sector; why I emphasize this will be evident. First of all, an old proposal has been taken up by me, not to make the discharge of lower incomes over tariffs – it is not about that – but about a reduction in social security contributions. A reduction in social security contributions has already come about, but with a refund model. – That should be good too, I agree. However, with the self-employed and the farmers a different path has been taken. There has been a reduction in social security contributions, which have quite different consequences for distribution policy, but which I am still talking about. At the same time, the Budget Committee also added to the reduction in the pension in 2020, i.e. the disproportionate increase beyond the pension adjustment factor for low pensions – the highest level at EUR 1 100, then grinding up to EUR 2 500 on the pension adjustment factor. Now I'm interested in the question: How do these measures affect workers, pensioners and self-employed and farmers? I asked the budget service to present calculations. The budget service has also done this in high quality, as it always does, and it turns out that the group of pensioners is the group that is most relieved, but not from the very bottom to the top, but with grinding arrangements. In other words, the reduction is reduced to 2 500 euros, then slowly goes back to a very low level and ends with an absolute amount of 94 euros. What about employees? – In the case of employees, the highest relief effect for income between 700 and 1,500 euros is 300 euros, and this reduces to 2 200 euros to zero. We see, therefore, that in both groups there are discharges in the lower and middle incomes, but not in the upper area because the discharges are cut down. If we now look at the self-employed and the farmers, then we see that the reduction of health insurance contributions to 0.85 percent leads to the fact that not only the lower and medium incomes are relieved, no, it also relieves high incomes, up to the maximum contribution base, linear. [[Abg. Haubner: Not “up, ” but around!]] The budget service – unfortunately you can't see that because the graphics are too small – shows this very, very clearly. [[Keeping documents in height on which a curve diagram is to be seen]] Now, of course, the goal has been missed. The discharge in the lower incomes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, cannot be mentioned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] – Well, look at this, Mr. Haubner. How's it going? [[Pointing to the individual curves in the diagram:]] Look, these are the liberals, these are the self-employed, these are the farmers; as the discharge increases continuously to a income of 6 500 euros, there is discharge highest. And with the self-employed workers, the discharge ends at EUR 2 200, with the pensioners essentially at EUR 2 500. [[Abg. Haubner:... Mr Rossmann, you have to take note of this! ...for everyone there!]] You will not give me that, these are the results of the budget service. But from you, from the ÖVP, I'm not used to anything else. What was what you presented in your government, in the previous government? – Client policy. And what you're doing here is also client policy. Well, who did you serve? – The hoteliers by reducing the turnover tax, in connection with the real estate tax. From there the donors of the Lord came in short, where you have relieved. You have not come to reduce the corporate tax. [[Call the ÖVP: Come on...!]] Now to the FPÖ: She always pushes the little man, she pretends to be for the little people, but she doesn't. She is pushing the little man to relieve high incomes, which is very, very clearly reflected in this tax reform law 2020. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That is also the reason why, ladies and gentlemen, I will reject large parts of this tax reform law in 2020 and, in a separate vote, will only vote in some parts. Now on the question: Is that all financed? Is there a counter-financing? – No, of course there is not. Although ÖVP and FPÖ claim that all of this was contained in the budget path of the previous government, it is known that money does not have a mesh, so the snow is from yesterday. It also concerns a government that no longer has the confidence of this House. The fact that this is a matter of electoral sugar is clear – a slug who thinks otherwise. However, it would be right in itself to relieve low incomes, but only the low ones. It has then been shown by you, Mr Wöginger – he is not here right now – with his finger on the SPÖ, which will still make some requests concerning cold progression and ecologization of the pendler's fee. Yes, as far as cold progression is concerned, the hypocrisy of the SPÖ, it has rejected a solution in the last legislative period – we know it – and the rapid shoot to ecologize the Pendler Pauschale is just a quick shot; I think it would have needed more attention and more debate to come to a sensible solution. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, you have been looking for colleagues in Wöginger and have said that “whoever sits in the glass house should not throw stones.” – Of course, this is true for you, because you will make an application today for the abolition of cold progression. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Don't talk about responsible action in relation to the budget here! Have you put in a counter-financing proposal? – No, that is, in the request, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, I see nothing, nothing at all. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Yes, pension reform!]] This is structured responsibility. Don't worry about the others if you're not any better at all! Where I give you right, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, this is on the question of ecologizing the tax system. As there are a few mini approaches in the tax reform law 2020 – symbol measures, I would say now. It has already been said about a greater ecologisation of the standard consumption levy, the motor insurance levy and some other things. But what we need in the face of the climate crisis is not symbolic measures, but measures that lead to the achievement of the Paris climate targets. One of the most important measures in this context is the introduction of a CO2 tax. There is agreement on this worldwide, but we have three large political groups sitting here in this House, which do not want to know about it: SPÖ, FPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Kickl: I believed there was a worldwide unity!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, how do you want to achieve the Paris climate objectives if Do you not make the most important measures the subject of your action? I have presented a model that shows that the introduction of CO2 taxes can be non-eligible, but I have also shown in this model that it can be socially compatible. I asked Parliament's budget service to carry out my model, and he confirmed to me that CO2 taxes, i.e. climate protection, and social tolerance, do not exclude each other. Her model, the model of NEOS, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, is not working. In other words, they lower income tax in return. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But Fridays for Future has nevertheless found our model to be better!]] But if you don't pay income tax, you pay only the environmental taxes, you pay only the CO2 tax. Only if you relieve taxpayers of the same per capita amount - - – Well, read the study of the budget service, then you will fail, perhaps just take a look at it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, then read what the experts at Fridays for Future have said!]] Now to Mr Hofer – he is no longer here, but perhaps the others can tell him: Of course, the economic location and climate protection can be agreed. The example of Sweden shows this. Sweden introduced CO2 taxes in 1992 – my model is based on the Swedish model – and what can be seen? – CO2 emissions have declined. In Austria they have risen. Productivity, economic growth have increased in Sweden, even stronger, Mr. Kassinger, even stronger than in Austria. [[Abg. Kassinger:... nuclear power plants have the Sweden! Nuclear power plants!]] So: Economic location and climate protection are compatible, climate protection and social compatibility are compatible. I would like to see the subject of the debates become a new government agreement and there will be a decision in this House in the next few months or next year. Time's pushing! We are the last generation that can still act in relation to climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13248	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13269	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Yes, we have started the way of discharge in 2017, and we are consistently implementing this path with the tax reform. We have already launched this discharge in the Committee on Budgets, and we will decide on it in plenary today, because we are implementing what we have promised: We relieve people and do not burden them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That's one thing we're doing: We follow our path consistently, for the people in Austria. We therefore decide today on a set of measures which will bring reliefs to many Austrians. Whether workers, entrepreneurs, pensioners or farmers, all will benefit from these measures, ladies and gentlemen, and the people who have to get out with lower incomes, we want to support them in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the NEOS and NOW: We appreciate all professional groups, and we do not share whether employees, entrepreneurs, farmers or pensioners, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we decide on these measures today, people will remain in the money market in the future. So you will receive more net of gross, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the objective of our tax relief for the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Members of the ÖVP hold panels with the title ‘Tax relief’. More net of gross.” and the added “Part 1” in the height with a check-in box.]] - You can keep her a little higher. [[Abg. Lightenness: But that was a very shaker applause now!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: This actionism does not fit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We continue the path we have taken, I have emphasized it. In concrete terms, workers and pensioners with low incomes are to be relieved by a so-called social security bonus. On the other hand, we also use two very important measures for our pensioners: firstly, the negative tax increase from 110 to 300 euros, and secondly, we increase pensions by 3.6 percent in particular in the lower area. If NEOS are against the discharge of the Austrians and the older population group, this is their case. Our cause is discharge for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Members of the ÖVP keep the above-mentioned panels up to date.]] Mrs Margit Schratzenstaller of the Wifo, one of the real experts, clearly says that the discharge of low income is necessary and very urgent, ladies and gentlemen! I think we're doing everything right for the Austrians; and there's another thing to do: If we also anchor the debt brake in the Constitution in the next week, we can continue at the second point, i.e. policy without debt for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] So I'll get together. More net of gross, no new debt, a balanced budget, no new taxes and the right reforms, which is the manuscript of the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13370	Mr Loacker referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13395	Mr Haubner said that the ÖVP did not share, it all received a discharge. I'm actually correcting: Health insurance relieves all self-employed, all farmers, but only the less-earned workers, so that full-time workers, who earn 2 000 euros gross and more, do not receive this relief.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13435	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13457	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery, in front of the televisions! It has to be bad about the ÖVP when you have to experience that you are even trying actionism now, but it has not really been successful, ladies and gentlemen, you have to say that already. [[Abg. Haubner: Say the Lord Lighten!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Safe pensions instead of poverty of old age, this has always been a major concern for Austrian social democracy – and not only for Austria. Pensions are about to secure the standard of living of people who have worked hard throughout their lives, to secure the purchasing power in the long term. I believe it is a question of reliability, solidarity and justice that these people also receive fair, decent pensions for their further life, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore I am pleased that today we are also adapting pensions to people who really need them. In concrete terms, pensions will rise by 3.6 percent up to 1 111 euros – that is important – and pensions from 1 112 to 2 500 euros will rise by 1.8 percent. The compensation allowance for married couples will also be increased and further important steps will be taken to make people feel that in the future in the money exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, I say one thing: It is typical that the former Ibiza coalition once again ensures that farmers and self-employed people benefit immediately, but workers and employees must wait a year. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen, which you always carry out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I would also like to answer a question which has now been ventilated more often, especially in the media, namely: Why do we even decide these things now? – It is perfectly clear to me: We are elected to do our work, ladies and gentlemen. Our work is to improve the lives of people in Austria; that is why we sit here, and that is why we decide good laws for people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] These are not sugars, they are things that are absolutely necessary. It is also true, however, that we do not do some things and there seem to be no majority for them. These are bitter drops of wormwood. I believe that the first task of a future majority in this House is to eliminate the imbalance between men and women in the pension system – one of these drops of advertising. Age poverty is female, valued ladies and gentlemen. It can't stay like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But something happens, too, I fear what I don't understand at all. I'm telling you quite frankly, I don't understand: What happened to you about the Ibiza Coalition that you removed the top Irish operating phone? What did you ride there?, I ask you. This is a system that has worked well for hundreds of years, which has provided the taxpayer, who has never cost the Republic a penny, with excellent health care for those affected. You have abolished this in order to harm the human being in the Upper Styria. That was your intention on this question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] Today, we will make a request that these cash registers remain, that people remain well cared for in the Obersteiermark. [[Abg. Wöginger: What about the superiors who are at the regional health insurance fund?]] [[Abg. Deimek: The Voest in Linz does not have an operational health insurance fund! Are they okay?]] I turn to you all, but I address in particular colleagues Amesbauer, Kühberger, Schmidhofer and Zanger, who always pretend to be there for the workers who always pretend to be there for the Obersteiermark: This will be the nail test today, whether you are there for workers and if you are there for the Obersteiermark, ladies and gentlemen, and I urge you to agree with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: And what about the other employees in the Obersteiermark?]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In this question, the Ibiza coalition once again shows its cold-sneaking face, but I can understand that people who spend 600 euros for a haircut don't have much left for people who depend on health insurances, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13626	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13647	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! The objective of the ÖVP FPÖ government was to reduce the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent, and we all know that we had achieved this target by the end of 2020. The SPÖ, on the other hand, defends a high tax rate in its red national election tax paper. I'm allowed to quote: “This reflects our well-developed social state and the high-performance infrastructure”. And: ‘There is no indication that a high tax rate is bad for growth and development.’ We have already heard that Mrs Rendi-Wagner is not a friend of arithmetical examples. For the SPÖ, therefore, high taxes and high debt are a guarantee for a good social state. However, whether the high taxes and debt are handled efficiently and sparingly, this does not play a role for the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is an old-known wisdom: The Republic of Austria has no income problem, but we have an expenditure problem. That is why we do not need new taxes, either inheritance and gift taxes or property taxes. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: With the speech...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I must contradict you, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, if you think that it is not a question of arithmetical examples when it comes to inheritance and gift taxes. In politics too, the basic accounting methods do not harm, and I should like to give an example of this. Mr Krainer, if you were to be careful, you would probably understand some things better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the SPÖ inheritance and gift tax: A donor with a transport value of 10 million euros would require an inheritance tax of 337 500 euros – but only if the inheritance guarantees that workers will continue to be employed for five years. We all know that turnover is not guaranteed, it is not a matter of course, you have to take care of sales, and if sales are falling, it is simply a business necessity that you adjust the number of employees, otherwise you suffer a bankruptcy. However, if this entrepreneur is not able to maintain this number of workers for five years, then the inheritance and gift tax will take proper action at an amount of EUR 2 450 000. In other words, in the case of an operation of 10 million traffic values, it is most likely that 337 500 euros of inheritance tax will be paid, but if you are wrong because a recession is due to us, 2,450 euros. How is a small businessman supposed to pay for this? Is he supposed to get a loan? Should he sell part of the company? [[Call and call between Mr Matznetter and Mr Deimek.]] We all know you can't sell 5 percent of an individual company. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] The challenge of the future will not be the answer to the question, Mr President, how we may be more justly redistributing prosperity, but the challenge of the future will be to preserve and maintain the prosperity we have developed. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I also considered another point from the SPÖ reform paper to be a possible red tax reform. That's what it says: According to SPÖ homepage, ‘the core of a SPÖ tax reform’ is a ‘tax exemption’ for income ‘up to 1,700 euros gross [...] per month [...] from 2020’. The SPÖ does not seem to have fully followed the innovations of recent times, for: Since 1 January 2019 we have had the family bonus. That is to say, the ÖVP FPÖ government has long implemented what SPÖ calls for only for 2020. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since 1.1.2019, a gross monthly salary of EUR 1 750 – not EUR 1 700 but EUR 1 750 – and a child is not paid a wage tax, with two children up to EUR 2 300 monthly gross and with three children up to EUR 3 000 monthly gross. Since 1.1.2019! [[Abg. Matznetter:... without children, Mr. Colleague?]] That means we've made your wishes go ahead. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If the ÖVP FPÖ government had been able to implement all tax plans, there would have been an opportunity for employers to pay up to EUR 3 000 each year in the form of employee profit participation, starting in 2022. [[Abg. Vogl: Well, a social one...!]] This means that workers could have participated in the success of a company without tax and social security. We would therefore have the possibility of a tax-free and social security-free 15. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This would be an honest discharge, without employers and employees constantly playing against each other, as the SPÖ always does, and without new debts. Employers and employees are sitting in the same boat, which the SPÖ has not yet understood. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am also glad that, together with the EIA, we will today decide on the measures we are taking in the Council of Ministers' lecture on 1st November. In May 2019, it was planned for 2020. First of all, the discharge of low income via the social security bonus: There will be a discharge of up to 300 euros per year for employees and up to 200 euros per year for pensioners for incomes up to 2 100 euros per month. The health insurance contribution is reduced to 6.8 percent for self-employed and for farmers and for farmers. Also with the workers – and this is what I would like to mention here – and with the pensioners, that is, the ÖVP and the FPÖ, we would have liked to have a direct discharge by reducing health insurance contributions. [[Abg. Loacker: Had, would you have!]] We would also have preferred this solution, we have said so accordingly in the explanatory remarks, but unfortunately – and this is the answer to the question that has already been asked several times – this was not possible because of the lack of support from the Minister of Social Affairs Zarfl. At this address you can thank yourself. [[Abg. Loacker:... Minister otherwise wurss! Now don't do that!]] Second point, red tape for small entrepreneurs up to 35 000 euros annual turnover by generous operating expenses and an increase in the small business limit to 35 000 euros: This could have saved up to 400 000 tax returns or saved them. We thereby relieve both entrepreneurs and, in particular, financial management. Third point, red tape by increasing the threshold for low-value goods: The limit of 400 euros has remained intact since 1982, we raise it to 800 euros, and 2021 would have been a further increase to 1 000 euros. Unfortunately, we can no longer implement the steps planned for 2021/2022. What steps would that have taken? It would have been the first stage of the collective reform in which we would have reduced the tax rate from 25 to 20 percent. We would have increased the advertising fee to 300 euros a year. In this way we would have introduced red tape again by saving 60 000 people their employees' income. 2021 would also have been the year of re-codification of the Income Tax Act, which would also have resulted in a massive simplification in wage settlement – which is why all entrepreneurs are moaning. In 2022 the second stage of the tax reform would have come, the reduction in the rate of the second and third stages of progression. I have already mentioned the employee profit participation. The corporate tax would have been reduced in two steps and, most importantly, the profit-free amount for individual entrepreneurs would have been substantially increased. Bagatell taxes such as the sparkling wine tax, but also the mass of legal charges we would have abolished, and last but not least, there would have been a uniform basis of assessment for service providers' taxes, which would have led to a further massive simplification in wage accounting. It's a shame that all these discharge steps are on ice for the time being. We would like to implement this tax reform after the election with the ÖVP, even if it is obvious that a coalition with the FPÖ will not be planned there. A black-green or a black-red coalition would not bring reliefs to the population, but burdens. That would certainly be the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On this occasion, however, I should like to thank Klubobmann Gust Wöginger for bringing together the first stage of the tax reform. You place on your signs that this is the first stage; we will create the next stages together as well. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for their support. In this context, I should like to make one more amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[11:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13897	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13921	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister on the Government Bank! We are quite lucky that the amendment tabled by Mr Fuchs is not also a conjunctiv. He said a total of 32 times. [[Interruption at the FPÖ: Well, that was a tax reform in steps, please!]] - Had it, would it, bike chain. So as far as this conjunctiv is concerned and what you wouldn't have done: Perhaps you would have really sold Austria – I think it would have been – but not done any tax reform. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We don't want to forget everything. But now to the positive: Yeah, that's going in the right direction. There are a few positive points that we would also like to mention: the increase in low-valued goods, of course, while at the same time increasing the exemption for small businesses to 35 000 euros. These are steps in the right direction, but then it has itself. By the way, I am particularly pleased that after at least six years, the Turks can now write “more net of gross” – what we have always propagated – on a board at least once. But that's what it's got again. Mr Haubner has spoken very often of the consistent saving and of continuing the road and what I know. The most consistent is: Never in history has there been as high tax revenue as today, and never in history has public expenditure been so high! That's the eclatant. Save in the system – error message! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You're distributing tax gifts! The Minister of Finance will hopefully refer later on to what we will do today or next week without having a counter-financing. The only consequence that prevails here is the inconsistency, the inconsistency of the fact that Mr Grasser, Mr Molterer, Mr Pröll, Mrs Fekter, Mr Spindelegger, Mr Schelling and Mr Löger all spoke of abolishing the cold progression, and always these were only empty promises. That's the point: The Austrian taxpayers cannot rely on them to be relieved that the middle class is also relieved because you have no interest in eliminating the cold progression. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's something that keeps me busy again and again. I wonder, Why do it? You don't? And with regard to counter-financing: Why don't we save together in the system? – Because it's just not casual, because it's not casual to say to anyone: You, the double promotion or anything else is no longer going on. That's inconsistency, that's to be condemned. Create You take off the cold progression, then everyone has more net of gross, and that's the most important! This tax reform has, above all, forgotten the middle class, just as the middle class has always been forgotten. I'm sorry. This tax reform has the right approach, but then you have missed the courage again because some country leader has cried out because of the transparency database that one cannot fill it. We could save so much money in the system, because the abolition of cold progression would take place twice. You lack courage, and that's what it's all about. I think that the most important thing about a tax reform is: Create You finally cut off this cold progression, everything else is inconsistency! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Hofer said: Okay, for the first time in 50 years, we're not making new debts. - Yeah, great! The interest rates have never been so low and the Minister of Finance has never had so many tax revenues – and that is the point: These were the entrepreneurs, the taxpayers and taxpayers, no euro has been saved in the system. We have no new debt, therefore, because tax revenue is so high and because interest rates are so low – and for no other reason! As far as red tape from bureaucracy is concerned, my favorite example: 500 laws have been deleted. – Yes, 500 dead laws, but no single entrepreneur has felt any discharge in the bureaucratic sector! What did you get to the chest? – Something so wrong as the abolition of cold progression.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e13987	The Federal Minister for Finance has been reported to speak. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners and listeners! Today, we are discussing a wide range of topics with agenda items 2 to 10, from tax reform to pension adjustments to care rules. Let me therefore give a brief overview of the effects of today's decisions in the light of the Ministry of Finance, then explain a little of the economic and budgetary context and then address the central concerns of the Ministry of Finance – the Tax Reform Act and the Tax Change Act! At the request of the Committee on Budgets, I have estimated the financial impact of all the requests we have known to us, and we have also sent this result to the budget speakers. There is on the one hand – and let me summarise this briefly – the tax reform with the relief in the areas of wage tax, income tax, social security contributions, with an SME package, with an ecologisation package and a total volume of approximately EUR 2.8 billion. We always think there are four years of budget periods. On the other hand, there is counter-financing, essentially in the tax-change law, with a change in the framework conditions in the field of digital economy – I will go into this later – and fraud control measures with a volume of about EUR 0.8 billion, so that there is a net financing requirement of EUR 2 billion for the next four years. This is an amount which has already been priced, but which has already been reported at European level in the context of the stability programme and which, from today's point of view, does not endanger the balanced budget. However, we also have further requests on the agenda, which are not yet included in this medium-term planning, which we have notified to the EU – pension increases, extraordinary care rules and so on – with a volume of approximately EUR 1.8 billion. If we add 1.3 billion to the July decisions – you remember: We have a volume of around EUR 5 billion over the next four years, of which approximately EUR 3.1 billion is not yet in the stability programme. This is now a representation of numbers with perhaps 5 per cent inaccuracy. But let me say a few words. Explain background: We had thanks to God in the last two years of 2017/2018 a phase of the high economy, which eventually, probably already at the end of 2018, began to weaken. We have a recent study in which the IHS, in the context of trade conflicts and political uncertainties in the world, analysed in two scenarios – with a medium and a rather strong downturn – whose impact on Europe. If I may sum up the result briefly: According to these IHS forecasts for 2019, we still expect a growth of 1.5 percent. On Monday this week I was at the OECD. The OECD estimates us at 1.4 per cent for this year, so we'll find ourselves somewhere in this order. But we will have a further flattening – and now I come back to these scenarios of the IHS that you probably know – and this could also go in the direction of 0.9 percent if I take the second scenario. If we compare this with 2.7 percent in 2018, this is not yet a recession – we also see signs in Germany – but a development that we should accompany very carefully. Why do I say that? . We have registered a no-policy change procedure in the stability programme for medium-term financial planning to be transmitted to the European Commission. We must draw up the next report in October. I really can only appeal to you – that is all I can do, and I know that for many this is already too often and perhaps too dramatic – because what is decided here and today will not go unnoticed at European level and at the level of the credit rating agencies. I do not know who of you saw the report of Standard & Poor’s by, I think, Friday last week. It points to the potential risk of cost-intensive action by changing majority groups in the current parliamentary phase. I can only follow this suggestion, and I really can give it to you once again for your further deliberations and decision-making. However, let me address the two main concerns of the BMF. Much has already been said about this. I'm trying to repeat it very carefully now: We have the tax reform law with essentially three key points: One is tax and, also included, social security relief; the second key is the discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the third is environmental measures. In the discharge of the – not only of this, that has already been discussed today, but with a focus on it – small companies, the employees, the pensioners, farmers are mixed a little in the system: here negative tax, there reduction of contribution rates. This means that – and now I remain with my own performance – the negative tax on employees will be reduced to up to 300 euros, with pensioners up to 200 euros. If you look at the distribution effect, then the pensioners – even this has already been addressed today, and I can point to the corresponding analysis of the budget service – are also heading towards higher amounts. This is an immediate, also noticeable measure for all the population groups. The second area is not only a SME package, but also a financial package, but also a bureaucratic one. I believe that the increase in the small business size limit from EUR 30 000 to EUR 35 000 or – by the way – a measure which is also intended to affect the workers' sector, but above all in the business sector – the increase in the threshold for low-value economic goods from EUR 400 to EUR 800 is significant. The third area, the environmental sector, includes measures aimed primarily at creating a standard consumption tax that is neutral, socially compatible and is still ecologically redesigned – in this three-story, a rather serious challenge. With the abolition of the own electricity tax on photovoltaic plants with a volume of 55 million euros – I leave that to your political evaluation – there are, at least, incentives to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the tax-change law, which contains several packages, the Digital Tax Act is to be mentioned, because it is actually about fair conditions of competition for the Austrian economy, about conditions of competition, especially in the digital field with the Internet giants. With this advertising charge, this 5 percent on digital advertising services, a major measure has been put in place. A second measure concerns digital mediation platforms, thus creating an information obligation and, more simply, a liability clause. The third point is the taxation of small-value shipments up to 22 euros from 2021, which is a volume of an estimated 8 million consignments that reach us annually. This also has a corresponding financial impact. Since we do not always know how this was handled in tax terms, it is also a measure that should make competition more fair for the Austrian economy in this area too. From the point of view of the executive, let me summarize my assessment: From my point of view, these tax and contribution reductions, red tape reduction for SMEs, environmental incentives and the new framework conditions for the Austrian economy in competition with Internet giants mean, anyway, intensive preparatory work, i.e. organisational, technological – we are in September, I say – and of course also personnel. In any event, I can assure you that, as always, in detail – there are still many requests in the debate here – the decision-making process will make every effort to implement the measures adopted here in good time – it will in some cases really be a time-stress – and, secondly, it will be efficient, economical and as far as possible supportive. In any event, I can assure you that we will support the citizens and the economy – both of them the actual recipients, which we should not forget – so that the measures will also come where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14099	Mr Strasser has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14120	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the tax reform law 2020, and I am truly grateful that a discharge of 700 million euros will be launched for small earners from 2020 onwards. We promised to do that, too. I should like to point out that this is only the first point of the tax reform already agreed with the FPÖ in spring and that further measures will be taken by us in the forthcoming government programme. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am very grateful to Gust Wöginger, I can thank Hubert Fuchs, and I can also thank Max Linder that we have managed to provide 50 million euros for agriculture, i.e. for pensioners and for active farmers. This is an important measure because many businesses stand at the back of the wall due to climate change, market distortions and increasing production costs. It is all the more important to maintain family income and competitiveness in Austrian agriculture. Thank you! A warm thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, taxes are also incentives, and I have taken out three measures that we really want to move forward. First of all, I can tell you that the active farmers in Austrian agriculture are among the most recent in Europe. One point that helps to achieve this is that in the future, court transfers will continue to go through the stage without VAT. This is also a sign that it is important to us that our businesses are passed on from generation to generation. Our family businesses are a guarantee that we have proper food available in a corresponding quantity in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another aspect is that a public authority does not have additional costs in future. It is a debureaucratisation measure to ultimately ensure competitiveness and also environmental sustainability in the regions. And the third is ecological incentives. To this end, I should like to point out that it is important to abolish the own electricity tax on photovoltaic systems. This is a long-term demand, which will now be implemented, which will help to achieve the Austrian climate targets faster. Here too, agriculture will make an important contribution when it comes to wind when it comes to water when it comes to photovoltaics when it comes to biomass and biogas. We are not part of the problem, we are part of the solution, we simply want to deliver, and this law points in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: My colleagues and I are on the road all over Austria – it is election campaign, yes, no question. Of course Sebastian Kurz was in charge of this package in spring, and I say this openly to you: This Parliament has taken our chancellors from our country, and we give every day that this chancellor comes back to the top of Austria to lead us back to the top nationally and internationally. [[Abg. Lightness: What? Parliament has taken the chancellor?]] – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14176	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14197	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! With this wealth of requests we are negotiating under one today, I am particularly focusing on a very important area, namely a step forward when it comes to enabling people with disabilities to live self-determined lives. Today my request to upgrade personal assistance will also be put to the vote. Since a time limit was already set for him in the last plenary session, I naturally hope today that this request will be adopted unanimously. Sleeping goes whenever I want to visit the toilet when I have to, making the leisure time as I like – all this is for me and most of it here in the High House of course. Therefore, we should work to ensure that it is a matter of course for people with disabilities to be able to live their own lives in a self-determined way, and that is why personal assistance is needed. Without personal assistance, young people often have to live in well-kept housing facilities or depend on family and friends around the clock. In order to end this dependence and allow affected people to leave this dependency, precisely for this reason, Parliament has decided in 2008 to ratify and acknowledge the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. Only when it comes to implementation – this is again typical Austrian – since hapert’s, because there are nine different federal solutions, and each federal country cooks its own soup. I would also like to give you an example. It is simply incomprehensible and a loss of opportunity towards these people if, for example, a person with disabilities in the care class 4 in Vienna has a claim to personal assistance and the same person only a few kilometers further in another federal state, namely Lower Austria, would not have this personal assistance at his disposal, because it is simply not granted by this federal state. But also the situation in Vienna has worsened dramatically, as the funded hourly rates provided for this personal assistance have been since 2008 – since 2008, for 11 years! – were no longer increased and people can thus buy themselves less and less assistance hours for the money provided to them. And then you can choose to stick to the example of whether to take a personal assistance to meet with friends or to take a shower or to go to the toilet. Everything will no longer go out because the value of this sum, which is provided for personal assistance, is simply not the one he was eleven years ago. It is our duty, as a Member of this House, to continue to ensure this personal assistance for people with disabilities and to develop opportunities. There are serious differences between Vorarlberg and Burgenland, and I therefore ask for uniform solutions throughout the country in this request – and I ask you to give your consent. No flicking work, no flickering tapestry all over Austria: I want federal solutions. It needs a legal right to personal assistance also in leisure time and a sufficient number of hours of care as well as the corresponding financing. Personal assistance at the workplace is guaranteed, we have implemented this in Austria, and it also benefits all people with disabilities. We only need to transfer this scheme to one and extend it to the leisure sector in order to be able to eliminate the dominant rights of opportunity accordingly. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Sozialminister Zarfl, to accept this decision, which we may take today, and to go to work as soon as possible, so that these important and necessary projects do not threaten to be flouted if the new Federal Government is praised. Please take the appropriate steps and preparations before fishing for a new Federal Government! I also have two other points that can contribute to improvements for people with disabilities and will also be if we decide together today. These are both amendments to the Tax Reform Act, which we have prepared together with the President of the Austrian Disability Council Herbert Pichler. The first application concerns tax exemptions for exceptional charges. What are extraordinary loads? – Among other things, costs for reconstruction on the passenger car so that, as a mobility disabled person, you can reach the workplace without public transport – because this is often not possible – with your own car. There have been allowances for these extraordinary loads. Only these amounts have been available since 1988 – and this is almost as long as I am old! – was no longer valorised, which de facto means a loss of value of 65 percent. In order to correct this loss of value and to adapt precisely those allowances for exceptional loads for people with disabilities and disabilities, I propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is a dry matter, but it helps every person with disabilities in our country a big step further. A second request, which we have also prepared with the President of the Austrian Disability Council and which is also an amendment to the Tax Reform Act – that is, the decision could enter into force today – is concerned with the removal of the refunding of the NoVA. In 2011, the removal of the refunding of the NoVA, unfortunately again charged by people with disabilities, was carried out. This has led to massive additional financial burdens from this group. Norbert Hofer said at that time that this was a next government attack on the disabled, and that is precisely why I am now looking specifically for the Liberal Group to agree to this request in order to bring about this improvement. I would also like to read this request now: Amendment Mr Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA, colleagues on Amendment 984/A The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The draft law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: In Article 12 (‘amendment of the standard excise duty law’), the following point 1a is added: _Other Organiser 1a. The following Z 5 is inserted after § 3 Z 4: ‘5. Operations relating to motor vehicles used by people with disabilities for personal movement, provided that the person with disabilities has his or her own driver's right or makes it credible that the vehicle is mainly used for his or her personal transport. The disability is caused by the registration of the inadequacies of the use of public transport or the blindness in the disability passport according to §§ 40 ff Federal Disability Act, BGBl. No. 283/1990, as amended, or A certificate in accordance with § 29b of the Road Traffic Regulations 1960, BGBl. No. 159/1960, as amended.’ The removal of the refunding of the NOVA for people with disabilities concerns mainly people in the rural area, and it concerns particularly low-earners. For a mobility disabled person, a private car is not a luxury goods, but simply an existential necessity. That's why I'm asking you: Go along with these requests! It is not appropriate to treat the NOVA as a luxury tax for this group. Let's take back the removal of the foundation together! Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[12:16]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14456	The two amendments have been properly tabled, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14481	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps a word in advance to Mr Schellhorn, who had previously said that the countries were sparse when introducing data into the transparency database, perhaps a small note – before you go out here as an ever-better and big saying victim –: In Salzburg, where NEOS are in government responsibility, several applications have been submitted by our Marlene Svazek to maintain this transparency database, and this will not be met until today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Ah, look!]] Now on today's subject, the first part of our tax reform: Today, one of the best daily newspapers in Austria, the “Krone”, is looking at what is most important to people in that country, then one sees that this is a safe job and an income that is enough to come out. What has this government done with free participation in the last two years? – That’s exactly what – that is, we have provided tax relief, we have ensured that no counter-financing is carried out through new taxes. Saving in the system was the motto, and so should be saved in a total of 8 billion euros. So far, we have been able to implement about a third of the discharge, on the one hand – it has already been mentioned – with the family bonus plus and on the other hand with the discharge of the low-earners with EUR 1.8 billion. Today, some EUR 1 billion of relief comes back: for the low-earners and pensioners who receive a negative tax in the form of the social security bonus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, an important point for micro and small entrepreneurs, the turnover limit for the application of the so-called small business exemption will be increased from EUR 30 000 to EUR 35 000, which is the maximum limit available to the EU. This will relieve micro-enterprises and give them the opportunity to package, which in turn will bring tax relief and also simplify the management of small enterprises. In addition, a doubling of the threshold for the immediate depreciation of low-value goods comes to 800 euros, so that purchase costs can be depreciated immediately up to this amount. When we look at the next group of farmers: Unfortunately, under the SPÖ-ÖVP government, farmers have been heavily burdened by the increase in unit values. Although the ÖVP has been able to delay the whole thing a little before the last election – it seems that the EDV has not worked – but now the single value determination has gone over the stage, and with it, of course, the social security contributions have increased. Then ÖVP cried out as a alleged peasant party: You have to fix that now! - Who fixed it? – We liberals in our workshop with Social Minister Hartinger-Klein have repaired it, and the social security contributions of farmers are also reduced by 0.85 percent. Another point that concerns farmers is that there is a tax relief for farmers – especially in the Carinthian region, in the Upper Carinthian region, in the Gail and Lesachtal, but also in the Upper Mölltal – for which we have made ourselves strong together with colleagues Obernosterer. We have been able to achieve this, as the ÖVP and Gabriel ObernostererWord have held – this is not exactly a very pronounced virtue of the ÖVP, but in that case it has worked, and I would also like to thank Gabriel for having achieved a discharge of agricultural communities and increased the tax exemption for the Kest from EUR 2 000 to EUR 4000. [[Rejoicing by Mr Schimanek]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happens next week? – We will certainly hear one or another election speech today. The following will happen: Either this reform path will be further implemented – and a free government participation is, in my view, a prerequisite for it – or the ÖVP turns to the left. So this should be considered when you go to the election, because turn left means new burdens on the population – property tax, inheritance tax, CO2 tax and, and, and, foreigners' right to vote, what can also be done to us – or you might consider in the election cell, if you vote, the FPÖ’s single setting feature, which now as the only party here does not want new taxes and no new taxes. – In this sense I say thank you, and I also thank you for the first part of the tax reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14543	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14565	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Today's headline is probably known to you: Austria is falling below the index for social progress. That reflects exactly what I have said over and over again: In the last 18 months, Austria has simply become colder in the whole social area under the Ibiza coalition. [[Abg. Amesbauer: such a pot!]] You have taken away something from people, and this is today the opportunity and opportunity to return to people what you have taken away from them in the course of this debate in the course of the vote on various requests. I would like to draw this from the example of pension adjustment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] In 2019 it was Chancellor Kurz who, as the only chancellor after Schüssel, did not invite pension representatives to sit with him at a table and talk about a pension adjustment. The result is known: The daily, weekly purchase costs pensioners much more than the amount that you have decided to change your pension here and granted to people. That is why it is all the more important and good – and I thank the Pensionist Association of Austria, President Peter Kostelka and his Secretary General Andi Wohlmuth – that 2019 was invited to a pension summit with pensioners, club members from ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ as well as other experts such as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Finance Ministers. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] An agreement has been reached which now gives pensioners, with the 2020 pension adjustment, what you have taken in 2019, an increase in purchasing power. Thank you very much, Mr President – he is among us today – and thank you very much also to the Secretary-General. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today we also have the opportunity to implement further social justice. We will make a joint request – thank you, Werner Neubauer! – in order to eliminate the waiting period for the aliquotation of pensions. This is important because it is not to be seen that people who have a positive pension notice and take up the pension have to wait up to 23 months until they get the first pension adjustment. – That’s exactly how social policy goes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will also invite you to vote today when it comes to the cancellation of special pension payments, so that if those people who have spent decades in the night, in the shift and worked hard work, go to the well-deserved pension, exactly for this hard-working group of people, there will be no more deductions. That's humanity! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. New builder.]] We will also invite you that we can anchor the statutory pension column in the Constitution because it is the safest pillar because it is the safest protection against old age poverty and because it is also the safest variant to secure the standard of living. We will invite you to join and support our application in the case of occupational health telephones – that they remain independent – so that the 30 000 insured will continue to receive additional benefits and their regional care. [[Abg. Amesbauer: All panic!]] – You can vote for it today, Mr Cot. We will also invite you to support our request that 45 working years are enough when it comes to not receiving any discounts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Those who have contributed for 45 years in Austria – regardless of whether workers, employees, self-employed workers or farmers, we do so for all groups, and we invite you to support this request – who has 45 years of contributions, should not receive any discounts in Austria. This is a milestone, which is a long-standing demand on the part of social democracy, which you can support here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: A very good proposal!]] We shall therefore also make joint motions for resolutions: Review of the special pension privileges – that is, not the small pensions of the Postler, the Railwayr, but the top pensions of more than EUR 10 400 a month – we will also ask the Federal Minister and the Government to present a report. In the same way, we demand 13th and 14th. Introduce monthly salary by law for those people who do not now have a collective contract and for those who do not have full 13 and 14. No monthly compensation. That is exactly what social policy is, and this is only possible because we have not had a short government for 115 days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That's exactly why this has been possible as many other things. Today is a good day, a good day for people in Austria who have earned more social security, more recognition and more justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14680	Mr Hammer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14701	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, we have – and this has already been said by some previous speakers of my group – in the last federal government and now always the goal of tax relief for people, especially the working people. We have started with the family bonus, we have continued to reduce the unemployment insurance contribution, and today, with the first stage of the tax reform presented by the Black and Blue Government, we are taking a further step towards this relief. We reduce the social security contributions – a discharge of around 700 million euros for all affected groups, whether it be employees, pensioners, self-employed and also farmers and forestry farmers, and this is particularly important to us. By refunding the social security contributions or by reducing them, we achieve a discharge of up to 300 euros per year and for pensioners of 200 euros per year. It's obvious and it's evident that we're currently burdening low-earners by these measures – a really good package! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy, if You have listened carefully to the statements made by the Minister of Finance today, then you know: This is a decision that was also taken into account in the Republic's budget paths, and this distinguishes this decision of tax reform massively from your requests of casino parliamentarianism, which assumes inconceivable proportions. [[Abg. Matznetter: Casino is Mr Sidlo!]] Sometimes at SPÖ you already have the impression that you are doubting whether you are going back to Parliament, because you want to do everything that is important to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, it is also included in this package – and this is particularly important to us – that measures in the field of environmental and climate protection are also put in place in tax terms. The Austrian People's Party is always important to operate climate change with a sense of mind and not to make any hysterical decisions. We are making an ecologisation of the standard consumption levy, it is taken into account accordingly in the case of electrically operated and low-carbon vehicles, and we also want - and that is essential - the expansion of photovoltaic systems, renewable energy, and for this purpose the own-power tax, the electricity tax, should be reduced accordingly. Allow me also to say a sentence on the increase in pensions, because it is important to me personally. Yes, we have decided – and the ÖVP was very massively behind it – to significantly increase only small and medium-sized pensions, and with the 3.6% pension adjustment for small pensions, we really have a strong sign for our pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen Lightenfried and Muchitsch, you want to bring the Styrian election fight with your hysteria in respect of the occupational health phone a little bit to Parliament. . I believe that it is not particularly correct, the reform of social security was a right and good measure, and today we are creating the conditions for the assets of the occupational health telephone with the amendment of the Stiftung entrance tax law and then for the benefit of the insured person as benefits. So your hysteria is absolutely wrong in place. We handle this very, very sensiblely. According to what I heard from the works councils of the operating health telephone in Styria, they do not agree with your procedure at all. We'll take care of it. Its hysteria is spreading, but it is also going to be done. You'll get a deed, too, in the Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14754	Mrs Doppelbauer. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14775	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you just listened to my previous speaker, you think that's the big throw now, right? That was great! [[Abg. Haubner: Very good! People feel that!]] We looked at this very well. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the big throw. It's a piece of work. Good things are included in this piece of work, so can be said. We will also vote in favour of a number of points, but the very, very big issues – for example, the relief by the abolition of the cold progression, which has been repeatedly addressed – will not, of course, be dealt with. If we are talking about ecologizing the tax system, we have to say that these are really peanuts. Instead, we are now again distributing punctual constituencies. I would also like to say one thing: I think Mr Haubner said that there are no new taxes. – Well, there is one already, namely the digital tax that is now being introduced. Maybe just a little bit about this: What's this digital tax about? - That's an online advertising charge. The former Minister of Finance has tried to solve this at European level. That's nothing. Then you went home and said: Well, let's just do something in Austria! – You can say that, and it’s good, because it’s all about paying taxes fairly, that’s important to us. But: Then you come with this package, which massively intervenes in the rights of Internet users. Data is collected over seven years, data from domestic IP addresses and geolocation data. We really see that in a very critical way. I could talk a lot about it now, but I'm just saying what the Section for Advertising and Market Communications of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce has to say, and I quote Obmannstelrepresent Konrad Maric: “The old government has stood up as a major fighter against the tax avoidance policy of online giants and against bagatell taxes. [...] This bill is incompetent dung!" [[Abg. Haubner: It's always nice when NEOS quote the Chamber of Commerce!]] I have to admit, of course, that other parts of this law are very good, that we will also go with it. We will, of course, not agree to this digital tax law at second reading. That's show policy. However, as a budget speaker, I would also like to come to something else, namely the election sugars. This has massive consequences. Just a few figures on this, because it was a little too short, the Federal Minister has said: Increase in the amount of pension: 110 million euros per year; Increase the reimbursement of social security contributions and the amount of the transfer: EUR 440 million per year; EC internal market, social security, social security, social security, social security, social security Ladies and gentlemen, because it's always said we don't want to raise the low pensions: Of course, we are in favour of paying for inflation, quite clearly, but we are spending an additional EUR 370 million per year for this increase in pensions beyond the inflation rate. If we count this together, then we come to 10 billion euros of extra expenditure by 2027, and of course this is just crazy! 2017 has not been so long, many of you can remember: At that time, it was about abolishing the care rules. Last week was a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, and last week we still did not know exactly what this really cost. We're approaching, but they don't know that much. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is not here right now, but he says that is the way of responsibility. I mean, seriously. 10 billion euros, which are spent in addition – not for education, not for research and development or perhaps for environmental measures; no, quite the contrary, I have just read about what the money is spent on – that is simply not fair to the next generations! These laws, which cost EUR 10 billion, are being passed today. In view of this very, very toxic election sugar, which we are distributing today, it is all the more important that, at the last meeting of the Budget Committee, we have launched a constitutional debt brake on the Swiss model. We must stop making new debts every year. This gives the next generation a huge backpack, which grows from year to year, and that is simply not fair. I want not only our children to have a functioning school system and a health care system, but perhaps also to receive a pension, as well as the children of our children. That is why we need these constitutional debt brakes. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14826	Next, Mr Brückl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e14848	Madam President. High house! Appreciate listeners! A year and a half ago, we liberals joined our government in order to bring about a change in values in Austria, and this change in values has also succeeded in many areas – in the area of security with our Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl, in the area of immigration, in the area of social policy and also in the field of financial and budgetary policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have progressed in reducing the tax rate. We have put an end to past debt policy. We have driven the debt reduction process forward and have made sure that the citizens in our country have more freedom. It was and still is our freedom-free aim to ensure the economic location of Austria and to relieve labour, and with this tax package, with these tax measures that we will now decide, we do so too. We give more responsibility to the individual. We ensure more individual freedom and less state prejudice. Among other things, the High House, we also vote on amendments to the Tobacco Tax Act and the Tobacco monopoly Act. This brings me back to the issues of freedom, responsibility and trust, especially with regard to smoking protection. In July 2019, the absolute ban on smoking in the gastronomy was decided against the votes of us liberals. This has not only threatened the hostess, the gastronomy and the trafiliants in their existence, but has also put thousands of jobs at risk and is buying them to be destroyed, especially those privileged disabled people. For tobacco professionals, this is an economic, but also a personal disaster. High House, in this context, it is therefore necessary to immediately establish a realistic, material-political arrangement for the need to ensure their existence in the medium and long term. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense and in the sense of the freedom of people in our country, I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask the House to support us on this important issue. It is not just a question of securing thousands of jobs, it is also a question of ensuring that our economic culture is not carried to the grave and that host mortality does not continue. In this sense, I am seeking your support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Bravo, Hermann! Bravo!]] [[12:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15050	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15075	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! In-house culture back or forth, I'm now talking about women in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is always too little talk about women in this country in the context of tax reform and social security. We all know: What do many women need and want? – They want to live an independent life; they want to live a financially well-equipped life, so that they get along well – not in luxury, but well over the rounds – and above all they want to live self-determinedly and not to be a partner for a lifetime. Today, women have not been told much about these reforms, which are now being decided, but about smoking and the host has just been very much talked about. I'll tell you one thing: Pamela Rendi-Wagner and Social-Democraty say that what the social partners have done in the past for almost all professional sectors is to enforce 1 500 euros, and so the next step is overdue. Why is this step to impose EUR 1 700 net overdue? – This is necessary so that women can spend a month well themselves, their children, their families, because many women live alone. It is hundreds of thousands whose ex-partners are not always willing to make their contribution. We have not yet managed to put together a good maintenance law. [[Abg. Haubner: Where is Mrs Rendi-Wagner?]] Therefore, it takes 1 700 euros tax-free, kindergarten all year round free, the school all day and free, even during the holiday care. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] – That would be something that would help many women and children! They were just invited by colleagues Muchitsch to agree that everyone who has reached 45 years of work should be able to enjoy his pension without any discounts. Yes, if 45 years are enough, it's 40 years for women with children. For women who have children, child care must be 40 years enough under 60 months of age, so that they do not receive any discounts at the pension. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] – Please vote You're with me today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also not to be seen that one year is to wait for the first pension adjustment. This is especially for women, for very many women – we know that there is an average of 42 percent difference in the pension – a scratch of old age poverty. This could be reduced a little by simply letting go of this waiting period, as we are proposed today. We're really inviting everyone to do that. On the subject of pensions, on the issue of avoiding poverty, I should like to make a motion for a resolution and to explain it a little. I believe that it is very important for women in this country that we, as Parliament, cannot tolerate the fact that women receive almost half less pension than men and therefore are affected to a high degree of poverty in old age. Therefore, there was a proposal from Pamela Rendi-Wagner on this area, namely that we increase the billing of child rearing times by almost 50 percent. [[Abg. Haubner: Where is she?]] That is, the basis of the calculation, the basis of contributions, must be a higher one, child training times must be charged higher, so that we grant a woman in the final effect not 110 euros per month more pension, but 160 euros. That would be 50 euros a month more that women would have at the pension. With this motion for a resolution which I now wish to make, I invite all of you to join in: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it's just right and cheap that we're trying to fight women's poverty together. Please follow this request! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15214	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15245	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen, listeners! This tax reform law includes a whole series of very, very good news. Firstly, it includes good news for people with low incomes, for workers, for pensioners, for self-employed, for farmers. For all these groups, there are reliefs from health insurance contributions, up to an order of 300 euros per year. Zum Secondly, it contains good news for many entrepreneurs, especially those with low turnovers. For them, the package is facilitated. We are saving up to 50,000 more tax returns per year. The package has already liberated about 350 000 entrepreneurs; now it is 400 000. We save up to 1 million unnecessarily working hours from tax consultants, single and small entrepreneurs and, of course, from financial management. That's also a positive message. The motto of this tax reform law is: less taxes, less bureaucracy and above all more recognition for hard-working people with low incomes or low turnovers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another good news from this law is addressed to the environment. The abolition of the own electricity tax on eco electricity is a very important signal. You know, we have the goal of winning 100 percent of our electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030. That is another contribution in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the People's Party, I can give you a promise for the post-election time. [[Abg. Schimanek: Don't!]] [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] – Is there any reason from the past to doubt my statements? [[Abg. Schimanek: Not to you! Not to you, but...!]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... but on behalf of the People's Party?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: We are continuing our path, which is: for people more net of gross, for all taxpayers, for wage-tax rates, for employees' income tax-free, for tax-free more overtime, for all taxpayers, for wage-taxes, for a profit-making tax, for one thing must be clear: Performance must pay more than today in this country. We'll take care of that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness:... now the promise!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of my colleagues in my capacity as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce: Before the 2017 election, with your attack-like request for the approximation of workers and employees, you undisputedly expressed an invitation to the policy of intrusion into the social partners' spheres of competence so far, and made arrangements unilaterally, without involving the social partners. [[Abg. Muchitsch: And the Lord has short...!]] You are now announcing an application, i.e. 13th and 14th. Monthly, once again one-sided, without having to discuss this in advance. – You must not wonder if politics will continue this way there or there without your invitation. [[Abg. Schimanek: Is this a threat?]] You are making a contribution to the erodement of the social partners. That's not good, but you've started to follow this path, you also have to bear the responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15376	Mr Loacker has spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15397	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Let's say, A coalition announcement for a reprint of black-red was not the case before. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Haubner.]] If we come back to the matter again and look at this increase in the pension, for which it is interesting to praise the pensioners' representatives, then we note that we are being accused of why we do not share the gift distribution here. For a small, former opposition party it would have been quite easy to say to the increase of 3.6 percent: What 3.6 percent? We want 5.6 or 6.6 percent! – It would have been easier than to say: Wait, what's happening here is not perfect, it's not generation-friendly and it's not in the balance between contributors and service providers. This full increase of 3.6 percent is now receiving 1.1 million pensioners. But they are not all poor and needy, because this would be a disaster if our pension system were so bad that more than half of the pensioners would live in poverty. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Rather, it is that 200 000 people have to live on a really small pension; and they have a compensation allowance. These are those who really need it, and we really need to look at those. They also tolerate an out-of-tour increase. However, it concerns, for example, 300 000 pensioners from an Austrian pension abroad. They have worked in Austria for perhaps five or ten years and usually in Germany: 30 years in Germany, ten years in Austria. Their Austrian suspension is now upgraded by 3.6 percent, regardless of whether the person concerned in Germany receives another 1,500 or 2,000 euros. It's not perfect, it's not fair. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr. Universitätsprofessor, who enjoys his official pension, wrote as Professor's opinion and therefore receives a small GSVG-pension: Its GSVG-pension is also upgraded by 3.6 percent. He doesn't need that at all. They thus celebrate the greatest increase in pensions of all time for the benefit providers. The contributors, the taxpayers, however, have not had the biggest salary increase over the past 25 years, they have not had the highest increase in the total amount of CV over the past 25 years, but they must finance what pensioners get with their contributions and taxes. That's the balance between the two groups. It is about the strong generation agreement already mentioned today. This can only work if the interests are balanced if the interests are balanced. The only advocates for the workers, the only advocates for the contributors and for the boys are the NEOS in this House. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition, you will celebrate for the discharge of small earners in health insurance. Exciting is once the following: That's typical ÖVP clientele, because it gets the woman who's essentially stayed at home and goes to work for a few hours because the man takes the money home and she takes care of the children, the relief from health insurance. Above all, all farmers get it regardless of income, the self-employed get it all regardless of income, but the self-employed workers who work full time and earn more than 2,000 euros gross have nothing to do with this discharge. However, what you create in the self-employed sector is a huge part-time fall. For example, if a worker earns EUR 1 200 in part-time 50 percent of the labour force, it will not pay a wage tax and no unemployment insurance contribution, and will receive health insurance in the future. Such a person will never work 80 or 100 percent, because of course people think about what they deserve more when they work more. Everyone will conclude that this does not pay off and they prefer to stay in part-time – then we wonder why the women have lower pensions. This is because we have kept them in part-time with tax promotion. – That’s what you reach. What would you have done? – A discharge for everyone. From the abolition of the cold progression all have something: those who go to work, those who are in retirement, the self-employed, the farmers, the self-employed, all. However, the abolition of the cold progression takes you the opportunity to distribute gifts before the choice, because that happens automatically. The discharge is then done automatically and you cannot be knocked on your shoulder in the constituency. That's what you're talking about. It's about yourself and it's not about the citizens, the taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Therefore, I would like to make the following request for the abolition of cold progression: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15626	The application which has just been submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. Mr Muchitsch spoke on an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I assume you know the relevant provisions, and I trust that you will comply with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15658	Madam President. Mr. Secretary-General! Dear Karlheinz Kopf! I'm correcting: The Head of Parliament here claimed that a law was passed here in the House without the involvement of the social partners in September 2017 on the approximation of workers and employees during the termination periods. I'm correcting: In September 2017, we decided by a majority in this House that the social partners of three years of transition by the end of 2020 should be invited to bring about an approximation between workers and employees during the notice periods. This has already happened in many sectors. I would like to thank all employers in the social partners who have already implemented this in their collective agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15685	Mr Linder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15707	Thank you, Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, one word: Agriculture would be happy if it had a corresponding income, so that it could be reduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Unfortunately, we do not have it, that is the current situation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform brings reliefs and reliefs for all shifts. But above all – and this has already been mentioned several times today – it also brings reliefs without introducing new burdens and, above all, without redistributing them. You don't take someone away so you can give someone else something, but you really get out of the system. It does not bring new debts; and this too is very, very important, for it has been made enough for years. As the good economy is constantly being met: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the past – as former State Secretary Hubert Fuchs has already said – there have been many phases of the high economy, but the money has been used up for everything else instead of actually being returned to the citizen. That is why, I believe, this tax reform is a first good step. As mentioned above, it brings discharges to all groups of persons: Workers, pensioners, self-employed, but also farmers. For the self-employed, there are discharges in social security. For workers and pensioners, it is up to 300 euros a year. In the area of self-employed people, we have already heard this, there are many simplifications for small businesses and micro-enterprises as well as an improvement in the package regulation. The limit of VAT is increased from EUR 30 000 to EUR 35 000, that for low-value goods from EUR 400 to EUR 800. To this end, I am allowed to report from practice: With my little inn I've been really angry about that sometimes. If you buy ten tablecloths, you can't write them down as low-value assets, but you have to activate them. That is why, as I believe, the right steps are to create real reliefs in such areas. Agriculture – and I am very pleased here – will receive around 50 million euros through the reimbursement of health insurance contributions. However, this, my dear colleagues, can only be the first step towards giving farmers discharge, because – decided in 2012 to implement 2018 for the first time – the increase in social security contributions resulting from the new single value determination was the one that the farmers have taken most seriously. If you talk to farmers today, you know that's the reason why they're no longer able to pay the social security contributions. Although many things were agreed between ÖVP and SPÖ at the time, I still find today the greatest misunderstanding that all nine agricultural chamber presidents signed and approved this paper. I think it is really necessary to tell the farmers again and again that this is just a disaster. The new government will have to deal with the issue very seriously and seek solutions in order to deliver the farmers in this regard. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lindinger.]] I am very pleased, regardless of the tax reform, that yesterday the EU Subcommittee succeeded in preventing the Mercosur Agreement in order to ensure clarity for farmers, but also for Austrian consumers, that they continue to receive good products from Austria and do not have to fear truly inferior products from South America, such as meat. The first part of the tax reform – and I am delighted that so much so – has come to pass despite the election campaign. In this respect, Hubert Fuchs and August, in particular, thank you for finding a solution, regardless of the whole election campaign – the topic of election struggle – so that the tax reform can be implemented. That's what this coalition has awarded. We have sought solutions with reason, without dispute, without personal animosities and have worked for Austria. I'm curious about how the next coalition will look. We have just experienced again how well ÖVP and SPÖ can work together. And I'm curious how this might get the farmers to enjoy if the Greens suddenly make agricultural policy. That's why: We have worked well, and I am glad that it can continue in the form.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15789	Mr Wimmer has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15810	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It could be that today this is really a special day for the workers. I have not yet given up hope, because there is a chance to perhaps implement and implement some corrections of some of the horrors of the era in short, which were mainly implemented by old Chancellors in short. [[Abg. Sieber: Again chancellor!]] – Not yet, wait a minute! He's not another chancellor yet. I'm almost out of my mind when the old chancellor turns up at every opportunity and says: Workers must not be fools. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Sieber.]] There are, of course, some here in here who copy this. Ladies and gentlemen. It was in short that the 12 hours were overturned by the workers and allowed them the possibility of self-determined work. It was old chancellors short, who rolled down social security, by the way, put in black and threw out the reds. And it was in short, who stole 300,000 people's birthday, ladies and gentlemen, who passed over it and destroyed it without replacement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] You put yourselves here and say that the workers must not be the fools. I have not yet thought of the 20 000 action: You have left thousands of people who have no chance of getting back into a work process in the rain, colleagues – and that will be revenge. You'll remember that. You will be caught up in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] However, I have actually come here today to light up pensions and discounts, but also the reductions for farmers, the deductions for self-employed people and, of course, those for workers. [[Abg. Haubner: The old SPÖ is back!]] That's your problem, too. If people today can't work up to 65, then they have the problem that if they go to the corridor board at 62, they will take these reductions of 15.3 percent a lifetime. With this provision, this story has to be done. They must be stopped, ladies and gentlemen. If you've been working for 45 years, you're not allowed to pay off. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I look very special when you send out your soldiers, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Abg. Fürlinger: We have at least some!]] Agenda Austria two days ago: Pension system unfinancialable, 20 billion euros budget grant. – That was mentioned on the edge. In the last three years, the grants have been reduced. And if you are talking about grants, we are of course also talking about where the grants are going! Let us look at how the self-financing rates of the workers, the employees, look! Workers and employees finance the pension to 85 percent themselves, with the workers at all 97 percent. A little stupider it looks already with the self-employed, since the state – but for this we stand – has to contribute 50 percent. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fürlinger and Mr Sieber.]] Now Mr. Strasser isn't here right now: For farmers, the state has to contribute 80 percent. That is why we know what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we are also in favour of this grant system, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] I am tabling two amendments, because it will not work otherwise. The first amendment concerns mainly workers, employees and all self-employed workers: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15931	Deputies! That's the wrong request, it's not there for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15952	No, no, no, - Maybe I'll read him for that if you don't have it yet.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15976	Deputies! Something has been changed in handwritten form, namely: a) The following Z 1b is inserted after Z 1: "1b. [...]’ You're not supposed to have this supplement. However, I assume that this request is meant. Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e15998	‘[...] In § 236, according to para. 4a of the following paragraph. 4b inserted: ‘(4b) If the insured person has acquired at least 540 months of contributions from compulsory insurance on the basis of employment, a reduction in the benefit under this Federal Act and the APG is not permitted; § 261 para. 4 of this Federal Act as well as the Section 5 para. 2 and 6 para. Do not apply 1 APG. As a contribution month due to employment, up to 60 insurance months shall also be considered for periods of child rearing (§ 8 para. 1 Z 2 lit. g, 227a or 228a of this Federal Act or Section 3 para. 3 Z 4, 116a or 116b GSVG or Section 4a para. 1 Z 4, 107a or 107b BSVG) if they do not cover periods of compulsory insurance on the basis of employment.’; (b) In § 727 Z 1 as amended by Z 4, the term “292 para. 4’ of the expression ‘236 para. 4b,’ inserted. That was the first amendment. I now come to the second amendment, to the one tabled by Mrs Wimmer, my fellow Members, to 687 of the supplements which concern the self-employed and the farmers – we are in solidarity and we also want to have them so that they do not have any supplements. The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: Art. 22 (amendment of the Commercial Social Insurance Act) is amended as follows: The number--
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16043	Mr deputies, the request has been distributed. You just need to explain it in the basics, you don't have to read it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16058	The main guidelines explain: It is also about 540 months of contribution. If these are reached, then there are no more discounts. For those people who have acquired 60 insurance months for childhood education, these are included. Madam President, if They agree that this request is also properly and properly filed. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[13:11]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16208	One application was read out and thus properly filed, the other was distributed and explained in the main guidelines and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Himmelbauer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16232	It was a difficult birth now, as you have seen. I may add something to what has been said earlier: Mr Wimmer! Under Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, we have been able to share a lot with the government in this country, here in the National Council: facilitation, modernisation of the law on working time, not only for entrepreneurs, but above all for workers, so that they can divide their time well and independently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] We have put in place important measures in social security, a structural reform that we have been discussing for decades, which no one has ever taken away from us, which we have finally been able to implement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] We have also achieved real relief for the people of Austria, so that they remain more net of gross. We have achieved this in the last one and a half years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what I really want to talk about today is the digital tax package. They are all on the road now, but also all year round, just as I am talking to entrepreneurs in my constituency Weinviertel, and if you talk to entrepreneurs, these are essential points that would make life easier for them: This is, of course, the shortage of skilled workers, in view of the need to see that apprentices can be found and trained so that the experts of tomorrow can also be available and contribute. On the other hand, it is of course also the bureaucracy; it needs a discharge in this area so that more space to breathe remains. And last but not least, they are always talking about fair competition, tax justice. This is certainly an issue that concerns us at the Austrian level and at the international level. Fair taxation of digital business models has been a topic for years and, as we see, it will be discussed, but unfortunately there is no progress in any way. Especially in Austria, we have always been involved in these debates, especially through our former Minister of Finance Hartwig Löger. We are committed to taxing profits where they actually occur, for example with a digital facility, but, as I said, at European level, but also at OECD level, there is still no light visible at the end of the tunnel. That is why we have decided to implement a national solution to show that national measures are also being adopted, which, of course, are only a first step and not the whole way, but, of course, a means until we reach a common solution. This is, among other things, an advertising charge on online advertising, but this is also the case with a turnover tax from the first cent on packages from third countries, and this is also true that platforms such as Airbnb, which provide mediation services, are taken on board to produce tax justice. That's what we stand for, too. I can say that here too. We stand by the fact that at the end of the month, people will be left more, more net of gross. We stand for tax justice, and we stand for fair competition.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16290	I call Mr Matznetter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e16312	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is an extensive package on which, as the discussion of the last two hours has shown, it can be quite different. I will start with the contribution of Mr Fuchs: Mr DDr. Fuchs, who is a tax advisor in the civil profession, tells us that a small business, a donorry, could have a value of 10 million euros in determining the inheritance tax, and he knows very well that when assessing according to the Vienna procedure, this company, which, of course, has never had a particularly large number of assets, except perhaps a few machines, would have to throw profits in several million heights in order to reach 10 million euros. [[Abg. Rossmann: Exactly, Wiener Projekt!]] Is that your imagination? Do you know how SMEs really do? – Take a look at the median income of the self-employed: [[New call for tender of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We are talking about 12 000, 14 000 euros a year, not millions, Mr Fuchs! That's your idea of the little man, and that's why you also refuse that they have to pay a contribution. Therefore, together with the Turks, you will decide on a scheme in which – an example – the highest relief in the area of the highest contribution base is made for the self-employed. Instead of looking at small businesses and the self-employed and making the same relief as for workers and employees, pensioners and officials – no! – make a special arrangement, together with the ÖVP, by breaking a principle – we have not had that in the country so far! – that health insurance is financed from the contributions. They apply tax financing to farmers and self-employed people. You do not need to shake your head, my colleague, just that. [[towards ÖVP]] They lower the contributions a year earlier and do not do it for all small and medium-sized incomes the same as it should be. The distribution effect of this describes our own budget service, Parliament's budget service. Who in the reply of the 18th-century budget service? In September, it was noted that farmers and self-employed persons have reached the maximum amount of redundancies for income from the maximum basis of contribution. Furthermore, our budget service analyses that in absolute amounts the discharge in the households of the self-employed and farmers in the fifth Quintile – that is, for the top 20 percent – is twice as high as for those in the first Quintile. That means nothing with small and lower incomes, only first stage – special scheme! In order to improve all this, I would like to make an extensive supplementary or amendment to the motion for a resolution 984/A by Mr Wöginger, Mr Fuchs, Mr Kopf, Mr Brückl, Mr President. Since this is very extensive, Madam President, and has already been distributed in the hall, I would allow myself to explain it only in his basics: First of all, on the changes in the Income Tax Act: That is where we want to adapt to the tax freedom of the food vouchers, which have been since Ferdinand Lacina, when I remember correctly, amounts in the so-called sausage smelting height. That's where we want to get to 8 euros. In § 19 of the Rehageld and the Reintegration Funds, we want a regulation, as we have it otherwise, from the time of the inflow to the claim period. We want, in § 124b, SV-Bonus, the employees as well as the self-employed and the farmers to receive their discharge in 2020, and therefore we want the conversion between paragraphs 344 and 345, with which the corresponding relief would already come in 2020 for 2019. We want to pay off the cold progression. We want to produce the EUR 1,700 tax-free. There we heard again cynicism when it was said that this last government had long since produced it through the family bonus. In the list, it was forgotten what with those without children – nothing with tax-free! That is what we are doing with this measure. We want to make a regulation in the area of the Pendleren Absatzgebätz, which escapes from the portability and, as a decommissioning amount, re-arranges this penalty, by direct disbursing it as a withdrawal. In tax law, we want a 90 percent increase in the amount of allowances for disability. This is the adjustment which has not been made since 1988. The remuneration for termination of the service relationship – for example, social plans – is currently only taxed at half the tax rate of up to 22 000 euros. We want this restriction to be increased to 40 000 euros in favour of this group of persons. We have already talked about the provision of doctors in the country and in many regions and also in smaller cities. There is the problem that colleagues who want to settle there as a doctor often cannot rent ordination. Why? – Because the landlord lacks the doctor’s tax liability to repay the pre-taxes from the investments. This is a nonsense, of course, because it prevents the doctor from staying there. He doesn't get the lease. This is what we want through this Section 28 para. 38 UStG, with an option right of the landlord on VAT duty. It is important – and we have already explained this in the Committee – that: We want hygiene products for women to be subject to the preferential tax rate. Women cannot choose this, and it is not possible to see why the highest rate of VAT is collected. I do not understand the honourable Members at all that they do not vote in favour of this. This is the invitation to follow our request for this change in the VAT law and thus to do something in favour of women. We want to amend the Insurance Tax Act on the method of payment in such a way that the increased premiums do not start in this form in quarterly or monthly payment. We already have this with the new vehicles as of 1.7.2020, and we want it to be paid after the WLTP cycle that this underage supplement is entirely out of place. And very important in the sense of climate policy: In the field of the Electricity Tax Act, we want to see public rail transport and public transport, that is, where the railway is going and where the tram is going, the exemption for the rail stream will be applied. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree, then you could make something out of your reform, otherwise I fear that a part of which is not as positive as you would like it to be. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17069	The request just presented is currently under negotiation. I call Mr Lugar. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17094	Madam President. High house! Today, the ÖVP has said a lot about what I want to do a little bit. Today, someone has come out and said that if Austria or the voters want to have chancellors back briefly, then they have to choose briefly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - That's not true. You also know that's not true. And why is that wrong? – chancellors Shortly will become chancellors again, that is not at all to avoid, this is not at all different. That is, anyone who has a little bit of an idea of elections can calculate that there is no other way. There is no other constellation. There is no possible alternative at all to the fact that chancellors will not be again chancellors in short. [[Abg. Easy: He's not a chancellor now!]] That's why that's not true: If you want chancellors short, you have to choose him. - No, I don't. On the other hand, it always says: If you want to continue the path, you have to choose a short one. – Just the opposite is the case, the opposite is the case! If anyone in this Republic chooses the ÖVP and chancellors briefly, he opens up the possibility that this path will no longer continue, because then Chancellor Kurz has the opportunity to enter another coalition. And if we look at today's debate here and if we make the last two years of revision happen, we see that this successful course, which has been made possible by the FPÖ, has been constantly and repeatedly criticized by the SPÖ and NEOS. [[Abg. Easy: But right!]] That is, there is no cut for this successful course with the SPÖ or with NEOS, which there is no. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, if anyone chooses the ÖVP to continue this successful course, then in truth he opens up the possibility that soon turn left and that he does not make a coalition with those with whom he has a volume of cut. Try to find out together with the SPÖ! Try this once! This is as difficult as pressing water out of a stone. There are no similarities. That is, if you want to make a coalition with the SPÖ all serious, then the step back, standstill, and all that we have done in the last two years will be taken back. It's even worse with the NEOS and the Greens. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Even worse!]] That is, if you look closely at it, there is only one way of continuing this path with the FPÖ. We don't offer ourselves. [[Abg. Lightness: Ah, oh! What else is that? I mean, much more is not going at all!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you were not angry with me, I would have the opportunity to cool with a party other than the ÖVP, I would be the first to do so! I know ÖVP very well, very well, and I also know what the ÖVP is like. But there is no alternative at all. If we want to implement the path of freedom, we need the ÖVP, because it is simply the only party in this House with which we have a quantity of cuts that our free movement programme actually wants to implement. And that's exactly the point. That is, if this becomes a collaboration again, then it will be a purpose, but no love marriage, of which you can assume once. But I'll tell you one thing: As a liberal, we would address these purposes with you in the interests of Austria. Because we are only about Austria, we are the ÖVP sausage, from which you can assume. [[Ah Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] We are talking about Austria, and unfortunately there is only one party with which we can implement something in this liberal direction; and we would like to do so. I can only say one thing to anyone who wants to choose the ÖVP seriously: Chancellor Short remains chancellor, becomes chancellor, is not preventable. One voice more or less makes no difference, thousands more or less make no difference. [[Abg. Wooger: That's it!]] If someone wants to continue the successful path, unlike the Greens and the others who really want exactly the opposite, he has to choose FPÖ, because then the ÖVP does not pass us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the end of the day, I have another fear: If the ÖVP is given the opportunity to make a coalition with the Greens or with anyone else, they will do so – to the detriment of Austria, but for the benefit of their own functionalists and their own posts, which they can then divide in this beautiful country again, because that is exactly what the black ÖVP wants. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: On the matter!]] That's why I can only say one thing: If someone wants a successful way for Austria, he can only choose FPÖ, everything else is a ascension command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17240	Next item is Mrs Hammerschmid's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17284	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I would now like to exchange the election stage again with a stage on which we lead the parliamentary discourse and come back to the tax reform. Today it is also about discussing the scope of the tax reform. I would like to take the next few minutes to bring all of you back to the issue of climate change and climate crisis, because this issue is far too short. It was also tabled by my previous speaker, Christoph Matznetter, a motion for an amendment, which comments on climate change and proposes measures. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a biologist and I know what it means when glaciers melt when poles melt when methane is thawed from permafrost floors and released from the sea floor. [[Abg. Smoking: What does that mean? What does that mean?]] I know ecosystems can tip, and they're tilting irrevocably. This development cannot be reversed. That is to say, we really need to take climate issues seriously. It should be our summer, as we had it this year, and the hurricanes like the last, Dorian, also warn us and call on us to act courageously and immediately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tomorrow is again one of the great climate demonstrations. Our young people are massively calling for attention to this issue. We should listen to them and we should finally take action. [[Abg. New builder: In July and August we had no demonstrations!]] On this tax reform, the amendment tabled by our side was the change in the electricity tax. We all know that transport is a major source of CO2 emissions – in particular the transport operated by fossil fuels. And we all know that when goods are transported on the rail, this causes 21 times less CO2 per tonne than transport by trucks. That is why it is so important for us Social Democrats to focus on public transport in the field of climate crisis and to expand it in a massive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] More routes are needed, more railway stations are needed, and modern connections, modern technologies, the most modern and fast trains are needed, and there is an offer for commuters so that they can change to the rail so that they can use public transport at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Smoking: Transport billions!]] That is exactly why I do not understand why the ÖVP – I am Lower Austrian Members – is now leaving the Schweinbarther Cross and wants to replace the trains with 75 diesel buses. [[Call the FPÖ: This is unheard of!]] I can't do that, dear friends. Let's finally take this issue seriously! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ÖBB imagines how it can be done, because the ÖBB use 100 percent renewable energy for their power-driven trains, the railway stations, the offices, the workshops and their cranes, and a third of which they generate in their own hydroelectric power plants and solar plants. That's exactly the way – and we need a lot more of it. [[Abg. Neubauer: And you have rejected the biogas power plants!]] It really can't be that we don't tax air fuel and clean energy that ÖBB uses in the public sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, we demand that electricity from renewable energy sources, as far as it is used for public transport or public transport, be exempted from the electricity tax. That's an hour's commandment. The lost extra costs are at ticket rates, i.e. at the donor, at the donor's place; they can afford it better. The ÖBB can thus also make more investment. The taxes they save are investments in further train connections, further train connections. So: The expansion of public transport is our main focus on climate protection! But I can't take a note at this point either: This tax reform is once again a far-reaching opportunity to introduce a grant-absorbing capacity for the Austrian education system and Austrian schools. We know, and this is a good thing, that for science, research, even for the topic of animal welfare and -home et cetera, there is this disbursability of donations. It is not at all clear that there is no education at all. I'm not going to get tired of fighting for getting this donations-absorbability as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17402	Mr Ottenschlager has spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17424	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I should like to refer to the remarks made by my esteemed predecessor, Mrs Hammerschmid, because we are also talking about the so-called pre-tax law at this item on the agenda. This means that we will release funding for the next ten years of more than EUR 10 billion, amounting to more than EUR 1 billion a year, which will be invested precisely to ensure that public transport is secured. We're worried about that now. The Republic of Austria is a pioneer. For many years, we have been investing as much as no other country in Europe in the rail system with means of taxation – apart from Switzerland. This must be noted at the moment when one speaks of the fact that this is certainly the best way to ecologize transport. That is what we are doing, and we want to continue to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An addition to this for the spectators: We are not only investing in rail transport, we are also investing in development, because you have criticized it. [[towards SPÖ]] Over 2 billion euros a year will be invested in infrastructure development projects. We are also in favour, so you should not pretend that nothing is going to happen here. We have also taken a pioneering role in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have now followed the debate and I would like to say that, except for Mr Lugar, everyone was actually of the opinion, yes, we are talking about discharge here. So we can't lie so wrong. It's being relieved, and that's the right way. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger here speaks of the 2018 tax rate and presents it in such a way that nothing has happened. – I don’t think that’s fair, I have to say quite honestly. As you know, at the end of 2017, at the beginning of 2018, the then Federal Government began to reform in the direction of discharge. So taking 2018 for such a statistics is really not fair. Then take 2019 as the basis, since then the family bonus is in force, then you can also see the way in the right direction, namely towards tax relief! [[Phone call at the NEOS]] The first step was for the families; the second step is now for those involved in smaller incomes; and we hope that we will also be commissioned by the Austrians to implement the second and third stages of this tax reform, which we are planning to implement, so that all others will also be relieved and we will go the way towards 40 percent tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17485	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17506	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we seem to experience the wonderful increase of bread among pensioners, because everything I have heard today corresponds to the wonderland for pensioners. I would like to start with the tax reform. This has been said by the Turks: The pensioners will receive 200 euros as part of the tax reform. I have started to expect a little, because I like to do something like this, and I wonder what these 200 euros a year mean for pensioners. [[Abg. New builder: half a semi-trailer!]] – 54 cents a day, half a semester – you said it – or six days of tax reform for 1 kilo of bread, so they have a bite to eat. [[towards Abg. Neubauer]] That's the wonderful tax reform that came out. Next, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in pensions so gloriously presented. – I say that for me there are only three people who are here today in the house who are really responsible for this pension increase. These are for me – because he has taken the initiative – the President of the Pensionist Association Peter Kostelka, then the Federal Chairman of the Senior Ring Werner Neubauer and the President of the Senior Confederation Ingrid Korosec. The three were the ones who put massive pressure on us to see that this increase in pensions can be achieved at all, ladies and gentlemen, they deserve the applause here, because they have been working for the pensioners so that we can decide today in this House! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you really want to do something for the pensioners, if you really want to help them, then, I say, there is already something, namely the withdrawal of the waiting time for the pension adjustment. What is the waiting time for the pension adjustment now, ladies and gentlemen? – I bring an example: If you're 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website That is to say, you have 23 months of waiting until you can even take up the first pension increase, ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this is something that has been changed, so I shall put forward the following amendments. First of all, 688 of the supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another amendment to 687 of the supplements: Amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Neubauer, Mr President The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: Art. 22 (amendment of the Commercial Social Insurance Act) is amended as follows: (a) The following Z 4a is inserted after Z 4: 4a. § 50 para. 1 last sentence not applicable. Art. 23 (amendment of the Farm Social Insurance Act) is amended as follows: (a) Z 1 is given the designation ‘1a’ and the following Z 1 is preceded by the following: 1. § 46 para. 1 last sentence not applicable. Ladies and gentlemen! These two amendments ensure that, when pensioners retire, they receive increases from the beginning and not only after 23 months. But, ladies and gentlemen, I still have a concern today. I have often submitted applications to the Night Heavy Labour Act and to the special pension scheme concerning the Night Heavy Labour Act, namely that those who spend decades doing night hard work and for whom farms have to pay an extra 3.4 percent of the wage amount do not have 13.8 percent reductions if they have to retire at the age of 57. For me, this is an injustice that cannot be, because if you calculate it, you realize that they are financing their pensions free of charge. I therefore propose today the following amendment to 688 of the supplements: Amendment tabled by Mr Keck, Mr Belakovich, Mr President The Council of Nations would like to decide at second reading: The application for a law referred to at the outset is amended as follows: In Art. 1 is inserted as follows: 1c. According to § 261 para. The following paragraph 4 shall be added: 4 a inserted: ‘(4a) A reduction in benefits shall not be applied to the calculation of the special pension allowance provided for in Article 10 of the Act on night work as applicable. This also applies to the calculation of the special pension according to § 6 APG.” If this request is accepted, ladies and gentlemen, then today we have really created justice for the pensioners, then we have really created justice for the people who work at night. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:41]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17717	All three applications submitted have been properly submitted, are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mr Neubauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17741	Madam President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! I think that if you have spent about 15 years of your life for the elderly in this country and then look through today's requests for decision-making, you can say with a calm conscience: Today is a really good day for the elderly in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is about the 2020 pension adjustment, and I should like to thank Mr Kostelka and Mrs Korosec, who had a significant role in the Council of Seniors – and my previous speaker mentioned it – for this. In weeks of discussions with the political parties, it has finally succeeded in presenting a package that has enabled the political parties in this House – ÖVP, SPÖ and the Freedom Party – to meet a package that can be seen in the public, and which is also socially just, as I believe, which takes account of the elderly for their achievements and, of course, also makes it possible to age in dignity. Whenever it is said – and again today, mainly by NEOS – that today it is mainly about electoral sugar, then I don't quite understand it, because what is it really about? – We are increasing or adapting the compensation directive today, ladies and gentlemen. How high is the median pension in Austria, which has been so praised here today, that makes all the people who are in retirement rich? Do you know how high the median board is in Austria? – It is 1 015 euros, ladies and gentlemen, and if anyone assumes that these people are rich, I do not know on which planets these people live who claim it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can therefore no longer hear that pensions are too high, the retirement age is too low and the state grant is unfinancing that permanent horror scenarios are painted on the wall for the future. At the pension summit, we decided to increase by 3.6 percent from EUR 1 111 and this will be reduced to 1.8 percent. I believe that this is socially fair and socially acceptable, including for the budget. It is also a real signal towards poverty reduction in Austria. After all, more than 205,000 pensioners will benefit from this increase. This will also greatly increase the purchasing power of these people. In addition to this adjustment to pensions, I have been heavily committed to including the abolition of the two-year waiting period for the first increase in pensions in the programme. We have agreed briefly, and in the end there has been a unanimous majority in the Council of Seniors for this claim, which other parties have already expressed in the past. I submitted the first request to this House in 2008; one could say: What lasts for a long time will finally be good. This injustice is finally abolished by today's decision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Doppelbauer – when I go to [[Abg. Double farmer: Yes?]] Your opinion in the Committee on Budgets can now be replicated – you have said there, literally, that the pensioners get just too much with 3.6 percent. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, she didn't say that! That's something unreasonable about what you're doing!]] – There is a record, I can show you. And you know what else you said, and you really did? – You said that we would better have used the extra cost of pensions spent there for climate protection. Now I can really tell you one thing – and you confirm it again today: I consider this statement to be deeply despicable, this permanent interplay of young and old I no longer stand out. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] To counter people with climate protection is at all the last thing that can happen here in this House, I tell you. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is about people!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Hello! It's about people!]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] You should come here and apologize to all pensioners in Austria for this statement and this derailment, I would like to give you this advice. [[Abg. Double farmer: And who apologises with the boys?]] I really can't hear you again. Your permanent accusations! The seniors have shown solidarity with the people in Austria with two savings packages, 2008/2009 and 2012/2013, and have renounced an increase. There was a zero round back then. The federal grant, ladies and gentlemen, fell by 800 million euros from 2015 to 2019, so we achieved an increase of 800 million euros. To cover, I can tell you that 90 percent of pensions are covered by the insured themselves. The grant liability, currently 2.7 per cent, will rise to 3.1 per cent by 2050, which is 0.4 per cent in over 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! And then you're thinking about whether this payment procedure can still exist at all?- Oh, my God! You should be ashamed of that, I'll tell you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The total pension costs are shown in the European Commission's 2018 Rating Report. They will rise from currently 13.8 percent of GDP to 14.3 percent – 0.5 percent – by 2070, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS. This is actually nothing in relation and you as a bank specialist know it very well. You claim the untruth here against better knowledge, I now put it to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You are the biggest fan, Mr Loacker, of the so-called Swedish model. Do you know that in Sweden, pensioners have been on the street against this Swedish model for months, demonstrating? You know that? They demonstrate against their own Swedish model, the Red-Hut demonstrations! Every week they demonstrate against the injustices of this system. There is a minimum pension of 850 euros, Mr Loacker, and if you don't have the money to pay in a pension fund at the time of your life, because you hardly get out with what you deserve, then you can't get in the pension either. 70 percent of Swedish pensioners could not live anymore, if they did not have a side acquisition, Mr Loacker – a side purchase! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There you can talk about what you want, those are the facts. That's it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing: For example, the Swedish model does not provide a maximum contribution basis for the service provider. Explain this to Mr Hazelsteiner! He'll have joy once he hears it from you that you are committed to it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Do you know what's still in the Swedish model? – There the orphanage and widow's pension were abolished. We liberals say quite clearly: Hands away from widow's and orphans' pensions! Hands away from the Swedish model! I congratulate all those who take part in today's decisions and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17901	Mr Neubauer, I have one more request here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e17917	Thank you. For formal reasons, I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18019	Mr deputies, what about the second request? - It's brought in by someone else. [[Abg. New builder: (on the way to his seat) He is brought in by someone else!]] Good. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: He is no longer talking!]] Mrs Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18069	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech relates to the so-called tax treatment of food in establishments, in the Volksmund better known as food vouchers. There are currently two options: Redeem food vouchers per day per employee either in corporate canteens or in a nearby inn with which there is a contract that these vouchers are accepted there. At present, the tax-free amount per day is EUR 4.40. We want to increase this amount to 8 euros. My colleague Matznetter has already tabled the request. The second option is to get a voucher that you don't have to redeem at once, for all those staff members who have outside service, who can provide themselves elsewhere, even in any supermarket. This amount is EUR 1.10 per day and we would like to increase it to EUR 2 – tax-free for the employee. Ladies and gentlemen! These amounts, EUR 4,40 and EUR 1,10, have not been increased since 2005. It is therefore more than the time that one now comes to meet the employees and makes this increase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is also in the sense of the service providers and – not to be forgotten – of the regional economy. This amount goes one to the establishments which are directly located nearby; whether this is host houses or the canteen. And if you don't want to think about the employees, you think at least like the Chamber of Commerce, which has been demanding that this amount be increased for years, because this is very beneficial to the regional economy. In this sense: Today is a good day, outside the sun shines – support Please make that request!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18115	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18136	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! We are debating today with this tax relief a discharge of the population. You will not be surprised that, as a family speaker of the ÖVP, I remember here again one of the government's most important discharges: This was the family bonus, which brought over 1.5 billion to 950 000 families with 1.6 million children. A truly important discharge! Although colleague Meinl-Reisinger is not in the hall now: Of course, this discharge has no effect on the tax rate, on the tax rate. If it is then priced or, better said, discounted, the tax and tax rate will also be reduced accordingly by this family bonus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are therefore talking about 700 million euros of discharge in the course of this tax reform, and the Minister has already said it correctly: These 700 million euros have been paid in the budget path we have agreed to together, and this discharge is not to be described as an election sugar under any circumstances, but as a very important discharge for the Austrian population. 50 million of these are intended for the peasant families. We have seen just how important this is in the last few days and weeks in which we have been led to see how the drought of drought has affected the farmers last year. It was a first step that the government, with our Minister Elli Köstinger, has decided on an emergency aid package, a drought package that has helped farmers for the first time, but now this tax reform is a second important step towards the relief of rural families and is also necessary. These are three measures which I would like to mention in particular: This is, on the one hand, the reduction of the amount of KV contribution by 0.85 percentage points to 6.8 percent – an important relief for farmers. Secondly, this is also a discharge of rural pensioners, and administrative simplification is also envisaged, i.e. administrative relief. As the time is very short, I would just like to make one more amendment, namely the amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, MMag. DDr. Herbert Fuchs, colleagues. Madam President, I think that this request is available, I only need to explain it in the basic guidelines. These are technical changes...
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18177	Mr President, the request has not been distributed. You have to read it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18192	Okay. That's a lot. All right, I'll read it. So:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18267	Deputies! I can interrupt you now. We didn't have the report that the application was distributed, but we just heard it was distributed. He was very well presented and is particularly well-introduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18288	Madam President. I thank you very much for this relief and would like to conclude by saying: With this tax reform, of course, people remain more net of gross. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18415	The application, which is currently largely read, excellently submitted and distributed, is under negotiation. We are now coming to the next speaker, and this is Mr Stöger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18440	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome the guests from the Bishops' Foundation, who are here with us today. I have already met them before, and some have told me how difficult it is to find a job. It's difficult to get an apprenticeship. That is why I am saying this because honourable Members here today meant that we have a shortage of skilled workers, a shortage of skilled workers. So only the young people were invited to complete a teaching and we had skilled workers in the future. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Black-blue or black-turkis has taken place to fight the social state in its roots. [[Abg. Scherak: Black-Turkish can't!]] [[Abg. Worm: Col. Stäger!]] And today is a good day, because there are elements through which one wants to strengthen the social state again, because it is about people having freedom, that is, when there are strong collective security systems. I am pleased that FPÖ is also making a few contributions today to ensuring that people in the pension are better protected. [[Abg. Worm: A few!]] The Chamber for Workers and Employees for Upper Austria has filed a petition to anchor the pensions in the Constitution and also to support the pension system financed. I think that is very important. Secondly, We protect the social state when it comes to the tax relief of social plans negotiated in the enterprises today; the basis of assessment is extended from EUR 20 000 to EUR 40 000. I think that is a very special, important point. Thirdly, In the context of this debate, we also have the pre-load law relating to the transport contracts to decide with the transport associations. I thank you for having a great willingness to support it. Why do I say that? . We increase the freedom of people if they succeed in making public transport available. And if we make public transport available, we also make a very special contribution to climate protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I looked at how to prevent freedom: You can lock people in or you can take people's transport. – So this is an important contribution to freedom. Finally, I would like to say the following, and this is important to me: I welcome the works councils Gritz and Bacun, who are affected by the fact that the old government wants to tear down the occupational health phone, as it wants to break down the local health phone. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Stop it now!]] That is a system, Mr Leichtfried, which has been working well for 100 years, has not demanded any money from the State, and I therefore ask Members to vote with Amesbauer, Kühberger, Schmidhofer and Zanger, so that this amendment, which I am submitting, is accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to table the amendment tabled by Mr Stöger, Mr Muchich, Mr President, on the report and request by the Committee on Budgets 688 of the Supplements. The National Council, at second reading, wants to decide that the operational health telephone will be maintained. They brought a lot to people, and the state didn't have to make any contributions. I think the request is distributed, I don't need to read it. I'm looking for your consent! [[Conjugation with SPÖ and bravoruf des Abg. Light peace.]] [[14:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18721	Thank you, honourable Member. The amendment was presented to all Members in writing in the broad guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18749	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Believers at home! Mr Stöger, former Minister of Social Affairs, I can make a few points even today. First start: We have, together with the ÖVP, spent the last one and a half years extremely much on social matters and for people, and this should also be clarified. The tax package we decide on today also offers a lot of social improvements for the whole of Austria and for many Austrians. And this deserves an applause in between – also from the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] But what we will decide today – we will agree – and what, I believe, is due exclusively to us, the Freedom Party – you have not achieved this in government over the last few years and decades, which are very crucial things: We will abolish the charges for night workers and heavy workers. You haven't done this for years and decades, dear Social Democracy! [[Abg. Vogl: That was our request!]] We shall vote today because we have already called for it: 45 years are enough! 45 years of work must be sufficient for the regular pension without deductions. You, too, dear Social Democracy, have not done this in decades. [[Abg. Vogl:... abolished!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] You didn't do that in decades! I am glad that you are now working in the evening, but the workers and employees in Austria know very well who they owe to these developments: the Freeman and no one else! [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, you!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today, we will also vote on a long-standing demand from us liberals – I believe Mr Belakovich, colleague of Neubauer many years ago –: the legal protection of the 13th and 14ths. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This too is a story that you have missed out on for years and decades. They could not guarantee this to Austrians – we will guarantee it today! This is important because the 13th and the 14th respectively. Monthly wage is regulated in the collective contract, and collective contracts, as you yourself know, are also changed. You can change them, they are not a legal guarantee. There are also, by the way, some sectors that do not have a collective agreement and no 13 and 14. In the case of a company which is a member of a group, it is a member of a group which is a member of the European Parliament. In principle, once again: The 13th and 14ths. In Austria salary really have tradition, are quite, very important. Many people need 13th and 14th. However, in order to cover their living costs, they also need to cover liabilities or debts in part, and they also need – and that was the idea behind the invention at that time – to be able to finance a deserved holiday at least once or twice a year. This is what we want to guarantee Austrian workers today, and it is only the FPÖ that owes thanks to the liberal – and nobody else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A special theme on which I have spoken several times in recent years and which I have to address already the ÖVP, but also the Social Democracy and the Greens, who are no longer in Parliament, but are likely to come back: At the time, we tried to abolish the special pensions, the so-called luxury pensions, and unfortunately we failed in the plenary session – a joint rejection of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens. I still remember very well the colleague Schwentner of the Greens, who then tried – this is a matter for which one would need a two-thirds majority – to explain this to their voters. They have then been presented to God thanks to the 2017 bill, also the Greens. I'm already excited how You want to explain this to voters now when it comes to the abolition of luxury pensions. According to Professor Marin, there are around 40,000 pensioners in Austria who receive a luxury pension, i.e. who have a monthly pension of 10 000 euros and more. Some luxury pensioners are also sitting here in the house, leading workers' chamber, economic chamber, housing cooperatives, city of Vienna, country of Tyrol – officials; there could be some listed. This was and still is an inheritance of the old, black ÖVP and the old red SPÖ. I am therefore glad to see that the SPÖ is going with us today and is at least ready to end these luxury pensions, because – Mr Neubauer has explained – an average pension of just over 1 000 euros per month and 1.4 million minimum pensioners with less than 1 000 euros per month cannot be expected to earn the Austrians 40 000 luxury pensioners who earn 10 000 euros and more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here again: Who owes this to Austria? – Of course, the FPÖ, the Freeman, quite clearly, and therefore also very, very many Austrians, workers on the 29th century, will become very, very, very many Austrians. ==References====External links== Finally, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18915	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e18939	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! We are negotiating a number of topics here with a lot of questions and tasks. I would like to comment on three points. The first point: We have tabled an amendment to the insurance tax. In the future – and as a consumer protection speaker I believe that is also very, very important – the underage supplement will fall on car insurance. This is something we really welcome, because people with small incomes are profiting from it, those who are not able to pay the entire insurance sum at once, and then are punished for paying their car insurance monthly. Our proposal is that this should not only apply to new cars, but should also apply to all those who already have a car. We know that it is not so easy for people with low income to sign up at any time for a new car, that is, many of them would have to wait a very long time to benefit from this improvement. That is why we believe that it is right and time to abolish this underage award. The second point is – and I am glad that we are now bringing together an agreement among almost all the parties – that at that time, even in the free play of the forces, the care rules were abolished. This was a measure that was very, very important and right, because it needs freedom of choice: freedom of choice, whether you want to be maintained and cared for at home or whether you want to go to a stationary facility. We have achieved this freedom of choice, and we have seen that many have taken the opportunity to go in stationary care and care. With regard to the costs originally estimated, from the outset we knew that the coverage would not be sufficient at EUR 100 million, the countries and communities are hanging in the air. There is now a motion for a resolution which will ensure that at least EUR 300 million will be made available to the countries and communities this year and next year. We are proud of this and look forward to it. Now, if the proposal comes here that caring relatives should get a bonus when they care for and care for at home, then of course it is difficult to say: No, we're against people getting money. – The only question is whether this is the right incentive for what we want to do, namely to create freedom of choice, where one wants to be maintained and cared for, and above all to create freedom of choice for the caring family, because in the campaign this is always a topic. The people who care for and care for at home say: What we need is support, that is to say in kind. – They need assistance in consulting services, they need support where care is concerned. They need less money, they need people who listen to them who support them in the important issues of everyday life. It's a huge challenge. Most of them are women who take on this task, and these women, I believe, need more than EUR 1,500. You need real support to master this difficult task, and also the opportunity to say: I'll take care of myself, or: We can afford to have someone else take care of it. Another point that also concerns us, of course, is the topic of pensions. We have one of the best pension systems in Austria at all, and I therefore have the opportunity to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] What does that mean? . We want not the debt brake to be in the constitutional rank, we want our exemplary pension system to be in the constitutional rank, because there it belongs, that assures us. One aspect of Mr Worm's statement: If you claim that we have never done anything against the deposits, then that is not true, because these deposits have only been introduced by Black and Blue. Thank you. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[14:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19124	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19152	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Among these nine points which we are debating together here is also the point of care rules, care financing. My previous speaker was the first one who has now also mentioned the subject here, and I would like to use my speech to make a few comments on this matter. In 2017 – also in the course of the preparation for the National Council election – we abolished this care rule together, only NEOS did not agree to it at the time. As a result, the Constitutional Regulation has been imposed that 100 million euros will be paid as compensation to municipalities, social assistance organisations and countries, and it has been very quickly shown that this sum will not be enough. As a result, in the autumn of last year we decided to increase the amount of compensation to 340 million euros, with the task of raising in the countries, in the municipalities, the amount of the actual loss of revenue by abolishing the pension regime in the municipalities and in the countries. These surveys are now complete and, if I am now properly informed, the sum is slightly less than EUR 300 million. This new decision is now being taken. Today, with a special law, with a grant law, we decide that for the next two years, we will refund 300 million euros per year to the countries and municipalities. However, this law also shows that it is urgently necessary to have a comprehensive concept in the care issue. That is why, as a People's Party, we are also proposing to reschedul funding and to introduce a care insurance as the fifth pillar in the field of social security. This is our proposal – also for the next government and for the next legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This law, which we decide today, namely these foundations to the communities, also shows that stationary care is of course a very costly part of care; the more important it is – and this is also part of our proposals for the organization of care, our care concept – that we try to strengthen and support the care at home, the care at home in our own four walls as well. We therefore also propose this care bonus, this care home bonus for the caregivers, because we all know very well that the expenditure per care place, which the public hand must cover at the end of the day, amounts to between 10 000 and 20 000 euros – often more – per year and care place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] But if we manage to keep as many people as possible who want to be cared for at home there, we will, of course, spare ourselves a lot from a financial point of view for the general state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The focus of the People's Party is therefore to strengthen the caring families massively, not only financially but also organisationally, for example with the introduction or strengthening of day care facilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Plessl.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, care will definitely have to be a very large part of the political debate in this House over the next few years. [[Abg. Plessl:... Holiday money paid...!]] Finally, I would like to make the following request on the subject of the provision of funds on the basis of the ban on the right to care so that it can also be debated: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call for broad support for this amendment which I have tabled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19297	This amendment is also properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Birgit Sandler's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19322	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Personal assistance is already uniformly regulated for the working world for people with severe disabilities, but it looks different in leisure and in schools. That is why we of course support Daniela Holzinger's request – because we have already tabled this request ourselves – that there should finally be uniform rules in these areas throughout the country. People with disabilities have the right to participate in all social areas of life. They sometimes need a little more support, and we are in duty, so I think they should be given them. On the requests made by Mr Holzinger: We are not going to agree with the first request she has made – that of increasing the limits of the exemption – for the simple reason that our amendment, which Christoph Matznetter has read out, makes a slightly higher amount of allowances. I call on the colleague to vote in favour of this. In the second request for the abolition or reimbursement of the NoVA we would, of course, prefer to have an exemption from the NoVA in the case of disabled vehicles. However, in order to help people relatively quickly, we will also vote in favour. Mr Minister, as a former financier, I believe that as a financier of these expenditures, of course, the heart beats a little faster, but quite honestly: Whenever it comes to people with disabilities, for example, when it comes to the support of the caregivers who support our family in the care at home, which is now up-to-date when it comes to children and women, it is about saving and spending. In other things, we don't take that very important. And quite honestly: I'm really tired of that! We can save on other things, but not on those people who are not doing well anyway and who urgently need our support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have another editorial amendment and therefore tabled another amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you and luck! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19442	This amendment is also properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Dagmar Belakovich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19469	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Once again, a very basic note on what Mr Finanzminister made yesterday: He stood up and warned that it could be too expensive now, especially the pensions and the care allowance would burden the budget for a fee. Mr Federal Minister, I have to tell you honestly: It's a bit horrendous already, that it's always going to be screamed when it comes to giving people something. Whenever money is distributed in the social sector or if, as in the case of a pension increase which is a little above the normal pension increase, the same is said to be true: Is that all possible at all? – And I find that embarrassing for a country like Austria. We spend so much money in this country. I believe that pensioners too have a right to participate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The annual valorization of the care allowance, which you have also mentioned in your speech contribution, is – quite honestly – something that has been overdue for many years. Despite the annual valorization taking place from 1.1.2020, we have a 35 percent funding gap. That is, the loss of value of the care allowance since introduction is 35 percent. So quite honestly: You should also leave the church in the village a little bit and say: Yes, these are essential expenditures!, especially since minimum pensioners are immediately putting everything in the consumption, that is, that comes back immediately into the state bag. Whatever I would like to discuss – we have heard it several times today and my previous speaker has also talked about it – the people with disabilities and, above all, the NoVA are. We know that the refunding of the NoVA has unfortunately been abolished; this, of course, is a huge burden, especially for people with disabilities who depend on their vehicle. We know that unemployment rates are 50 percent and more for people with disabilities in particular. I think it is the wrong way to build up difficulties in this area as well. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point I would like to address – which my colleague Worm has already mentioned – is the fact that in Austria there is a 13th and 14ths. The salary is very dear to the Austrians. This 13th and 14ths. Special payment is regulated by the CVs. However, we know that in Austria 2 percent of employees do not have such a KV, for them it is probably in discretion or contract design. We want these people to enjoy the 13th and 14th. I therefore tabled an amendment to the Commission's proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables. Total amendment by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, Josef Muchitsch, colleagues concerning ‘legislative anchoring of the disbursement of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection, is asked to forward a government proposal to the National Council with the - special payments to the extent of an additional 13th and 14th full monthly salary for all those areas in which such payments are not or are no longer contained in a collective agreement; - a circumvention of the special payments is prevented by the fact that, if it has not been agreed free of charge, an appropriate fee is due in accordance with § 1152 ABGB - at least to the extent of the current section 67 para. 1 and 2 EStG and the cancellation of the payment of the housing contribution and the Chamber of Workers' allowance for holiday and Christmas allowances; - and a broad scope for the collective contractual partners as regards the framework conditions for the disbursement of special payments (such as quarterly disbursement and similar) remains." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this is an important step, and I ask for your consent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:32]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Total amendment by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, Josef Muchitsch, Peter Wurm and other Members concerning the legal anchoring of the disbursement of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary In the course of the debate at the meeting of the National Council on Thursday, the 19th meeting was held. September 2019 to Top 8.) Request by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on legal anchoring of the disbursement of 13th and 14ths Monthly salary (975/A(E)) Holiday and Christmas money for self-employed Employment is one of the special achievements of the trade union for workers in Austria. There is almost no collective agreement in which these special payments are not secured. A 2014 IFES survey showed the importance of these special payments for employees in Austria. 36 percent needed these for daily expenditure. In 2008, it was “only” 32 percent. In addition, 36 percent reported the need for funds for pension provision or for later purchases, covering 18 percent of the debt and bank transfers. For use number 1, however, the holiday remained. Accordingly, it is important that this achievement is legally secured. However, it must also be ensured that a law does not create gaps. It must not be possible for a law to shorten the current fee or for the special payments to lose their tax advantage. At present, the annual half-year with only 6 per cent wage tax and a free amount of 620 euros will be favoured taxly. Furthermore, the special payments do not include a housing contribution, nor a working-chamber pay. There is no collective agreement applicable to around 2% of employees, and it is up to the parties to the labour contract to agree on special payments at all, with § 1152 of the ABGB. Accordingly, it is important for this group of employees to find a rule that there is no means of circumvention, so that the twelve monthly salaries are simply divided into 14 months' salaries, thereby preventing the employees from making special payments. According to the IFES survey mentioned above, 94 percent want to pay out before the summer and Christmas as before. A share of monthly disbursement is rejected by the majority. In other sectors, however, a quarterly payout is also common. As there are very different needs and uses here, a corresponding scope for collective agreements must be ensured. Because the employees themselves and their collective contract negotiators from the trade unions know best what they need. The legal anchoring of the disbursement of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary must therefore be immediately legislated. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection, is asked to forward a government proposal to the National Council with the • Special payments to the extent of an additional 13th and 14th full monthly salary for all those areas where such payments are not or are no longer included in a collective agreement • a circumvention of the special payments is prevented by the fact that, if it has not been agreed free of charge, an appropriate fee is due in accordance with § 1152 ABGB • at least to the extent of the currently existing § 67 para. 1 and 2 EStG and the cancellation of the payment of the housing contribution and the Chamber of Workers' allowance for holiday and Christmas allowances; • and a wide-ranging scope of the collective contractual partners as regards the framework conditions for the disbursement of special payments (such as quarterly disbursement and similar) remains."
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19890	The motion for a resolution and the amendment as a whole have been properly tabled, both of which are under negotiation. The next item is Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19914	Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The first point I would like to address is the receipt of the exemption from VAT in respect of farm transfers in the flat-rate agricultural and forestry farms. This is necessary in order to provide the necessary room for young business leaders to make innovative and sustainable ideas and investment in the future of businesses. With regard to the management structure, our farm leaders in the agriculture and forestry sector are European champions, as far as the age is concerned. 22 percent of the managers are under 40 years old, and this should continue to be the case in the future. Secondly, I would like to take a very brief look at the tax reform package adopted today: discharge Austria. This amounts to a total of 700 million euros for the entire population in Austria. This creates a tax quota reduction, but in particular we create more net of gross. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] At the beginning of the legislative period already started to reduce low incomes. This has begun with the contribution of unemployment insurance contributions, it has continued with the family bonus plus, which is with 1. January this year has entered into force and brings in 1 500 euros per child per year, and the third part is that of the discharge of Austria, through which employees have more than 300 euros per year and pensioners have more than 200 euros per year, but also self-employed and farmers are not forgotten. I would like to point out that a total of 130,500 agricultural and forestry family farms are affected. Previously, it was mentioned that they are particularly beneficial. - No, it's not! I'll give you an example: An agricultural and forestry holding with a unit value of 15 000 euros remains in the year 270 euros. It is a good decision that we implement this, from which everyone in Austria benefits. We want to continue this successful path even after the election. You, ladies and gentlemen, give us the opportunity if you give us your vote in the election to ensure a sustainable budget for the future and above all responsible handling of the tax money in the sense of generation justice. We are mainly concerned with the people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19963	The next item is Mrs Kira Grünberg's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e19988	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Since many different requests are being debated under one point, I would like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber on the improvement of personal assistance. I would like to make a kind of journey of thought with you today, so that you too can understand what it means to take personal assistance, and what it can mean if you as a person with disabilities have no opportunity to get personal assistance. Imagine you have a disability! Maybe you're sitting in the wheelchair, maybe you have a half-sided paralysis due to a stroke. They need help in the early days when dressing, in the shower, even in food preparation. All these activities are currently taking on family members, either your parents or perhaps even your partner or your siblings. But your parents and your partners need to go to work like everyone else, they're not there during the day. That means, in the morning your mother helps you out of bed and all day long, you sit at home and wait until people come back to support you. You are becoming increasingly unhappy, more dissatisfied with your life. You don't know if your life is worth living and you get more and more depression. They have already applied for personal assistance, but have been waiting for a year to get the promise, because the waiting list is so long and so many people with disabilities want personal assistance. Now we make a leap into the future, maybe three years or four years later: They now have support through personal assistance. They're a lot on the go, they've become much more self-confidence, and the most beautiful thing about it: You have been given the opportunity to apply, and you have found a job. In the early morning, go with your assistant to your job, she will accompany you there, and at your workplace you can do most things very independently, as the workplace has been adapted for you. Personal assistance can therefore change life – it has also changed my life, I myself live with personal assistance, without this help I could not stand here today, speak and practice my job. You are now part of society, you can lead a self-determined and fulfilled life. You can take care of yourself and afford things. I hope I was able to show a little what personal assistance is, that personal assistance can change life and change life to the positive. Much has recently been debated on the subject of care. I would like to stress once again that care for older people is something quite different from personal assistance for people with disabilities. We must definitely take this into account. That is why we support this motion for a resolution by the People's Party. In addition, we will also agree with the amendment tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber on the reimbursement of the NOVA for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20034	Next speaker: Mrs Tanja Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20058	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at home! We have heard a lot and very different about the tax reform today. I would like to look again at this first stage of tax reform from the point of view of an entrepreneur and as a representative of the economy. We have set ourselves the goal of reforming Austria and thus easing the Austrians and Austrians in a sustainable way. We now succeed in today's decision to launch the first part of the tax reform. The tax burden instead of burdening is also the motto of this tax reform, which also benefits many stakeholders of low incomes, namely, by the already mentioned reduction in social security contributions of 700 million euros. All of them remain more net of gross. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Members of the ÖVP hold panels with the title ‘Tax relief’. More net of gross.” and the added “Part 1” in the height with a check-in box.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: What's on it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This applies not only to the self-employed and farmers, but also to the many low-earners, as the dear colleagues of the SPÖ claim. However, I would like to focus on the simplification and simplification of small businesses and the economy, because Austria is known to have one of the highest tax and tax rates at over 42 percent. First signs of possible changes in the economy mean a major challenge for entrepreneurs anyway. That is why the reduction and reduction of tax and bureaucratic burdens is now also at the right time, and they are correct and important for us. I am pleased that our businesses – especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our economy – benefit from several measures. On the one hand, small businesses will benefit from a simple set-aside and the increase in the small business limit from 30 000 to 35 000 euros per year. This helps 350 000 entrepreneurs. On the other hand, by doubling the threshold for the immediate depreciation of low-valued goods to 800 euros, a long-term overdue measure and a call for the economy is implemented. The last increase in the value limit was almost 20 years ago. This means that objects such as smartphone, printers and laptops no longer need to be distributed over several years in the tax declaration. Simplification and less bureaucracy on the one hand go hand in hand with social policy decisions and reliefs for our businesses on the other. The penalty-free period for the monthly contribution base is extended to 31.3.2020, the reduction of health insurance contributions for the self-employed is 0.85 percent. So, summa summa, we can say that with the first part of the tax reform, we consistently implement our intention to relieve Austrians, and thus make our contribution that in the final effect they have more net of gross in the pocket of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20105	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20140	Madam President. High house! Yes, Mr. Leichtfried! It's right now that you're here because I want to say a few words to you today. You also mentioned me on the subject of occupational health telephones, which is a subject for us in the region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] But now we're also talking a bit about the truth. It's interesting who's reporting on the subject with me. You could have called me and said: You, colleague, we have a subject in our region! - No, you didn't, and today you're talking important. Those who have reported are quite different people, these are the works councils of the affected companies. They reported to me in July and told me about the problem. It was very interesting. I then promised them, since I am not necessarily the great social politician and now I have no real idea of the matter, to make a fact-finding check and to support their concerns once in our group. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I did so too, and the corresponding talks took place as well. This issue is currently under negotiation and from our side we are looking for a positive conclusion for all concerned. Only one thing we certainly don't do: agree to a red Hudry change that comes when we negotiate it right now. You don't do that! That's not correct and that's not decent. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is an example of what I mean by our employees. On the contrary, you do the following: Discounts on the subject of special pension. In July, a few requests were made, a motion for a resolution and an initiative from the SPÖ. We have agreed to the motion for a resolution, which has shown that this issue is one of our own, and we do not agree with your own initiative. We have said that we are going into negotiations, which is too unforgettable. We're gonna do this shit and make it sit, fit and have air. What's your colleague Wimmer doing? – He goes here and lies to the workers, says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] The FPÖ is opposed to the workers, rejects the abolition of the deductions.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20206	Deputies! I think I've got you right. They know that the term “lying ” requires a call for order. If I heard you right there, I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20235	Let's say: consciously said the untruth. He has always said that we did not agree to this request and would be against the workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's it! What's today? - Today it will be abolished. It has been decided and negotiated. Let us be honest, Mr Wimmer. What are you doing? - That's your method. I know it's elections, but we don't need that. [[Further calls to the SPÖ as well as to the Deputies of Worm.]] It's like I'm just going here and telling the workers the truth. You're not doing that! That's not decent, that's not correct, that's not fair. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same applies to the 13th and 14th years. Monthly salary. You claim that we would refuse to put that into law. That's not true, it's happening today. So please, colleagues from the SPÖ, don't be surprised when the workers in the region give us the voice on the 29th and not you!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20293	Mr Kai Jan Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20317	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zanger said a very correct and important sentence – immediately at the beginning – because he said he didn't know about social policy so well and he wasn't an expert. That's what you've noticed in the speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: But that I informed myself, I also said!]] If you want an expert, you will be listening to the SPÖ. However, you will be happy to receive additional hours at any time. [[Abg. Singer: From you...?]] We find this totally great that now, two months after we have made these proposals, you decide here together a number of things. I do not understand why you are now complaining that the proposals have come from us. We are the experts in social policy, and you need to get used to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: I just hope that many people see what you say!]] You have to say: As budget and financial spokespersons, I mean getting used to being sober and relying on facts. What already irritates me about a bit is how the fact-free here is partly spoken or acted in the election campaign. The former mayor of Vienna has once said that election campaign is not the time of focused intelligence, which he is not wrong. However, I am already startled when I passed through the city or heard colleagues from Wöginger, who said – and this is then briefly documented by the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic – that the taxes will continue to fall so that taxes will continue to fall. If you look at how taxes have developed over the past 25 years, you have to say that the tax and tax rate is relatively stable. There was a big outsider up there, which was when Karl-Heinz was Grasser Minister of Finance. That's how high taxes were before and after. They are essentially stable. If I look at it in detail, then the total taxes in Austria fell in 2016, they fell in 2017. So you have to say, Both during the Faymann/Mitterlehner government and during the Kern/Mitterlehner government, taxes and taxes have fallen in Austria. And what happened in 2018 under short/street? - They've gone up. So please place and don't say things that don't vote here! The taxes and taxes fell under red-black in 2016, 2017 and increased under black-blue. That's just the sober facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Worm has gone out and has said quite remarkable things at all. [[Abg. Worm: Truth...!]] He said: The principle ‘45 years are enough’, since the SPÖ has ‘not been able to do so in decades’ time. That's a great sentence, you have to let yourself be broken on the tongue. What is the truth? – The truth is that for decades 45 years were always enough until FPÖ and ÖVP abolished this. That's the truth. They abolished this principle in 2005. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: No, Mr. Krainer,... story!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] What happened is that, when we came to the government in 2007, we at least extended this principle. Today, we are once again adopting this principle and you agree to a SPÖ proposal. That's great anyway, but has nothing to do with the sentence you said here. Please stick to the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Fuchs is even the best. The SPÖ makes proposals towards tax reduction, and this is quite right, because all international experts say: With you, taxes and taxes on work are too high, please lower them! – The SPÖ does. We have done this in recent years, we are making proposals in this direction. But these experts say the same thing: Taxation on assets and capital is too low in Austria and you have a tax structure problem: One pay too much, the other pay too little. . We present a proposal that is based on the German model – in Germany there is the inheritance tax – then Mr Fuchs is eager to develop theoretical examples where there may be problems, namely in the case of company handovers. You don't have to look for any theoretical examples. [[Abg. Fuchs: This is your calculation model, Mr. Cot!]] Every year, Mr Fuchs, an inheritance tax is due in Germany in 600,000 cases, and the farm transfers in Germany are not a problem. Bring the problems out of practice in Germany, then let us talk about these problems and don't invent any air locks that don't exist at all! [[Abg. Stefan: That's exactly the topic!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fuchs: You can't count, Mr. Krainer!]] So, to the present request: There are a lot of things inside that are good. We support it. We particularly support the fact that workers with low incomes will pay less taxes or taxes. Whether the social security bonus is called or not, it's under the heading up to 300 euros. Why do we think this is so good? - Because you have written it off from our request. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] We made a request in June, in which exactly this model was inside. In July, you introduced one in which you have written one down, but with a small beauty mistake: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] In our model, the workers would have received the money next year, and in your model they must wait a year longer. That is what we think is wrong, therefore, of course we will vote against this part, because we believe that the workers should receive their money next year, 2020, and not only 2021. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They themselves have now also presented a model, namely for farmers and self-employed people. Interestingly, they get their money already in 2020 and not 2021. I'm asking: Why are workers worse people? Why do they have to wait a year longer? I don't understand. As for your model under the title Low Earner: Have you ever looked at what this is leading to? – This means that someone with 6 000 euros grossly pays about 600 euros less in health insurance contributions and someone with 1 000 euros gross, a small self-employed person, almost 7 euros per month less. That's her model: The little ones get brittle, the big ones get the big money, and although the intention is to reduce taxes and taxes for the low-earners. I don't understand the world anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] But we also make proposals on how things are going better. For example, climate protection. There is a good part inside, that has been said by Mr Kopf, namely the exemption from the electricity tax from own electricity. Now there are different ways to travel. For example, if you want to go to Tyrol, you can fly. How high is the taxation of the fuel when you fly to Tyrol? - Zero, there is no tax on flying. If you take the train, so choose the most environmentally friendly way, there the fuel, namely the electricity, is taxed extra. We make a request that the railway be exempt from this electricity tax. The train will drive 100 per cent with eco electricity, which is 100 per cent renewable energy, and we will tax it! That is not a political question. If a person flies from Vienna to Innsbruck, he doesn't pay a tax when driving by train, then he pays a tax – no one understands that! I don't understand either. I invite everyone to put an end to this and to agree to our request. We have also tabled a number of other proposals. Just one more word on the digital tax: This is a very important point. What you present here, however, is similar to the dog tax in Vienna. Even the sparkling wine tax, which you always say is a bagatell tax, is twice as high as that digital tax you bring in here. Believe that if you make such a mini-mini tax, Facebook, Amazon or anyone else trembles and says: Now I really have to pay a fair contribution in Austria? - No, they pay Peanuts! In doing so, I fear – because this tax is poorly constructed – that they will not even pay this tax. They have already announced that they will complain about it, and I am afraid they will win because the tax is inadequately constructed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We'll probably lose that together at the end of the day because it's made bad. I'm sorry. It would be good if you write down more of our ideas and don't develop things yourself – then keep things in court, then they're socially just and then they work too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20530	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I am now asking – with regard to the various agenda items – whether reporting on Agenda items 7 to 9 according to § 63 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. - That's not the case. Then I ask whether the report on Agenda items 2 to 6 and 10 is a final word. – That is not the case either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. As you have pointed out, during the debate there has been a large number of amendments, supplementary and resolution proposals which have been tabled. In view of this abundance of requests, it would not be possible to prepare the Croquis for the vote during a short part-session. I will therefore put the vote on Agenda items 2 to 10 at a later date. The Parliamentary Directorate will inform you in good time when we can carry out these votes. Since there is a urgent request, I will interrupt the meeting briefly and arrive at 3 p.m. – that is in 2 minutes – to call the urgent request. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.58 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] [[15:00:34]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Peter Pilz, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice on ‘Cyber Attack, Disinformation Attack and Other Affairs’ (4173/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e20595	I will now resume the interrupted session. We come to the urgent debate on the written question 4173/J. I very much welcome Mr Clemens Jabloner to our centre. [[Vice-chanc Jabloner rises from his place and bows first towards the President, then towards the Members.]] As this question has now been distributed to all Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e21466	I declare Mr. Dr. Peter Pilz as the first questioner to justify the request in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr deputies, you know, a maximum of 20 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e21491	Madam President. Thank you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for the fact that you have not made a very common signal and have clearly signaled Parliament that other dates are not as important as a urgent request in this House! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will begin with a simple statement of facts and add some facts to them. ==References== September of this year, the weekly journal “Falter” published a document that is intended to demonstrate that the Austrian People’s Party is planning for the second time to deliberately ignore the statutory election cost restrictions of 7 million euros in the 2019 National Council election campaign and thus deliberately break an applicable law for the second time – after 2017. Now the People's Party and Sebastian Kurz could have done what he and his party did in 2017, namely to say for a while: If not, it is not true, we have not done, we are not so, the others are to blame, these are all filthy doves!, and if all of this is no longer useful, to say: Uh, we're sorry. Now we're apologizing – and just continue. We have this excuse for the conscious violation of law in 2017 by Sebastian Kurz and his team still in the ear. Now is 2019, and that will be published. And now something totally amazing happens: The Austrian People's Party does not go here and say: Something's happened to us! So, no, that happens a second time, we're awfully unpleasant, we're sorry! – This time is not the case, this time a completely new player appears in the turquoise game: the hacker. [[Rejoicing with representatives of Now, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] The hacker appears, and on the 5th. September, two days after the appearance of the “Falter”, the head of the People’s Party can already be found in the breast-tones of the party’s conviction: A hacker attack! Unknown hackers hacked the ÖVP server. Sebastian Kurz literally: “This is not only an attack on the People’s Party, but also an attack on the democratic system (...).” This is not an attack on the People's Party, it is an attack on democracy. Appearance Nehammer: "Hacker attack on the People's Party was an attack on democracy". The only problem is: Far and wide, there is no hacker to find – a hackerless hacker attack that is an attack on democracy. [[President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] Now there is the simplest way in the world to clarify this within a few days. The original accounting documents on the election costs and the election cost planning of the ÖVP are not included in the “Falter”. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, perhaps some of you even know that these original documents remain in the ÖVP. What do you do in such a situation? – One takes the “Falter”, puts the article down, one takes the ÖVP accounting documents, which are on the last backup – which are self-documentingly stored by the accounting software, you can’t delete at all – then puts them and says: That's no match at all, that's a fake! Or, what I'm going to have to assume at the moment: Ui jegerl, that's where Euro agrees for Euro, cent for cents, we have to – and then the whole movie goes off again: Yeah, we made a mistake there, and we apologize. At this point there is a meeting of the service in the public prosecutor's office in Vienna, a day after the great hacker declaration of the ÖVP Party Board. This meeting shall be attended by the following: Representatives of the Federal Criminal Office, the prosecutor, of course, and representatives of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism, I will come back to that, because something has happened. But first of all, to this meeting: At this meeting, are the representatives of the EIAs taking part in this meeting presented the accounting documents? - No, still not. [[Call the FPÖ: Better not!]] But then the discussion and the investigation strategy will be discussed, and this is, as far as I know, but this is a question we address to the Federal Minister: Let's try to clear up the hacker attack first, and the simplest question – namely: Are these the true accounting documents true, is that what is in the “Falter ”? – Let's finish! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know when the end is? – With certainty after the National Council election. [[Abg. Black: For you too!]] There I would like to know: Who is bringing an independent prosecutor of the Republic of Austria to shift the only fact that can be clarified easily and on the spot to the time after the National Council election? Is there perhaps a role, Minister of Justice, that this is the only fact of which not only the ÖVP knows that it is fire dangerous for the ÖVP and Sebastian Kurz? If, after one day, an investigation is carried out Comparison of these documents: Yes, that is true!, then the election campaign of the ÖVP has a real problem, because then Sebastian Kurz is not a single perpetrator and not a one-time culprit in the violation of the party law, but a deliberate repeater, an intentional lawbreaker; and you do not want to go as an old chancellor or as a chancellor in Spe into an election campaign and constantly have to declare: Oh, that's what happened to me. I didn't want to be a repeat culprit. Now I would like to have answered this question because it is not so easy with the other investigations. Now I come back to the investigations and ask: Who's gonna find out here? – On the one hand, there is the Cyber Crime Competence Center, C4, from the Federal Criminal Office; quite rightly, there are the right people in the right place. From the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, the CSC is represented there, the Cyber Security Center; quite rightly, the competent people are in the right place. Who is the boss and who was the head of the Cyber Security Center at the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection at the time of the BAT Investigation Committee? – A certain Philipp B., well-known to the members of this committee. Did Mr. Philipp B. have a second function next to the management of the Cyber Security Center? – Yes, he was deputy chairman of the Lower Austrian Association Pro Patria. What is the Lower Austrian Association Pro Patria? – This is a Tarnverein of the Austrian People’s Party, where Gernot Blümel used to be a cashier; he can’t remember it anymore, but he’s in the club register – probably everything is fading! We will soon clear up the club register hacker attack, where Gernot Blümel has been planted into a defenseless club register. Imagine how far we have come to Austria! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] And who's in the Pro Patria club? Who's the waitress? – The head of the black network in the BAT, Bernhard P., against which the major procedures associated with the BAT run. Who's the cashier? – Another black V-man from the BAT. What is the task of Pro Patria? – Wide and broad documented: Troll appearances and Internet disinformation in election campaigns. Well documented! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Well, certain people from the Constitutional Protection already know how to do it. [[Call the ÖVP: No longer long!]] I ask you, Minister of Justice: How is it that such people conduct such investigations? How's that? – I know that you are not the right address, because you are not responsible for the staffing of the Ministry of the Interior, I do not want to put this to you at all, but I am asking you to pass this question on to the appropriate Minister of the Interior as soon as possible. I very much welcomed it, as the Minister of the Interior said, in Soko Ibiza is an official who sent a text message – we ask for the content of this text – and this officer with FPÖ sewing was immediately removed from Soko. Why can the black V people, the people from the black network stay in both Sokos? – I don't understand! I would not like to say to any of the ministers involved that they represent the interests of a party here because, for example, Minister of the Interior Peshorn in the "ZIB 2" has clearly stated that he is willing and willing to act against black, blue and discolored networks in the Ministry of the Interior. I think he is very credible in this regard. Please, Mr Justice Minister – you can't explain this yourself – help us as a member of the Federal Government in this investigation! It can't go on like this. What about the hacker? What happened? – So: 1 terabyte data was sucked off by the ÖVP server – via a gate server chain, that is, via an extremely complicated encryption with extremely slow lines – and transferred to a French server. Do you know how long it takes to transfer to another server at the Tor 1.3 Terabyte transmission speed? - Pretty much exactly a month. But now you have to assume that the fire risk hacker did not claim 100 percent of the lines, because then the network of the ÖVP would have collapsed and everyone would have knew that something happened. Such attacks, such derivations, are carried out about 25 percent in the capacity range, so that they remain semi-unobtrusive. You have to accept it according to international experience: four months. So, the experts of the ÖVP put on 11 November. August fixed: There is who invaded, with keys, with ÖVP keys; with the key of a high-ranking ÖVP functionary, because the ÖVP as a security party has the keys to the server and to the intranet – the same, by the way, which is completely absurd in security policy – swirl around somewhere. So now the bowls – let's say Gernot Blümel; there can be someone else, this question will still be answered – because somewhere, then the mysterious hacker comes and transmits data. ==References== August, it is claimed, the invasion takes place, on 17 August. The "Falter" already has the data on August. – That could not have been this flow of data, that is completely excluded. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There must have been at least two data flows: a short one with information on accounting to the “Falter” – a bookkeeping includes about 1 gigabyte – and a long with about 1 300 gigabytes, encrypted via gate to a French server. The following needs to be examined, and I would ask you, Minister of Justice, to do this as closely as possible: Who is interested in the fact that undistorted data is coming out? – These are mules and these are hackers in certain situations; they want to compromise a party or anyone with real data. Who is interested in the fact that counterfeit data on complicated ways comes out in large quantities? – All the experts, and I have talked to many, say: That is exactly what indicates a so-called false flag attack, an attack that is staged and serves disinformation. Mr Minister of Justice, I would like to have you examine carefully whether there has been a moustache that gave a clear amount of data in a short period of time to a weekly magazine, and perhaps a false flag attack with large amounts of data, a great confusion that serves the disinformation of the Austrian population. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] [[Abg. Hoefinger: Who was...?]] There we are now at Fakes: You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, always talk about fakes. Let's talk about fakes! You have no evidence for a hacker to this day, you still have no evidence of an external attack, but what we have is evidence that it has gone differently with ever greater probability. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It is not about saying today in Parliament that it was that way – that is neither our task nor can we say it – but we can say: [[new call to the ÖVP]] It is increasingly pointing in a certain direction. When it comes to fakes, there is a party in this Republic that is a specialist for fakes, and that is the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Steinacker:... Understand!]] The Austrian People's Party is the Fakemeister Party of the Republic of Austria. I would like to explain this to you on harmless examples: Have you seen the video where the old chancellor and, as it is currently looking, future Federal Chancellor will explain where he came from on 11.10.2017? – I quote: “I’m from Vienna [...], from Meidling, a working-class district.” [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] ==References== September 2019 will be the next video: ‘I come’ [...] from the forest district’, ‘a small community, [...] about 100 inhabitants’. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, now give me an answer in all honesty: Someone who does his birthplace is also able to engage in a hacker attack. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinacker: This is so ridiculous what you are producing, Mr Pilz!]] – No, I say one to you, Mrs Colleague: That's not ridiculous. If it turns out that there has been a hacker attack on a political party, which I consider extremely unlikely, then this is not ridiculous, but a serious attack on institutions of the Republic of Austria and also on Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer]] If there is a mole in the ÖVP, then it is more your problem and no problem of the Republic of Austria, and it speaks a lot for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] But if there has been a false flag attack, a staged, faked, faked attack with a single purpose, namely to disinform the Austrian population, then this is not ridiculous, Mrs Colleague, but that is the worst thing that can happen in an election campaign! I can hardly imagine anything worse than resorting to such means in order to distract myself from its own law-abiding intentions regarding party law and election cost financing, possibly inventing a hacker attack. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] No, Mrs. Colleague, that's not ridiculous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] This is a very serious situation, and it is very important to me that this is clarified by the competent bodies of criminal justice. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: But he doesn't come either...!]] So, I come to a second point, because he is also important to me personally: Mr. Justice Minister, how do you imagine that this case should be clarified? How do you imagine, Mr Justice Minister, that you can convince the Vienna Public Prosecutorship – we are not talking about instructions now, but we are just talking about making the necessary and the possible first – how can you ensure that there is a maximum of information and clarity before the National Council election? The Austrian population has a right to know what happened. Before being elected, there must be a fundamental certainty: Yes, it has been planned to violate laws by the Austrian People's Party; or: No, this is the Austrian People's Party Injustice has been assumed and documents have been faked. Mr Justice Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I urge you to make this clarification possible. It is not our duty to make rules for the judicial system in the event of investigations, that the National Council has never done, but I am here asking to make as much clarity as possible before the election date. The voters should know who they are choosing: whether they choose a party that has become a victim of a counterfeit, or whether they choose a party that has invented a hacker attack itself to distract them from its own intention of breaking the law. Whether this is right, the public prosecutor can check the bookkeeping documents and original documents of ÖVP accounts within a short period of time. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Mr. Justice Minister, make this possible! The Austrian population needs the truth before being elected. Mr. Justice Minister, give people a chance to make a judgment! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e21739	To answer the question, Mr Vice-Chancellor Justice Minister Dr. Jabloner spoke. Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e21763	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Dr. Pilz, I am very happy to inform you today about the state of the investigations in the proceedings of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna on the suspicion of unlawful access to the ÖVP's computer system and the related suspicion of data damage. This also opens up for me a good and appropriate opportunity, here at the public meeting of the National Council's plenary session, to the decision of the National Security Council of 11 May. To implement September 2019, with which the Federal Government was recommended – I quote literally – “to share with the public that information it has available regarding the alleged hacker attack on the ÖVP, which allows citizens to assess the situation on facts”. I am all the more willing to respond to this desire than I personally have a great concern that the citizens of our country can express their opinion on the basis of a fair, objective and manipulation-free campaign of elections. To the extent that justice, which allows for such opinion-making, can contribute to ensuring that those framework conditions are guaranteed, it will contribute. This concerns primarily the clarification of whether or not criminally relevant proceedings have taken place in the context of the election debate. Let me start by saying a few basic thoughts about my understanding of my role and my duties in relation to the prosecutors responsible for the investigation. In this regard, orientation offers the Constitution as well as at a simple legal level the Procuratorship Law and the Criminal Procedure Order. If constitutional dogmatically the importance of Article 90a B-VG of different interpretations may be accessible, it is my concern, as a representative of the administration institutions of ordinary jurisdiction, to meet with respect – respect, of course, which I also brought to the House and its control of the actions of, well-reserved, administration. However, my respect for ordinary jurisdiction is also supported by the Public Prosecutor's Act, which, since the last novel, has unbundled the prosecutor's offices with good reason to report on individual investigations in advance. This is good and important in order to be able to lead the investigation procedure unimpeded, according to the needs of the Enlightenment objectively and with full respect for the presumption of innocence. Certainly, the prosecutors have to inform you afterwards about significant investigations; I can tell you about no more and no less here, and I admit that my level of information must be of course flawless. It is not me or my criminal law section that carries out the investigation procedure, but rather the prosecutor's office in cooperation with the criminal police, who have access to the investigation documents and the investigation details alone. Much has been published and discussed about the tension relationship between the public's right to be informed of major criminal proceedings and the fundamental legal ties, in particular the protection of the presumption of innocence and the protection of personal data. The difficult weighting in the individual case is also based on the provisions of the publication ban according to § 54 StPO and § 35b StAG on the information of the media. Personal rights, the principle of the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair procedure also binds my information, in the context of which I also have to avoid a threat to the purpose of the investigation procedure. Nor do I see it as my task to turn the procedural principle of § 12 StPO, according to which the investigation procedure is not public, into its opposite in response to a urgent request. I already have to ask for an understanding that I can only provide limited information on the details of the investigations, in particular the content of orders and the further action; The same applies to information on persons who are not active in my department. The purpose of an investigation procedure is to clarify those concrete evidences that justify the suspicion of a crime. The feeding of speculations or presumptions is beyond the sense of a rule of law flawless investigation. I also point out here that not every ad against certain persons can justify an initial suspicion, so that at this stage there is a special significance for respect for personality rights, and especially in times of the so-called hot phase of an election debate. Please take into account that the prosecutors do well not to be taken politically; their focus is solely on the objective reconnaissance of concrete suspicions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Under these premises and in accordance with the decision of the National Security Council already quoted by me, I can state the state of my information on the investigation procedure of the StA Summary Vienna's access to data from the ÖVP as follows. "On Monday the 2nd. In September 2019, the ÖVP issued alleged “accounting documents” to the public listing “electional Battle Costs”. These documents would demonstrate how the ÖVP deliberately circumvents the legal requirements for covering the election costs. Four days after the publication of the documents, on Thursday 5th. September 2019, the ÖVP informed by means of a press conference that it had become the victim of a targeted hack attack.” – I quote from the decision of the National Security Council of 11 September 2019. September. ==References== On September 9, 2019, the ÖVP also returned an advertisement to the Ministry of the Interior because of the data leak it had suspected and verified by its own research. On the same day, an investigation team consisting of BKA and BAT staff was set up. On the following day a first meeting with the StA Vienna as well as first on-site surveys, i.e. a first survey of the participants and a first-view of documents, took place. The number specified by the StA Vienna to a specified number on 6 June. In September 2019, investigation proceedings opened against previously unknown perpetrators due to the suspicion of unlawful access to a computer system, § 118a Abs. 1 Z 2 StGB, and the data damage, § 126a para. 1 StGB, to the detriment of the ÖVP. Several investigation steps have already been taken since the ad was received. For example, technical and data-forensic investigations were carried out by the investigative team and investigations were carried out in order to verify the facts presented in the advertisement. In addition, this criminal case has existed since the 10th century. In September, a close cooperation with Europol. The previous investigations confirm the suspicion that an unknown culprit will be present from the 27th century onwards. July 2019 has provided access to the entire ÖVP-IT network. In the light of the previous investigations, it should also be assumed that this unknown perpetrator has at least carried out an administrative password change in the internal IT network of the ÖVP. This temporarily disables authorised administrators from the affected EDP application of the ÖVP. In addition, it was found that it was in any case between 30. ==References== In September 2019, there was a larger amount of illegal data transfer. Some 463 gigabytes were sent to a French target server. ==References====External links== It also sent a detailed written request for legal assistance from StA Wien to the French law enforcement authorities on 9 September. Because of new investigative knowledge there is now a suspicion that at least an unknown perpetrator, first, in Vienna in the time of 27. ==References== On September 27, 2019, to a computer system which he was not allowed to or not to have on his own, or to some part of it by overcoming a specific security provision in the computer system, he intended to access another data stored by the use of the system and not specified for him, whose knowledge he is aware of, or by using the computer system, by accessing multiple servers of the ÖVP and at least 52 zip files with a size of 463.13 GB, sifted, sent to an external FTP server in France; second, on 27 September 2019, to a computer system with which he has not been able to have access, or to some part of it, to a specific security system. July 2019 to have damaged another one by accessing from the outside the network application of the ÖVP, implementing a password change and thus allowing the authorised administrators of the ÖVP to access the application. In view of this expanded suspicion, the StA has Vienna on 18 November. In September 2019, an extended European investigation order was addressed to the French law enforcement authorities. The identification of the person who has obtained unlawful access to the ÖVP's IT system according to the previous findings is the subject of ongoing investigations. I can assure you that law enforcement agencies are working with great emphasis. The prosecutor and under his leadership, the criminal police are here, as always, identifying the facts in the area to clarify possible criminal conduct relevant to criminal law, no matter who, and not as a matter of priority, especially for the election campaign of politically interesting aspects. In this context, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to the StA Vienna and in particular its experts for the initiative approach and commitment in cooperation with the Special Commission of the Federal Criminal Office. High house! I now answer the questions specifically asked me as follows: Questions 1 to 3: I have no information on who specifically took part in the meeting on 6.9.2019 and what was discussed in this meeting. According to my information, the representatives of the ÖVP have also provided evidence of a hacker attack to a considerable extent; however, at what time I am aware of it. Questions 4 to 11: As in any investigation procedure, the investigation activity of prosecutors and criminal police is based solely on the facts in the area. The purpose of the investigations is solely to clarify a possible criminal conduct which is always relevant to anyone. Therefore, the investigation procedure at which it is made is based solely on investigational tactics. Tactic considerations or special treatment of aspects of particular political interest in the election campaign have no influence on the work of the investigative authorities. What concrete investigation steps the StA is taking on the basis of which considerations are taking place, is the outflow of its activities as the body of jurisdiction and therefore the Parliamentary Interpellation not accessible. There was no meeting of the StA Vienna procedure. In the display submitted by the ÖVP to the BMI, the suspicion of a transfer of falsified data to the press is also expressed. Whether and to what extent leaked data has subsequently been falsified is the subject of ongoing investigations. Questions 12 to 17 as well as 39 to 50: On these questions I would like to refer to my introductory remarks, in which I presented the current state of the investigation on the basis of the information available to me, in so far as this was necessary for the information of the public in order to assess the situation on facts and, on the other hand, without endangering further investigations in the ongoing proceedings. In any event, the ÖVP has sent to the investigative authorities the analysis report which it has sent to the public prior to ad-receipt. Researchers have also been granted access to any log files and analytical systems. A technical expert in the investigation group is also on-site on-site and conducts on-site inspections. Furthermore, it is not my duty as Minister of Justice to introduce speculations to potential actors. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Questions 18 to 22: The StA Wien has learned of the hacker attacks on the ÖVP from the media and on 5.9.2019 a separate investigation document has been made. The publication of the specific investigation contracts would endanger the ongoing investigation procedure, so I cannot provide any information about this. I refer to the terms of reference and the status of proceedings. The Federal Criminal Office is investigating the police department and, according to the information available to me, experts from the BAT have also been invited to the investigation team. Questions 23 to 32: I have no information on the identity of the specific investigators. However, I would point out that for data protection reasons, such personal data cannot be disclosed within the framework of a parliamentary request. By the way, as Minister of Justice, I have no influence on the composition of the criminal police investigation team. The examination of any partiality in this area is solely the responsibility of the competent head of the Interior and therefore does not concern my area of competence. Questions 33 to 38: As indicated in the introduction, it is currently being identified against unknown perpetrators because of the suspicion of unlawful access to a computer system and data damage to the detriment of the ÖVP. There is no evidence to the extent that there is no evidence to suggest a criminal act, respectable is not determined in this direction. Questions 51 to 54: There is no indication of this. On question 55: No instructions were given. On question 56: To date, the StA Wien has submitted two information reports, so-called interim reports, to the Vienna Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which date from 13.9.2019 and 18.9.2019, each of which reports on the state of the art of the investigations. On questions 57 to 59: There is evidence that personal data have been sucked off by the ÖVP server within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation. A notification under Article 33 GDPR has been refunded. This notification was filed with the Data Protection Authority on 5.9.2019. The content of the notification shall be the subject of a procedure to be conducted by the Data Protection Authority in full independence. I therefore cannot give any further information on this question. Questions 60 to 64: ==References== June 2019 brought the ÖVP federal party, the Vienna state party of the ÖVP, Sebastian Kurz and Mag. Gernot Blümel submits a statement of facts to the StA Vienna by her legally-friendly representation, in which evidence of the alleged manipulations was also presented or offered. This case-law was taken by StA Wien for the occasion of the initiation of an investigation procedure against unknown perpetrators on the grounds of § 108 para. 1 StGB. Since the said mail has been sent in accordance with the previous state of knowledge using a registered IP address, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna according to § 76a Abs. 2 StPO to provide information on parent and access data in accordance with § 99 para. 5 Z 2 TKG for an Internet access service arranged and implemented in the legal aid way. I cannot give any information on the further details of the non-public investigation procedure. Questions 65 to 69: According to the information available to me, the Soko Ibiza is involved in the investigations of the Causa e-mail affair. The composition falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior, who is also responsible for the examination of all the partialities of its members. I am therefore seeking to understand that I cannot provide any information here. On questions 70 and 71: The answer to these questions also concerns the area of competence of the Minister of the Interior. On questions 72 to 75: According to the reports before me, it is primarily against unknown perpetrators because of § 108 para. 1 StGB also determines the suspicion against a known accuser, against which the StA Wien for § 118a Abs. 1 Z 1 StGB determines the subject-matter of the prosecutor's examination. I cannot give any information on whether and, where appropriate, in what relation to the EIA. On the question 76: According to current state of knowledge: No, no, no, On questions 77 and 78: I cannot give any information on these questions after the current investigation, especially since it is not my task to comment on speculation. In any case, the prosecutor's office will follow all the apparent grounds of suspicion. On questions 79, 80 and 81: The advertisement was reimbursed by the Memorial Protection Initiative, Association for the Protection of Threatened Cultural Goods. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In November 2017, the WKSTA was entrusted with the investigations in this causa from the beginning. On questions 82 and 83: The Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption (Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption) was requested from 3rd parties. In November 2017, I asked to take over and carry out the necessary investigations, whose objective I cannot further specify here in order to avoid compromising the purpose of the investigation procedure. On question 84: The request for assistance from the BAK to the municipality of Vienna was received in autumn 2018. The processing took some time there, therefore during a meeting on 18 February. In June 2019, the acceleration of official assistance was agreed by means of voluntary reflection. ==References====External links== July 2019 completed. Question 85: Since the advertisement was accompanied by a press conference of the scoreboard or the display representative, it was assumed that all the public prosecutor's orders aimed at the collection of documents and data contained in the sphere of the accused would have only a small chance of success, and therefore a dubious eclipse would have already occurred due to the actions of the scorer. On questions 86, 87 and 98: The investigations are directed against six natural persons, an unknown number of unknown perpetrators and an interested association, all of which are held as accused. As far as any political support is sought, it is excluded from a public prosecutor's assessment. On questions 88 to 90: I ask for understanding that I cannot provide any information on these issues on the grounds of the protection of personal data. On questions 91 and 92: The S2arch – social and sustainable architecture association is responsible for money flows. Its context with concrete projects is to be reviewed. On question 92: No, because of the fact that there are currently no viable suspects in the investigation procedure. On question 93: Section 302 para. 1, 304 para. 1 and 2 StGB, § 307 para. 1 and 2 StGB. In question 94: Section 302 para. 1, 304 para. 1 and 2 StGB. On question 95: The names of the donors are known for a bank information but not yet assigned to final investors. The following questions cannot therefore be answered in a serious way. On question 96: No, no, no, In question 97: In the sense of taking advantage of the inflow into the sphere of the above-mentioned association: Yes. A link between the professional activity of power. Christoph Chorherr and the benefits granted are the subject of the open investigation procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22143	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. We are now entering the debate. I'll do it. Please note that every speaker, each speaker, has a maximum of 10 minutes of speaking time. The overall speaking time of each club according to the Rules of Procedure shall be 25 minutes. Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22173	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Estimated Minister of Justice! If we look at what has been happening since the internal ÖVP coup and the explosion of the last government by Sebastian Kurz in this country, then you will actually be left with mere astonishment. It has started with one of the most dirty elections of the Second Republic in which the ÖVP has calculated and with full intention has broken the cost of the election and thus a law of that Republic. And it went on: Let us remember the patched scandal of hearing, which the FPÖ then made public, where ex-Vice Chancellor Strache found and believed an old stand line in the plenum, that would be the great noise attack of the Illuminati – actually an interesting foreplay when one recalls what has come. In the course of the course it continued: There was a night-and-nebulous breach of the Constitutional Protection. It has continued with the de facto announcement of the social partners and, in order to continue the reduction of workers' rights – we have already discussed it today – to conduct current investigations in the field of post-achievements in the areas of state – the reconstruction of social security, including the establishment of turquoise-blue decision-making sovereignty against the majority of insured persons. One could, or must, talk about an end to self-management in this area. There were then turquoise festivals, family festivals at the expense of taxpayers. Yes, and finally – in order to return to the noise attack – the actual noise attack, namely, Ibiza, took place. This was actually done a long time ago, because it was actually played out before the 2017 election, and the trap itself was long laid down and accordingly prepared – by people who understood their crafts, by backmen who on the one hand had the necessary capital and, on the other hand, planned this secret operation for months, and by backmen who also had an mistaken interest in being able to extortion and control the FPÖ in the next step. Today we still don't know who it was, only one thing we know very well: It was certainly not left-wing activists or, as they are often called by the right-wings, the good people of this country – no, because they had already played this video outside before the election, so that it could not come to this social reduction programme that we have seen in the last two years. But I would like to join Sebastian in this government for the last two years. It then comes to an e-mail affair, quite clear, papers would probably prove that Sebastian Kurz and the ÖVP from Ibiza video were not as surprised as they did. These documents have not yet seen anyone, no one, but it has been claimed that they are falsified, quite clear. It has not seen anyone, but they would prove that there have been insights before and that there has already been knowledge of how Ibiza came to be. But: No one has seen them, and they have been declared false, and have been called fakes. It is quite clear, however, that there has been something else that is not a fake, that we all could see each other, namely the video on which a high ÖVP employee of the Chancellor's office can be seen, as he takes with him under the wrong name, clearly nervous and without paying the bill, five hard drives, several times, and then the brims with him. We have seen all of this with our own eyes. The ÖVP explained a few days later that this is a normal process, as it appears to be common everywhere in Austria. [[Abg. Steinacker: That is what the Federal Chancellor confirmed, Mrs Colleague!]] – So really, is such a thing now common in Austria? Is that the good tone in Austria? So if I'd like to have the Federal Chancellor's Office's fixed-print plates scrapped, then a very normal operation in the Federal Chancellery could also be to call and say: Yeah, Reisswolf, you know, we'd have some hard-press plates to scrape again, come by! Tuesday fits super, yes, sure, please take care of Sebastian Kurz! – All this has not happened, in no way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] According to my understanding, this is anything but a normal process, which we could see on this video. Yeah, and we're still not done. In the last two years, there has been a lot of progress: The donation scandals suddenly broke in like a flood over the Austrian, over the new People's Party. In short, in the 2017 election campaign, we have this on video and you are very happy to see it – that he would obviously have something to hide, he would not make donations transparent. Yes, and today? Today, we know that large donors have collected millions of amounts past the Court of Auditors. And that goes on even further: In short, it also states that it is mostly small and small donors who would finance and support the ÖVP, the new People's Party. Yes, and today we know that the donations have come to 98 percent of billionaires and millionaires. So maybe to sum this up. Outside the country one would say that the ÖVP leadership level is simply lying. We in this House can only say that the untruth has clearly come to light here. And what causes us to believe, as I would like to join you, Minister of Justice, that this two-year-old activity is now close to us and that the data, which is a re-planned breach of a law, namely the one in which the electoral cost limitation is fixed, would now prove to be falsified by the ÖVP? You have not entered into your statements in any way on the accounting and on whether the accounting data, as has been announced several times, has been collected, has been changed and has been replanted. This is not determined by the public prosecutor's office. That is to say, to all the allegations that stand here in the room, that it is false data and not the original book evidence of the Austrian People's Party, you have not expressed yourself in the answer to the urgent request. In other words, it could be just as good that the People's Party does exactly what it has already done in the 2017 election campaign, namely the planned and intentional break of Austrian laws, that is, to exceed the upper limit on the election costs. In the answer to the question, there has also been no word on the following question: Can you rule out that it may not have been a hacker attack, but it has been a moustache or a fake flag attack to suggest? [[Abg. Haubner: You didn't take care of that!]] Can it be ruled out that it has not only been a data flow, it has been a data leak, as you have said, but it is a muzzle or a fake flag attack? I would ask you to answer this very concretely once again, because, in my view, the answer to this urgent question has left very many questions open. [[Abg. Wöger: It was brilliant!]] Much is not yet clear, but one thing is clear: Millionaires are not meek, they don't go here and say, Jö, look, Sebastian and Gernot look so bad, I am now donating a few million! [[Abg. Wöginger: There already the first part of the sentence did not vote! They don't look bad!]] No, millionaires who invest want to see something for their investment. First, they want to see their investment in the form of laws and then implemented in the form of Euros – and that is exactly what is happening in this Republic. I want to help change something, and would really like people in this country to end this purchased policy once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22254	The next item is the speech by Mr Karl Nehammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22290	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What I can do at the moment, after I have heard colleague Pilz and colleague Vogtenhuber-Holzinger, is that they are concerned about fairness in this urgent matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What I would like to talk about is facts. Let's talk about facts! One fact is that the People's Party has been massively attacked, from the outside, as has just been noted. A fact is that data theft has taken place to a large extent. – And then, at the same time, the assumptions: Well, why didn't that notice? How could so many data be stolen? To be said, and this has also been done, that the data theft, this 1.3 terabyte or more, has been done in speculated files, i.e., the files have been reduced. The thieves have worked with an electronic central key and cleared the data cabinets. Yes, I understand that this is difficult for some people here in the House to understand. Years ago, the dramatic picture would have been when it broke into a party headquarters: open doors, smashed discs, torn steel cabinets, folders that were torn out and their contents removed. Today, this is about a hacker attack. The really bad thing is that this is very perfide and with high criminal energy. Microsoft has commissioned a study that proves that hacker attacks are only discovered after three months. – So much about the questions that stand here in the room, why it took so long. I can tell you what this means for a democratic party in the election campaign, I can tell you what it means to have massive access to the resources of a party that is in the election campaign, in order to provide information, because we are fully cooperating with the BAT, with the Federal Criminal Office, with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Do you know what it means if you can no longer use your infrastructure in an intensive election campaign, because it has just been partially attacked? – This is a real threat to an election campaign in a democracy. The whole cynicism, the rooster and the hems that go out of here from the other parties are a reminder to you: You can't currently rule out the fact that you've been hacked yourself. Now ask your administrator if he can rule out that you are hacked, and he will not be able to give you a guarantee because there is no security system in the world that protects against it! The effects are dramatic for an election campaign, they are also cost-effectively dramatic, all in this situation to the detriment of the People's Party. And yes, it is important for us to explain the question of the hinterman's interest in burdening us in the intensive election phase. Today – and this is the important point for me – has been seen here: The house of the suspects, the accusations and the attack by a Peter Pilz has collapsed. There's nothing substance there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A smile also does not help if one sees that the allegations will not be made because the authorities determine. Mr Vice-Kanzler, a great thanks to you, a great thank you also to the Ministry of the Interior, the BAT, the Federal Criminal Office, also to my employees, who are doing everything in this challenging time, so that we can get to the scene of the perpetrators who have moved the data to France! We'll see what the traces will show, because there's traces, and that's the only good news about the whole thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But Peter Pilz has a system in what he does; we have researched once in the club. What's known about him is: There were 64 ads of a Peter Pilz at the Procuratorate. Five of them have led to a result. The others have burdened people, suspected of being patched and pushed into a shaky light. A consequence of this hacker attack and the reaction of the JETZT list is, as with all these things, that the political climate in this country is poisoned, that one only sows more suspicions everywhere, conspiracy theories, as is currently being experienced here, scatters and no longer talks about topics or content. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] But I can assure the perpetrators who act in the background, abroad or here in the country, and also the list NOW with fungus of one: We're not broken, we're not insecure. The officials who run the members of the movement, because it is a lot for this country, because in the election campaign we are not hindered by such criminal activities as the standing of data to a large extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Quite honestly, we have a chance to say together here in the House, we are now in the final election campaign and we are trying to get special these last days before the election, not to be deeply involved in the election campaign, that we are fairly dealing with each other, that we are hard in the matter - I hear a lot of hammers from the SPÖ again. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That would be for you! That's exactly what the right one is talking about!]] I would rather have expected them from Peter Pilz, for we know from the past that he himself sets rather low moral demands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: No one's suing like you!]] But the really good news is: ==References== September, the voters and voters have the chance to set a sign exactly against the reactions of Mr Jarolim von der SPÖ, the Peter Pilz, even the JETZT list. That was not mentioned yet by me: You from the JETZT list even want to pass a law that prohibits a future Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz without even waiting for a choice. That's the democratic concept of the JETZT list! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to put a sign on the other hand, you have a chance now. If you want to continue the path of change, then on 29. September a voice for the People's Party with Sebastian Kurz at the top!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22429	Mr Leichtfried has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22450	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate listeners and listeners! Mr Nehammer, I have now listened to you very interested, but I think I am now going to see how many people in Austria: I don't believe any more of you, and they don't believe anything anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: A very objective contribution!]] Because the impression you have is: Something is lazy in this ÖVP. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Something is lazy in this ÖVP. There have been so many things happening in the last few months, you almost lose the overview. But I noticed two things. [[Abg. Never mind leaving the hall.]] - Now he's going, Nehammer! – I noticed two things: this story with the hard drive shredders: Please, who comes up with the idea of commissioning the social media chief of the ÖVP: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Look, don't let this go wrong, go to Reisswolf, but don't tell them what you're called?- Oh, my God! And then count nothing! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] But give your right number that you'll catch you! – Who comes up with such ideas, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or that suddenly the partyobmann – I think he was no longer German chancellors at the time, I can't really assign it to that time – that the party chairman of the ÖVP makes an e-mail with the Secretary-General a press conference that has never been read by anyone who doesn't know and who doesn't know what's inside, there has never been in that country. And there's already the idea that something else has become. [[Abg. Wooker leaves the hall.]] The clubman's going too. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, you can't listen to that, Mr. Colleague!]] You don't want to listen to that, I think, because the truth hurts. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It really hurts. I have to say that it was the old ÖVP also a bit laborious, but at least they had some sort of resistance. But what happened now? – Passing through, you all, as a representative of the Austrian People’s Party, have admitted that this former old, yet decent ÖVP has become a party that can be attributed to deliberate deception, dependence on millionaires and responsibilitylessness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Apparently it was so that even some of your circles did not fit. And that's my suspicion why this data came to the public, ladies and gentlemen, Someone of you has all become too much what you're doing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do I speak of deliberate deception? – When you say a few days before the 2017 National Council: I promise you, we will not exceed the election cost limit! and then it turns out that they have been twice exceeded that instead of spending 7 million euros, this is a party of intentional deception. If we say that we are putting our new government of absolute harmony, as you have always said, on five to ten years, and at the same time already months before the next National Council election – and now it is there, the National Council election – it is also deliberate deception. You can really thank your ex-partner for doing something like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if you're faithfully insured: But this time we will certainly not exceed the upper limit on the election cost! and it turns out that there are 2 million euros too much again, yes, ladies and gentlemen, then this is also deliberate deception. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: How do you know that?]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] This makes up your character at this time, and you can't be surprised that you don't believe anything anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: 20 percent thank you!]] It is also the party of dependence on the millionaires and billionaires, yes, excuse. [[Call at the SPÖ: And billionaires!]] That's where I ask a question: Please, how do you manage if the millions are literally pushed back, that you still have 20 million debts? You have to bring that together once. This is a great act, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] I'm telling you how to do this, and now I don't want to talk about hairstyles again, because that's really too ridiculous. You can do this if you throw the money out to the window and say you save in the system. That is what you do, and that makes you equally unbelievable, valued Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Mr Lugar has said that the ÖVP is he who has been squandered. Here you go. Now I could say that the debt of the ÖVP is quelling me. Could I say, but I do not, because at the same time this dependence is given on the donors. This combination can give the impression that some people who donate can take more influence on politics than those who go to vote. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is a poison for democracy! That is why we have also decided that such donations will no longer be possible in the future. That was an emergency, justified emergency, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] It is the party of responsibility. If a person blows up a government twice in a row within 17 months, if someone consciously loses his own party friends and his coalition partner, if someone is too good for it, even though he is elected to take up the work in Parliament, that is not responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, there is such a saying: Whoever says the untruth, you don't believe him. - That's true. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer:... the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you still depend on billionaires and you are not responsible, you do not choose them. You'll soon see that's the way it is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22668	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22689	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My friends of the ÖVP, I know you certainly imagined this quite differently when in May 2019 you drove the government into the air without any need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now September 2019 is here, and many things have happened and many things have become known. For example, it has become known that ÖVP exceeded the 2017 election costs with intent. You can read this in a weekly newspaper. It is also known that the ÖVP has already planned to conduct new elections since December 2018. They have not only ordered the posters, there is also an article in the “world” that reported months ago that ÖVP wanted to vote in autumn. This has also become known in the meantime. Then came this Ibiza video, and you had nothing better to do than two days later to send an employee of Mr. Federal Chancellor to an external company to make something worse there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] He's shredded a hard drive there under the wrong name – three times! – and then took this whole rag with you, this sand, with a loud panic, that you might be able to put the grains back together. That – please, don't be angry with me! – is a problem you have. Nobody else has. You have this problem, and you have not been able to explain to this day – at least not conclusively – why it has been scrambled and why the person concerned has done the first thing under the wrong name, has not paid for it, and thirdly has taken the grains. Why did this happen? – Make an explanation for this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, we don't know what was stored on these hard drives to this day. We will probably never find out, because that was the meaning of this whole action. Then it went on: At once there is a press conference by former Chancellors Kurz and the Secretary-General who is now no longer in the Chamber, in which they stand and declare that the emails are all fake. – No one in this Republic knew at that time what emails they were even talking about. They immediately make a huge press conference and talk about the fact that 1,500 emails have been faked in a relatively short time period; Emails from Blümel and Kurz, in which it is said that a Ibiza video – without Ibiza: a video – is the talk of a video on which Strache and Gudenus can be seen. This is contained in these e-mails; obviously, someone in this Republic has faked these e-mails within three weeks. – That too was with the ÖVP. Now, just before the National Council election, you come with the neighbor and explain that it was a hacker attack, 1,4 terabytes have been sucked off. Interesting is the following: You did not go to the police, you did not go to the prosecutor's office, but you did a press conference and hoped that the prosecutor's office would become active on its own. This is also a conspicuousness of you. Then you go here and say, Yes, the data has been sucked and the data has been falsified. – I don’t know what you’ve expected of us to have this story. What's that supposed to be? How do you understand that, a hacker now sucks off data? – Let’s assume it’s been one; by the way, we don’t know that either. Mr. Nehammer comes here today and says: We know! – No, we only know that data has been sucked off, where, from whom, we don’t know yet! Obviously, only Mr. Nehammer knows that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] So there are data being pumped off, manipulated, and then re-entraced into this system of the ÖVP? How is that supposed to work? You know, that's about as if a burglar steals a picture, then overpaints it, then breaks back in and hangs it back to the wall. It's totally implausible what you're talking about here! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's really the problem. That's why I'm telling you: What you're doing here is a distraction maneuver, a distraction maneuver all over the line. They wanted to put FPÖ in trouble by letting the government sit by preferring the elections. But this tactic, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, has not gone up. You've got the troubles now. They're in the biggest trouble.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22774	Mr Scherak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22796	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for the reply you have made, as much as possible. It was clear from the very beginning that you should not have said any more. This could actually have been clear from the JETZT list that nothing should be said about a ongoing investigation procedure here. If it is true that there was a hacker attack – I assume that there was really a hacker attack; this concerns justice and will clarify whether it was so – then there are three things I would very much like to give to the ÖVP. First: You have to work very hard on the security arrangements of your IT system. You're clear. The second thing I think is very important is: It was already in many areas also the ÖVP, which in the last one and a half years always, when it came to the question of cybersecurity, did not give rise to fame. We remember: I asked in committee, and in plenary too, we asked Mr Blümel who is responsible for implementing the European Commission's action plan against disinformation and against election manipulation. The statement at that time was that there is a person in charge of government spokesperson Launsky-Tifenthal. Maybe remember. Now – if there has really been a hacker attack – how important it is to take such action plans seriously. There are obviously people who are interested in manipulating elections. The third thing: They have always been the leaders in the implementation of the Federal Trojan. That too is a huge problem. The Constitutional Court is concerned with this – let's see how it will decide! But we know that the Federal Trojan only works when vulnerabilities are deliberately left open. Just such a situation you now experience that people who are criminal are obviously interested in extracting data from you. I think it would be important – especially in the situation, if there was really a hacker attack – for the ÖVP to think about how to deal with such things in the future and whether one might make more for cybersecurity in the future and not always try to hide away in this context and not talk big about it. What is it about now? We don't know if there was this hacker attack, who's behind it and so on and so on. It's going to be clear to the court. Mr Nehammer said earlier that he would like to bring facts and honesty into the debate. There has been a lot of information on the bookkeeping of the EIAs to the public – whether these data is right or not – in the whole debate, it is about how we deal with the party finances in Austria. There is a party here in the House, which has repeatedly been committed to making positive changes in this area, and we are NEOS. It's about being transparent 365 days a year. For example, if you were transparent, it would be totally unproblematic if things came out. That would simply serve the whole thing. I remember it was your party observer Sebastian Kurz – and that is why I would like to come back to the facts – who said that ÖVP has always been committed to greater transparency. – I find that unreasonable, for that is not true! Who voted against when we submitted NEOS with the application for full Court of Auditors' right of access to the Court of Auditors? – The People's Party of Sebastian Kurz. Who voted against when we filed the application for the introduction of a criminal record of illegal party financing? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. Who voted against when we submitted the request that the sub-organisations should be included in the report of the parties' accounts? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. Who voted against when we said that all revenue and expenditure of the individual district and local authorities should be disclosed? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. Who voted against when we applied for the reduction of the upper limit on the campaign? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. Who voted against when we asked for higher fines or even fines when the Court of Auditors failed to present the report? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. And who voted against when we submitted an application for monitoring of revenue and expenditure during an election campaign? – Sebastian Kurz’s ÖVP. So when it comes to honesty and facts, one thing is clear: A party has always been opposed to transparency, and that is Sebastian Kurz's ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But it must be said honestly that other parties, too, have been against it: The FPÖ also does not have transparency, even the SPÖ does not do so with transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Mr. Nehammer wanted to discuss content, wanted us to talk about other things now. I would also like to discuss this. Yes, let's talk about content! Let's see how we manage to give the people in Austria the information they actually need! What we do in this election campaign is that we spend a lot of tax money – some much more than others – and that is the money that taxpayers have made available to us. I do not understand how it can be that not every party discloses 365 days a year what it does with the money of taxpayers. [[Abg. Kickl: You are the only ones who don't deal with the normal...!]] If you had done that, that would be all unproblematic. Then it would have been outside for a long time, which expenditure there has been – there are a few people there, but you don't have to go into that. If you are open and honest and transparent, there is no problem at all with who has spent what. I would like everyone to take an example of this, 365 days a year. I think we owe it to people, we owe account to people in this regard. Finally, let us all be transparent together! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It needs, I have already said, full powers of understanding and auditing for the Court of Auditors. I found the statements of the Social Democracy, in part also the FPÖ, about the Court of Auditors and about how the Court of Auditors was discredited by these statements inconceivably dangerous. The Court of Auditors is, after all, an auxiliary body of Parliament. It was said: The Court of Auditors cannot be allowed to look in, that would be cruel, that cannot be done! – This is an attack on the institutions in this country. Such an attack is not to be expected in this way in particular by social democracy, so I did not understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I think it is quite normal for the Court of Auditors to be able to look into the party finances, because only then is it guaranteed that it does not come to the entire circumvention structures that still exist. If, for example, an association, which is only close to SPÖ in this case, organizes events – because these clubs are still allowed – in which, of course, election campaign is carried out in the context of an election campaign, then these costs are probably not included in the election bill at the end. It needs a lower electoral cost limit. There is no reason at all to spend up to 7 million euros in an election campaign. It's even worse in the federal states. In the country of Lower Austria you can spend up to 7 million euros. These are all things that are not comprehensible. We need severe sanctions in the event of an overrun of the election cost limit. What I still didn't understand now is that, after the last time the ÖVP had seen the eye and made a very conscious purchase that it had exceeded this upper-wing cost limit, Nehammer turned up after the election, and said he was sorry. So if other people in Austria do something illegal, there are usually proper sanctions or they have to repay a lot of money. - Let's see what's going to happen at the end. What's the worst thing: If these other people then become a repeater – now, on the basis of this data that has come out, it is assumed that the ÖVP will again not deliberately comply with the electoral cost limit – then there will be even harder penalties. I think it takes serious punishment. It would be important to simply put on the table in this respect, which is actually planned. If you were transparent 365 days a year, it would be completely unproblematic. I think the citizens in Austria deserve better. They have earned decent policy, and I think we should all be serious about this and consider how we can do this, how we can be transparent all 365 days a year.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22854	Mr Zinggl has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e22876	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! First of all, a little memory: At the last meeting of the National Council before the summer, we unanimously invited the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism to carry out a special examination and a detailed report on this special examination until the 15. To lay on August. It was about the family festival of the ÖVP in Schönbrunn, you certainly remember everyone. This family festival was an election event at government costs of at least 230 000 euros. We just wanted to know: What exactly is behind that? [[Abg. Jarolim: That was a Schönbrunn festival!]] Who's responsible? What did that really cost? Who paid that? ==References====External links== August delivered, however, only one DIN A4 page, a kind of summary, and essentially referred to the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism. And what about the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism? – That completely ignored this task. To this end, we need to know that the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism has been enforced by black officials for some time, or even longer – at that time called the Ministry of Agriculture – and everything that is not black is turquoise. It is therefore possible to calculate why the Ministry has ignored this mandate of Parliament. Mrs Patek, you're not here now, but you're still here. What about you? What's going on? Has You get this order on the table? Did you just throw it in the trash? Did you give the order to any section chief who did this for you? – Perhaps you have also forwarded this order to your officials and they have knocked on the thighs and asked: How, special examination on behalf of Parliament? Brouhaha! So they just threw the order away. Mr President Sobotka, I also ask you: Do you know that Parliament's mission has not been fulfilled? Do you know why the order has not been fulfilled? And what are you doing about it? In any case, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with JETZT and Mr Jarolim and Mr Zadić.]] Now on another topic: In recent years, as you all know, I have been very concerned about freeing Vienna from the overcrowding of the real estate industry and protecting it from the destruction of real estate speculators. I have pointed out in many speeches in the National Council and also in the public how money determines policy and destroys the environment and our building culture. In principle: Why, for example, does a construction company such as Porr donate to the ÖVP in a large size, to decision-makers? –Maybe because she doesn’t want to have the price of cement products. We know that cement production is a very massive climate damage and that the production of cement would, of course, become more expensive when it comes to CO2-loaded material. Now you can say: Okay, but what about Heidi Horten? What's the matter with the fact that she donated? – There may also be a reason for them that is not yet obvious, but I know from the cultural area very well that Heidi Horten has a private museum. Let us look, after the opening, at whether a subsidy proposal is not received, which is then agreed! Then it's been a good investment again. In principle, you can say: Not the sponsors, the donors, the lenders are those who act irresponsibly – simply – but irresponsibly the decision-makers who do not choose for the good of the population – tag 12-hour-day – who do not focus on the warnings of the climate defenders – keyword climate disaster – and who do not act to protect the common cultural heritage – world heritage. We know that the decision-makers are always in a kind of debt position. Gifts just long for a thank you, no matter if these are direct donations or donations to a nearby club, somewhere in South Africa. It actually says everything that the construction lions and the real estate sharks donate to several fractions, and it says even more, when we know that because of these donations illegal land is done, because then we also know why they donate and what success it has had. [[Abg. Hafenecker: A lot to the NEOS!]] I have pointed this out very often in the public, and I have repeatedly referred to it internally with the Greens. You probably also know that I don't feel well that I was pushed out of the party not least because of that. I still remember very carefully a country conference, where I just got 3 minutes to dementate the false reports of President Maria Vassilakou and Christoph Chorherr, who had been referring for half an hour or more. Of course, I couldn't do that in the 3 minutes. [[Abg. Hauser: This is how democracy looks with the Greens!]] Karl Oellinger left the meeting at the time and Gabi Moser also refused these 3 minutes, Peter Pilz used it. I can tell you: The Greens are important and necessary in Parliament and it is very bad if they do not act in Parliament. The basis of the Greens was also always against this policy, which forced a high-rise against better knowledge, and the base has also voted against this high house, as you know. The clubman of the Vienna Greens, David Ellensohn, did not say the wrong thing: Millionaires buy politics. He also regretted the decision to act with Mr Tojner. However, as we know, this field dedication is stable to this day and he could at any time, the greens could make an appropriate request at any time and revise this area dedication. It's not too late. The decision of the base is still valid, but as long as illegal land ordinations are not corrected, the greens are not credible in my eyes, and this is very bad because, of course, I am still a greener in the deepest heart and would like to see it again. Thank you. [[Assured by Mr Pilz and Mr Rossmann.]] [[16:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23002	The motion for a resolution – even if the context is difficult to produce – is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23026	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Justice! High house! You feel a bit like in the wrong movie today. The planned second career after the parliament of my colleague Pilz – wherever he is now – as an IT expert, after 20 minutes of speaking time, I think, has ended again, because whatever has been said there was also a lot wrong with it. [[Abg. Belakovich: (in the direction of the section next to the Bureau) There!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Also!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Auch! That's right!]] I don't expect you to know yourself perfectly technically. As a Member of Parliament, we are also always active in a wide range of areas, and of course we cannot be firm everywhere. But if you get such a special meeting and bring in such a urgent request, I expect you to deal with matter, to deal with it technically and not to throw around here in Parliament with conspiracy theories that you may have caught up in social media. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] However, I would like to stress once again the following, because some talk so well about Sebastian Kurz or Karl Nehammer's statements about the seriousness of this situation: This attack, an attack on the People's Party, is not only a subject of the People's Party, but is a matter for all of us, because it is of course important to us as a representative and also as a guardian of democracy and valuable to them. [[Abg. Pilz: To democracy!]] [[Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: To democracy!]] We know such situations from the USA, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and it is terrifying that we are equally concerned that a candidate party is being damaged in an election debate, that it is discredited and that, in particular, voters are manipulated in their opinion-making. I can only appreciate this present-day spectacle so that it is a last attempt to generate attention as a list NOW, List Pilz, which has also been lost to some Members, perhaps also to give a life mark of itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me also address the facts to the unsavory statements that have been made here from this speaker's point of view. Yes, we as a People's Party have been hacked, and as you turn it and turn it, that has been confirmed by independent security experts from Austria. We've heard it today, too, that it was an external attack. That alone is already disturbing enough, but you can also see with what professionalism has been approached. The technical attack, the banishment, the unlawful possession of a system, even the creeping data clause that went there – that wasn't a script kiddie, that wasn't a beginner, no layman, that was professional, it was a professional or several professionals who were behind it. You can imagine that as in a house – Karl Nehammer, too, has tried to explain it – in which space for space has been systematically searched and then there has been an illegal search of space, a key has been taken to be able to get into blocked spaces and then to pack, bind, compress and bring out all the information collected, data, and so on in finely clean packages. This has also happened, and the data is known to have reached the French server via FTP. I don't know what Peter Pilz meant by gate and data transfer rates. There's something you've been trying to get together. If you have done a network test at home and only have 4 Mbit/s – yes, it can be so slow. In the corporate sector, in large institutions, the range is much higher, which is also a milkmaid bill. They ask how this can happen so unnoticedly in the daily operation. – Talk to your IT responsible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] In daily operation there is a high data transfer, as updates are made, there is work done, there are backups made or something like that, and because of professionalism these data packages have been carried out gradually, sluggishly. I can say that this attack attempt, to which many seem to have joined many today, will bring nothing like many other attempts against Sebastian Kurz, against the People's Party. I'm telling you, too. If you're out with the people when you talk to the people, you'll find out: You're tired of these dirty bubbling campaigns, they're tired of these attack attempts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They expect us to return to the matter, to talk about the ideas that are also bringing our country forward. – And I hope so.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23146	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. [[Abg. Jarolim: (on the way to the speaker's desk towards the President) I've already seen the testimonies today, and the qualifications are available!]] - All right, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23182	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have spoken here of a special treatment in which the procedure cannot be accessible. – I see this a little differently because the representations, which actually happened and whether this is credible or not, speak a very clear language from my point of view. Col. Pilz has done this today, but he is not the only one with God. There are articles from all sides and, above all, there are always very strange appearances of ÖVP colleagues, for example, the appearance of colleague Nehammer, in which suddenly – this has been addressed today – an e-mail that no one knows who is supposed to be transported out. So it becomes clear that the whole thing is somehow a single fake, that something should be speeded up, that something will somehow be hidden before the election. I believe that it would actually be a kind of emergency defence to which justice could appeal in this context: to say, in fact, it seems so funny – I think, the majority of us, probably also the colleagues of the ÖVP, it is strange – that there is still something to reveal in this regard the secrets. One thing I really don't understand: Mr Kurz has explained to us that not only has data been collected, but it has even entered the computer and there the data have been changed, and after the data has changed, they have been sucked off. Ladies and gentlemen! Who really should believe this nonsense that Mr. Kurz tells us all the time? That's why you have to think: What's the matter? What's there? What's going on? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] I can already imagine that there is a lot inside, which should be hidden. If you look at how the procedure itself is going, this is the next thing you think about: That's really inconceivable! It can't be normal either, if a leader of the Pro Patria, that's the ÖVP troupe from Lower Austria, sitting in the investigation team, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pilz]] Who put such a person in if that's a normal investigation? But this is not the only strange behavior of the past. There are also, unfortunately, some points in the judicial system which are very strange, for example, the media selection procedure, which is this almost mud agency of the ÖVP, where funds have been washed. In this ÖVP procedure, there is an expert, and this expert, funnyly, is the husband of an ÖVP collector sitting here in the National Council, and has gone to school with Axel Melchior, who has been the Federal Managing Director. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no such thing as that! Why should anyone else trust that justice and, above all, the Ministry of the Interior are properly involved in this? For this reason, it is necessary to show the truth that the whole thing is a huge chuzpe even before the choice is made. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I understand that there are a lot of things to get rid of. If you look at the Vita of Mr. Kurz, you see the word planning again and again. So long before that, three years before that, it is planned how to take over the ÖVP, so charming that Mr Mitterlehner is really done in front of the camera. Logically, this planning then goes on. In February we discussed why in February advertising areas for autumn, so for now, have been purchased by ÖVP in Carinthia. Now we also know: There has been a plan for this election campaign for a long time. And then more or less suddenly comes this initial inflammation, that is, the video, that's why. After the video has arrived, the video is shredded. Ladies and gentlemen, you can have this basic suspicion that you yourself are behind this video – and I believe that what they've filmed there is a huge sourry and that the filmed people are the last-class ones – that you've produced the video yourself – and that two years ago! – not so easily wipe away from the table. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I would assume that there are certain links; and you have to explain them, you have to reveal them. That is why I also believe that Dr. Karl Kohlbacher is right. This now refers to a video on YouTube that we can all see. The renowned and highly respected former campaign leader of the ÖVP says that the ÖVP has lost its values, it has been “to a short election” and speaks of “approach to right populism”. We are not far from the Dolphin State, says your Styrian campaign leader Dr. Kohlbacher, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner:... quote! What would they say?]] And he then asks: Where's that going? In short, he primarily works for himself in the pursuit of power; he allows right-wing populist thought. Then he closes – and I think many of us come from the heart –: I'm not going to choose anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23260	Mr Lugar is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23282	I think the debate is going in the wrong direction today. It's not about whether this was a hacker attack, whether it was an insider, whether it was a disappointing ÖVPler, whether it was perhaps a rosarot elephant who sucked off this data – it's about the data itself. Of course, the justice has to explain who did this – no question! – but we here in the House should not worry about it, because we have already heard today that we will not hear anything, but we must take care of what these data tell us. These data clearly tell us that Sebastian Kurz is standing down and says: Okay, I'm sorry, last time I spent a lot more money than I allowed. That's illegal, too, that's against the law, I never do it again! – At the same time, he refreshes his accounting to spend 2 million euros more. So he means when he says they never do that again, not that they really don't do it again, he means he won't get caught this time. – And that’s exactly the point we should talk about, what these data are telling us about. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] These data tell us that Sebastian Kurz doesn't always mean quite honestly when he says something. Let's look back into the past! At times when Mitterlehner was Obmann and Sebastian sawed short at his chair – all of this can be read in the book of Mitterlehner – he moved through the country and collected donations behind the back of Mitterlehner, who of course did not enter the party funds. We should also talk about this in the book of Mitterlehner. This could also be read by someone and, accordingly, sent a statement of the facts to the public prosecutor's office. Then let's look at what he did to us: He has promised us that this government will continue if there are certain consequences – and he has then broken that promise in the second. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's exactly what I'm talking about. I'm talking about Sebastian not doing what he says. If you look at Nehammer, you can see that this appears to be in the DNA of the ÖVP. Remember the poster campaign! At that time the poster was revealed and it was a saying on it that Herbert Kickler found. Nehammer didn't know that; and reflective, because it's in the DNA of the ÖVP, he said: There must have been a FPÖler with us in the printing company, took a photo and spyed it out! – Reflective, that’s how it works with the ÖVP. If you do something wrong, immediately a debtor has to come – and of course that does not mean ÖVP, that is clear anyway. That means you just turn around, just like in this current story: You're a culprit because you're illegally crossing the election costs, and then you turn to the victim. That is to say, one comes into the role of sacrifice, is very poor and is being oppressed by everyone from the outside, and Sebastian too is quite, very poor. Why do I look so closely at Sebastian Kurz's history? – In this election, it may happen that many ÖVP voters Sebastian Kurz, unfortunately, go on the glue, because he claims he wants to continue the successful path, he claims he wants to continue making freedom-based policies as he has made them so successful with us. In fact, he doesn't want that at all. What he wants is to rule, more power. Power and retention of power – of course, the special area of the ÖVP – is what interests him. He doesn't care who he is ruling with. And when it goes back to the other direction when they turn left again, when all that we've done in the last two years goes down the stream again, Sebastian Kurz also doesn't care. That's why I can only say to everyone: Please support the FPÖ, because if you were satisfied with this government, then this is the only safe and guaranteed way that even after the next election no surprise will come out, but the successful way for Austria will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23352	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23373	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at home! I would first like to refer to a document published by the “Falter”. According to a document of July 2017, the ÖVP has calculated with an election budget of 13 million euros. A few weeks after the This document was published by the then election leader and Secretary General of ÖVP Köstinger, who claimed that expenditure would be kept within the scope of this document. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is she?]] Quote from an ATV interview: “We have clearly said that we are planning to comply with the election cost limit. This is 7 million euros, and we are very good at the plan." – That was a clear lie, except the document is wrong – and the ÖVP did not blame the “falter” in its injunction. [[Abg. Krainer: Whoever lies, you don't believe him!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] My question is: Why not? And: Why aren't you just transparent? I would also like to address a general problem: There are currently many procedures concerning the EIA: Scrutiny, data leak, Ibiza. As officials of the BMI find out, many of these officials do an impeccable job. But we also know that there is a party-political black network in the Ministry of the Interior. This was shown by the first surveys in the Committee of Inquiry, which unfortunately we could not continue because of the new elections. I do not want to vote in favour of my colleague Pilz, but there is a scepticism which is not only systemically appropriate, but also in the case of Ibiza. For me, this has been the case at the latest since the public prosecutor's office, the WKStA, the economic and corruption prosecutor's office, asked Soko Ibiza, which persons are inside and what their background is, and the Soko has not given the answer with reference to data protection reasons. Where do we live that the prosecutor's office as a master of the proceedings of the Ministry of the Interior does not know who finds out for her? We also have the problem of the partiality, as the Federal Minister has already done, being examined by the Ministry of the Interior itself. That finally leads to ad absurdum. There is therefore a legitimate scepticism that the investigations once again involve party policy. And that wasn't the first time. We have dedicated ourselves to the BAT of the Animal Protection Causa and the BAT-Causa in the Investigation Committee, and in both cases the result is that Party-political intervention has been undertaken in both Causen. In our opinion, there must therefore be an investigative committee of Ibiza. We cannot, as Mr Pilz likes to make people believe, carry out the investigations. As a subject of investigation, we can only consider the execution of the administration, so what the prosecutor's office, which is bound by directions, has done, why it has not done something or why it has done something and whether there has been instructions, and if so, by whom. We NEOS want to set up such a committee, and this does not depend on our position after the election, as we believe – in every position that we are in after the election – there must be investigations, clarifications, clarifications, how independent our justice operates, and how independent it is determined in cases where parties are at the focus of criminal proceedings. Nor do we need, as Sebastian Kurz believes falsely, his Sanctuary, because it is a minority right to set up an investigation committee; it only needs the qualified majority of 46 delegates to the National Council. Why we have this urgent question today, I do not quite understand it anyway, because it was quite clear that Minister Jabloner cannot tell us much here without endangering the investigations. However, we can also benefit Parliament from the legislation, Mr Pilz, and in this sense we have made proposals from the results of the BAT study committee to bring about positive changes in the future: on the one hand, a request for a separate investigation unit at WKStA, on the other hand, applications for increased objectivity in the selection of personnel. As NEOS, we do not want to scandalize, but on the basis of the findings of the Committee of Inquiry for Reforms for Independent and Effective Justice, and we hope for the approval and support of the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23424	Mrs Schwarz has been spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23446	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the screens! I take the liberty to take a word out of Peter Pilz's urgent request, and that's the word Affair, because I think that this is quite well suited to Peter Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I only have 4 minutes at my disposal, but I'm going to try to use these 4 minutes. Let me share it in the chapter Pilz and the Women! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] As a woman, I find it really last-class that Peter Pilz gives the public the impression that he would have been acquitted from the accusation of sexual harassment. - Please don't! One is due to the limitation and the other to the fact that the person concerned could not agree with himself and their environment on a criminal prosecution. The former staff member of the Green Parliamentary Club has also taken a similar course. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What happens in the first second? – Peter Pilz turns out to be remorseful, speaks of powerful old men who should learn something yet, but then quickly changes his strategy and says that this is just revenge from his former party, the Greens, and the employee only stirs up because she was not promoted. - So far, so bad. Peter Pilz does not have this role in sacrifice at all. [[Abg. Jarolim: Please do!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] On 14.8.2018, the “Small Newspaper”, fungus does not face accusations. [[Abg. Noll: Mr President, on the matter!]] This was the accusation that he had sexually harassed a member of the EPP within the framework of the Alpbach Forum. He says: “I am a man and will not apologize for it.” – Well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Let's stick to the topic of fungus and the women: Pilz wants to go back to the National Council. What's going on? – Supported by his male clubmates, Martha Bißmann flies out of the club because she is accused of looting club secrets. To this day, she argues and is a wild Member, so another mandate for Peter Pilz has to come. Peter Kolba withdraws from the National Council, Maria Stern abandons her mandate, Alfred Noll marches from the Federal Lists Mandate to the Lower Austrian Land List, the Federal Lists Mandate becomes free. [[Abg. Krainer: Is that the colorful hour now?]] [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] Star becomes party leader and literally says that her renunciation is a profound feminist act. - Excuse me? [[Abg. Krainer: This is the TOP 32!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Thema!]] For the first time in the history of the House, almost all women leave the plenary room at a fishing point; and believe me, ladies and gentlemen, I would do it again at any time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Thema!]] Then we come to the criminal proceedings. There's also a list. [[Abg. Noll: Mr President, you will not be fair to your office!]] Peter Pilz was able to withdraw very many procedures through his immunity – I think that this possibility will soon be no longer given – for example, a criminal charge against him by the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum because of evil remorse. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] Pilz had charged the officials with the official murder attempt. There is an advertisement for slander by the former Secretary-General of the Ministry of Justice, head of section Mag. Christian Pilnacek, and then there was a procedure that would actually have been initiated, but the day before his re-entry to the National Council, he withdrew from the process because of an acute gastritis, which then became a circulatory collapse – and the next day he became immune again. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Noll.]] I think that's the 29th. September this year will show what the Austrians think of this kind of politics, of this kind of affairs, and I do not think that we will ever again be in the situation that we have to leave at the Angelobung of Peter Pilz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23621	Mrs Duzdar has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23642	Mr President. Mr Jabloner! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schwarz, I just want to lose one sentence on this: I really don't know what your statements have had to do with the urgent question – for me nothing. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Deputies Schwarz and Großbauer: With affairs!]] It is clear to me that the ÖVP is very happy to see itself in the role of the victim and prefers to talk only about how poor it is the long day. You know, I'd like to talk about something else. I would like to talk about what you do not want to talk about, namely the truth that has come to light. You have to imagine, the ÖVP is like this: On the one hand, there is an accounting that is made for the people – that is the official variant, that is, the slander accounting – and on the other hand, there is the other accounting that only knows internal ÖVP movement and that no one should know anything about – in it the right numbers are documented. Interestingly, several million euros are suddenly shown in this bookkeeping. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What does that tell us? – This is proof that the Austrian People’s Party, as already in 2017, breaks laws consciously and deliberately and exceeds the costs of the election by millions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I remember very well: Electoral campaign 2017, two weeks before the election, there was an appearance of Secretary General Köstinger on TV, and there it was said: Of course we will comply with the election cost limit! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today we are also two weeks before the election and it would be time again! Mr Nehammer, I would be pleased if you came out of here and made a statement on whether the Austrian People's Party is once again planning to comply with the upper limit on the electoral costs. – I would be very interested. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] I'm very excited about your explanation. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there is another truth. The ÖVP tells us day after day, that it is the great economic party, that it can deal with finances, budgets, and everyone else would make debts and throw the money out the window. Of course, it is folly for the debt brake in the Constitution, because everyone has to tighten the belt tighter, but that is why there is no money for climate protection, we cannot afford to do that! – This is the so-called ÖVP story. The truth, though, when we look at this double accounting, is quite another. This is the one: The ÖVP cannot operate at all, cannot handle finances at all, cannot budget and throws the money out of the window. [[Congratulations and bravado with the SPÖ, as well as the congratulation of Members Holzinger-Vogtenhuber and Pilz.]] You have presented this to us to the satisfaction of the government – in the last place – with the inflated cabinets, the inflated general secretariats; and for the PR of Sebastian Kurz, there is no maximum cost limit at all. Everything you ask of the others obviously does not apply to you! I wonder, Why is that? Why do other standards not apply to the Austrian People's Party? You know why? - Because you're just removed! For me, you're an exorbitant party who believes she can spend as much money as she wants. The ÖVP direct statement: Money rules the world. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are not just leading the public and the people in Austria behind the light – no! – but in the most insidious way, you get an election advantage. You can't tell me that it doesn't make any difference whether a party spends 6 million euros in an election campaign or not! That's why you cheated and thus broke the laws. Sebastian Kurz preaches reliability and stability, moves throughout the country as a missionary, and tells us how great he is not. But the double morals of the whole story, the double morals of the ÖVP, we already know enough, namely the two faces of Sebastian Kurz: Preaching water and drinking wine.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23702	Mr Kickl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23723	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! With particular respect for your – we call him academic – access to the question and to the things that are the subject of this urgent request: This is not a legal theoretical lecture, and it is not a question of explaining to us how the legal situation in Austria is reflected in what specific legal matters. We all know what these regulations look like. We all know that the presumption of innocence is a great asset. We all know that the procedure will not be open to the public, I say, but we all know. We all know that details of any investigations cannot and should not be the subject of the plenary session. By the way, I would be very pleased if the justice and investigation equipment as a whole could claim to be so dense and closed that we do not need to discuss these things at all. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] But from my point of view, what it is about is quite different: It is also a form of awareness of the problem, Mr Minister of Justice, and I ask you: Don't you mind? Does that not bother you that here – and now I am far away from being an adorant of Peter Pilz; I think that we are separating much, much more than connecting us – are shown quite clearly and for any comprehensible problematic personnel connections, problematic links between investigation authorities and the subject of the investigation: the ÖVP? Don't you mind? I have to ask you that, and I would have expected you to know about it, apart from investigation details. You can't just go over to the agenda! Even if all officials in there behave highly correctly, you need to do everything you can to eliminate the residual risk in order to prevent any appearance of partiality in connection with such brilliant investigations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The optics is disastrous, however, if one finds that parts of the investigation authorities are exclusively those people who, according to the outcome of the investigation committee, are clearly assigned to ÖVP networks. That is, the ÖVP determines against itself. To remain in the division of the People's Party: That is enough to serve a minister, even if it has not been the case there. [[Abg. New builder: That's it!]] But since it is a matter of course and no one in the Republic is bothering it. And you too, Minister of Justice, are not losing a word. I can't deal with saying, I can't do anything, it's none of my business, because that's the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. If the Minister of the Interior had been here, he would have said that I can't do anything, that's none of my business, because that's the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Thus, we are constantly in the circle of all these things, maintaining a problematic structure in this country, which in fact should be broken down in the interests of political hygiene and the rule of law, which is so dear to your heart, as I have heard in Alpbach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Incredible!]] Now I'm just giving you an example of how to do it. When I was asked as a minister: How should this go with investigators in connection with the BAT affair?, I said to the prosecutor's office: The Procuratorate chooses these investigators, the minister does not determine and any form of link between guidance and information is cut off to the ministry, so that not the slightest appearance is that there is any influence in any way. Why is this path not being pursued in this case? – You could eliminate the residual risk to a great extent if you did so. That is a question of hygiene in the system, which is a question of the rule of law culture, which is a question of the credibility of the investigation authorities as a whole. I believe, Minister of Justice, that there are so many construction sites in the field of investigation agencies – I am thinking only of the public prosecutors' war against each other – that it is actually irresponsible to miss out on such simple measures that one could contribute to greater cleanliness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm not talking about other rudiments in connection with the Soko yet. We've heard of other inflections, too. An investigator has been subtracted due to a text in connection with H.-C. strate. But if I can believe media reports, there are other investigators, for example, an investigator who in the past, in connection with other activities of the criminal regime, was in fact a leading officer of one of the rulers, who is now being led as accused in the Ibiza trial, because he has been active there. So there's a former management officer finding out about someone he's been running in the past. – Yes, if that’s not a partiality, then I don’t know! According to my knowledge, the inner resort knows about this. Why don't anything happen, or why don't we learn that there are consequences? So honestly, the rule of law is not good in this area. Now something else, and this is an important note, Mr Lugar said: On the question that we are discussing today, we must address the question of the content: Is this real or false?, of the question: How did one get to these contents?, separate. There we are at the famous hacker, who can or may not be there, who worked on this or on that mission. These are two pairs of shoes! That's something completely different. Now just make a short parallel shift and think about Ibiza surveys. I heard today that this hacker affair is a big attack on the Republic. – Yes, what is it then when one organizes a noise attack on Ibiza on two political representatives of that Republic? What's that? – I believe that this too is a great attack on the Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we want to compare what happened there and what happened: In one case, the entire investigative device falls into Windseail and everything you have on the rearmen. At Ibiza, the rearmen were completely wreaked. It was said at Ibiza: It is only relevant to the content of the video, which is what Strache said there. Did this happen? We need to divert the investigations, this is in the focus of the investigations. On the other hand, the content of the ÖVP is completely wretched. It is a question of whether, so to speak, an attempt has been made for a repeated time in order to exceed this constituency cost limit. Why is this so important one time of content and the other time completely meated? – It is already noticed that there is a rupture in this republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It should be noted that the ÖVP has been working on an immunisation strategy since the beginning of this campaign. When Sebastian Kurz came back from Silicon Valley to mention just one example, he had nothing better to do than to explain in the media for a long and broad time what he learned about what could be false and manipulated: You can edit all photos, you can edit videos, you can fake emails, you can fake anything. – This is the part I would call immunisation strategy. As a result, one immunizes in advance if something of the things that are unpleasant to one is to fly away. You should not be surprised if, according to these statements of Sebastian Kurz, there is a distinct scepticism. Even after the swindlery, when they repeatedly said the untruth and then came out with the truth in pieces, or after the list of donations they presented only to the public, when the media had already been after them, you must not be surprised. All these are not contributions to increasing credibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I think of one thing: the famous e-mail affair. I remember when I looked at this Causa with the hacker. There were reports of an investigative medium in June 2019, that apparently in spring e-mails from ÖVP peak politicians may have been sucked off by a hacker, in any case by someone who was not authorised to do so. According to this investigative medium, they have been sucked off from the Agency for the Modernisation of Ukraine. This is an interesting club: This is where Mr Spindelegger plays a role, where there are links to a certain Mr Firtasch – so much to the real connections with some oligarchs. They're not told, they're real. From these e-mails one could derive a knowledge of the Ibiza video of ÖVP peak politicians at least at the time of the beginning of 2018. I think this is very interesting because, according to this medium, a corresponding request was made to the relevant EIA politicians on 14.6. That was on 14.6. And see what happens two or three days later: The usual forward movement: a forgery!, is carried to the public. A fake. That was then the famous opinion on the fake emails, which, by the way, does not indicate that they are falsified – I am just saying that. Therefore, my question to the next speaker of the ÖVP – that can only be answered by the ÖVP – is: Can you rule out that at any time parts of the ÖVP communication have run through a server or through the Agency's infrastructure to modernise Ukraine? Can you rule this out?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23814	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23830	You may have believed that this might be a safe communication channel. And if you can rule out this, ladies and gentlemen, please tell me who will withdraw from you or who will be in the head of the party if this proves your statement to be false!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23857	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23878	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! For me, this is a low point of this election campaign, as it is tried to bring justice into the electoral debate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ah-run at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Justice has the task of clarifying matters. The prosecutor's office must clarify a case-law if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence. However, it is not the duty of the judiciary to deliver ammunition in the election campaign. Respect and respect for the Third State Violence Justice should prevent responsible politicians from trying to change political small money in the election campaign. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] In my opinion, the election campaign is organized irresponsibility. I think that the situation, as we are now experiencing, is very good; it starts with expenditure and ends with the contents. I never understood why the deadline for the election campaign financing was set so late. Before that, you know for sure that a choice is coming, and you can quickly award orders and pay bills, and that will not be taken into account. I also do not understand why this circumvention structure with associations and by associations is still possible. At the end of the day, all that remains is: The Party Law is a law of parties for parties. It is a parade example of organized irresponsibility for me. The Court of Auditors still cannot look into the books. If the Court of Auditors could, it would be possible for it to examine the books of the parties. And if the accounting reports were not limited to formal criteria, then what we are discussing today could not be a problem at all; for each party would have to disclose its expenditure/incomes and each party would have to expect the Court of Auditors to check in their books whether that is really true. Then there is little temptation to obtain information about party finances. So all this wouldn't have happened, we would have a situation like it's long been called for by NEOS. At the time, I felt that this was a strong piece when the failure to grant audit competence to the Court of Auditors was justified by the fact that the Court of Auditors was not independent – that was the reason. Now it is said – and this is about the same – that 14 days until the National Council meeting would not have been enough to write the test competence into the law. – So whoever believes that must be saved! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is to say, it is urgently necessary that this test competence is finally granted. It is also urgently necessary for the election messages to be given a greater focus on what it is really all about. In fact, it would have to be about giving voters an idea of what they want to achieve for Austria, what they want to do for this state. – You experience the opposite. One sometimes has the impression that the money has been abolished in view of how money is spent with full hands. A few days ago, I read that another border storm threatens – one tries to startle fears to score in the election. This is irresponsibility organized for me. Austria didn't deserve that. Austria needs parties, every democracy needs parties, but parties will only fulfil their task if they are decent and serious in dealing with the task entrusted to them and with their power. It is therefore my urgent appeal to you that you finally implement in the new National Council, which has been repeatedly demanded: Start with party finances, make party finances transparent! This will be an important first step in ensuring that confidence in policy can be expected again and is also justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23959	Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e23980	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What do Angela Merkel, Emmanuel Macron, Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Hillary Clinton have in common? – They became like many other victims of cyberattacks. With continuing discussion here, the picture is becoming increasingly clear to me that Sebastian Kurz and his ÖVP actually do not fit into this list. This does not change the fact that hacked accounts, used data, are a problem that almost all Austrians now know and also concern. It's not an issue I just want to look over and look beyond. It is important that we have, demand and promote appropriate sensitivity. It is not a cavalier's crime when the Facebook account or the e-mail account is opened illegally. On the contrary! Especially because this data, as it always says, is the gold of the digital age, it is also the private matter and the privacy of each individual, and this private matter and privacy are to be protected. As Managing Director of SPÖ, I must note that we are also regularly and repeatedly trying to manipulate pages and access data. According to Facebook, in recent months the SPÖ pages have been the ones that were most affected and most intense by attacks. So yes, a coming federal government must put a clear emphasis on this area of cybersecurity, because of these attacks not a few are affected, but the broad majority of people, and it is the task of policy to ensure security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, however, it is also true that security means that you have to be able to leave, and I am already coming to the ÖVP. I have a number of exciting questions that ask – there are twelve. Unfortunately, Mr Köstinger is not here, she could answer the first question, namely: Is it true that the EIA spent 13 million euros in 2017 instead of 7 million euros, as these data show? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Is it also true that the ÖVP in 2019 – that could now be Karl Nehammer’s answer? Karl, maybe you'll make it clear today whether that's true – in the National Council election campaign this year, instead of spending €7 million on €9 million, or is it from one of the manipulated files or one of the hacked files you've invaded? Is the list of donations, dear Karl Nehammer, published comprehensively, and if so, was donated with intent so that it does not have to be reported to the Court of Auditors? Fourth: From whom, above all, did the initiative go to this bypass, from Heidi Horten or from Karl Nehammer? Fifth, you open a bottle Does the ÖVP carry one or more accounts? And to what do these different accounts serve to cover up or to bend the law? Sixteenths: Is it true that a single turquoise jubilant event in the Vienna City Hall cost 1 million euros, or is that manipulated? 7th: Is it true that the overcoloring and creation of the ÖVP logo cost 3.5 million euros and thus even exceed the exorbitant but white logo costs of the Austrian health insurance fund of 2.5 million euros by saying and writing 1 million euros? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Is it true that the ÖVP has debts like the proverbial staff officer? Is it true, then, that the money was credited by the Economic Federation? Is it true that you're in debt to the countries? Is it true that you got money or even loans from donors? Etymologically, this is perhaps an interesting consideration: In the word, debt is the term debt in it. To whom are you in debt now? Are you in the debt of the Economic Federation, in the debt of the national parties, in the debt of the banks or in the debt of the donors? It's clear: If so much talk about debt brakes in the Constitution, it needs a single real debt brake, and that's the debt brake in Lichtenfelsgasse. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] As the debate on the Court of Auditors has been held today, including by Mr Griss, I would like to make the following request from the party chairmen: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pillow.]] [[17:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24165	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Höbart is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24190	Mr President. High National Council! One thing I have to get rid of: I think it's funny when social democracy talks about associations here, about any donations. As the association of the Vienna workers' homes in Vienna grated, what kind of business is being done, so that the money ends up in the pockets of SPÖ Vienna at the end of the day, I think we could now discuss for hours. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are two worlds somewhere, on one side the world of Peter Pilz. We know that she's usually completely overlaid – Karl Nehammer reported about it – 64 ads, only five left a little hanging. In the preparation for my speech I even said: 99 percent of his remarks are hypotheses, and 1 percent is somewhat in line. We have already heard this very often in the examination committees in recent years: One and one is three. Many media went on glue to him, but I'm convinced on 29 May. The methods of Mr Pilz are said on September: Game over, the game is over. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this 1 per cent, dear ÖVP, one must of course have it broken down on the tongue. These are things that have been happening in the last months that have already been picking with you, and no one can take you out of the responsibility. It has already been said a lot about this today. The scoundrels: Please, where does it happen that one of Sebastian Kurz's closest employees has several hard drives from the Federal Chancellor's Office, stating incorrect personal data? I have to get this back to the point now, because of course it has created a diffuse image. The mail affair: Before or shortly after straining e-mails went out, one went to the public and said: They're fake. The third thing is the much quoted hacker affair, in which there may have been some double accounting data on the “falter” – for God’s sake, we are not at all close to this medium – and a short time later there is a hacker attack that has still not been demonstrated; I may just want to hold it. months of hacker attacks should be very likely to notice a well-positioned information technology. The quantifications with the donations: We have recently put an end to this whole party donation story – that was also good – but we always say: It all happened in accordance with the law. But if a lady from Carinthia spends several times just below the publication limit, then it simply leaves a mist, a shale light, and there we do not have something to do, but that is quite clearly on the side of the ÖVP. There is also a short version of Hacker’s “Dearly Said” by Mr. Nimmerwurscht from the “Kronen Zeitung”, the short medium by the way: “The hackers have apparently partially refined the ÖVP programme with the FPÖ party program.” If it helps to achieve such a success: We have often said that the only thing our former partner party can do is press the copy button and copy our programming. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] I've already done this, at least it's a funny, diffuse, strange light on the ÖVP, and it's up to you, it's up to you that there's a clear reconnaissance. Not only hold a press conference, but facts on the table! By the way, it can't take that long. I often say that Austria needs to continue this successful path. What Herbert Kicklvorhin also said: On the one hand, criminal energy is spoken of when hacker attacks start, on the other hand, it is probably not possible to do so, even on the part of the ÖVP, to clear the processes around the Ibiza video. This was a criminal case where substances were used, where certain question methods were used to extort statements. Why the government has then been sprung, this is still missing from our knowledge – clamping up, clamping – but we want to continue this path, this successful path. The Freedom Party was the reform engine in the government. FPÖ was also the reliable partner in the last government, and we have launched great reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] We must become so strong at the end of the day that you can't pass the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24258	Member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24280	Well, some of the reactions of ÖVP and FPÖ not only show me that it was quite reasonable that we made this urgent request today. [[Abg. Zarits: goodbye tour!]] All of them in the parent book: There is hardly any major corruption in this Republic, whose starting point was not a parliamentary investigation. This applies to Noricum, which applies to Buwog, which applies to Eurofighter, which applies to Hypo Alpe-Adria. If there had been no green control before and now the control by the JETZT list, there would have been none of these criminal proceedings. We are the control, and only we are the control, and the people in this republic know that too. Because we're the stem in the huge turquoise butt, that's why we're always so sorry, and that's why we're always being smeared, and that's why we're always talking about dirt. They're not dirt. This is parliamentary control, and the more it hurts the EIA and the more it hurts the Freedom Party, the better it is. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] This is a compliment, ladies and gentlemen of Ibiza, that you have made parliamentary control today. I thank you, on behalf of my group, and I appeal to the NEOS to learn control at last, as well as to the SPÖ. - That's the one point. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The second point, and this is also important to me: Checks apply to all. I have not spoken about the events in Vienna for a few days now, because I personally do not find it easy to comment as one of the co-founders of the Greens, but I will now say a few words about it. When I was setting up the greens 35 years ago, it was perfectly clear: This will be a party outside and within Parliament, which is not available at any price in the world. [[Abg. Neubauer: Heumarkt!]] In 2016, on the occasion of the project Heumarkt, I found in Vienna that this was no longer true in this form. That was a very difficult and very difficult experience for all of us. I remember a national conference of the Vienna Greens in 2016, in which I had a thick bag full of files, full proof of how funds from the Hypo Alpe-Adria from Istria to Vienna were to be taken to Vienna in order to finance the project Heumarkt through dubious speculators, from my then party friends a speech time of 2 minutes, not to present files and then the word was forbidden to me; and with me Gabi Moser and with me Wolfgang Zinggl and with me Karl Ollinger and many others. This was a conclusion for me, because at the time my Greens in Vienna decided for the investor between a dubious speculator named Michael Tojner and the functioning control in the Austrian National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I publicly explained that at the time. Wolfgang Zinggl has made a press conference after another, and Wolfgang Zinggl has not been listed on the Wiener Landeslist anymore. Today, the Minister of Justice has confirmed one, and that was one of the most important answers to this parliamentary question. Answer to Question 37: Yes, the suspicion of Christoph Chorherr because of §§302 and 304 of the Criminal Code has hardened. § 302 is the abuse of office, § 304 is the impurity. I do not add anything to this, but I urgently appeal to all the Greens not to throw out Christoph Chorherr now, just as the ÖVP or perhaps the Freedom Party would do, but not only to clarify this case in Vienna, in their own interest, so that a party such as the Greens, who are still credible in the question of a clean environment, has the chance to regain credibility as a party of clean control. This is not a small matter for me to talk about, but that is a point to which we also need to say that so that we do not have the right to talk about the much bigger and not comparable level of corruption among the two Ibiza parties. Now I come back to the so-called hacker attack: Imagine a supermarket where the money is missing in the cash register, there are no signs of collapse, no disc is struck, no lock is damaged, and someone notices that there is something missing in the cash register and says: This must have been a break-in from the outside, perfectly clear, a break-in from the outside. There's no trace, but it must have been a breaker from the outside. Now there is a difference between computers and a supermarket case: In the 19th and 20th computers, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. century, everything is external, because you can only enter a network and a computer system from outside, except the party leadership of the ÖVP lives in a server, which I would not recommend to her, especially for reasons of space. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So let us assume that the party leadership of the ÖVP does not live in a server, not even MP Nehammer, where one never knows exactly where he is, but outside! That's it. Then everything comes from outside, the hacker comes from outside, the mole comes from outside and Mr. Nehammer, who certainly never planned a false flag attack, because an ÖVPler does not plan a fake hacker attack. In the ÖVP has never been deceived, never been lied, there was always the truth. – Look, lies have short legs. After all I've experienced in recent months since Ibiza, I tell you: If lies have short legs, Sebastian Kurz is free of legs. That's it. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with JETZT and with representatives of SPÖ, as well as cheerfulness with members of the FPÖ.]] That's it. We must take note of this, but that must have consequences. Mr. Justice Minister, please do not use it, because that is not correct, in this context the term hacker attack. You yourself said you didn't say anything about the procedure. There's no evidence. You can say data leak, you can say illegal data flow, but no one of us can say it was a mole, it was a hacker, or it was a fake flag attack from the ranks of the ÖVP. I'm asking you to stay right, that's extremely important. Last word for parliamentary control: Mrs Griss, with all due respect, but we have the task of controlling the wise parts of the judiciary – and these are also the prosecutors. They are perfectly right, it is not our duty to sit down and look in front of us as Members at each investigation. I also fully understand that, in view of the ongoing investigations, the Minister of Justice does not answer many of our questions. That was clear. I have asked some of these questions so that what is in question is at all clear and unclear. But he could have answered some questions already. Some things he could have said. In the case of Chorherr, he gave an important answer. I'd be glad if he had said: Yes, the attack has come from outside, but we cannot say at the moment whether it was a hacker or a mole or a fake flag attack.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24350	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24365	One thing I would like to know, if not by the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor, then by the Austrian People's Party: Open your accounting documents so that we can check if there is a fake, or if you, what I am increasingly assuming, deliberately wanted to violate a law a second time in this election campaign and thus be repeat perpetrators! You owe that to the Republic. Cards on the table, documents on the table, public review! Then the electorate should decide whether to choose a party that has just deliberately broken a law or already, a second time, plans to break a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24392	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24414	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It really hurts me to give Peter Pilz right once – you can believe me – but I think that this debate is justified to some extent today. One does not come around to say that, but there have been some very strange incidents in Austrian domestic policy lately, and many of these strange incidents have occurred in the field of the ÖVP. Of course, there is the suspicion that when I look at the lines of argument recently, there has always been forward-looking strategies. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Dear Karl Nehammer, what bothers me so much, is that, if there is a problem, there is always this circlingly admitting. You always admit what anyone has. Then there is another forward strategy, or at the end of the day the third man will simply be invented. I think so much cutting should be done in politics, too, that if you make a mistake when something really happened, you admit it too. A little bit reminds me – many of us have children – of this: I'll get my kids on it when they're grafting me a little. I sometimes have this impression at the ÖVP. I don't have any confidence at all. The whole thing will be unpleasant if it is also flanked by the ÖVP network in the judicial system if the justice suddenly finds out that from the brittle heap of the shredded hard drives, it has had nothing to do with Ibiza. I found that interesting. It is also unpleasant if, on the one hand, the judicial Fast Lane is attacked by the ÖVP and on the other hand it has been used in the Ibizaaffair weeks to initiate investigations and say and write three months to do a house search with a lawyer who was already known on the third day after Ibiza. Mr Minister of Justice, I would like to think about what is going on in the justice system, and how the information from the judicial system is coming to Peter Pilz again and again. I therefore ask that we really start a political investigation procedure in order to support justice if it is not able to clarify it on its own and that, in the next legislative period, we also initiate a corresponding investigation committee on all these incidents. Unfortunately, God doesn't give me enough time to deal with Peter Pilz. I now wish him every good for his future in Innsbruck from here, because I think that most of the procedures that are still open will be recovered in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24463	Mr Bißmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, above all! I have not spoken in order to express myself to the hacker attack whether it has been true or a fake. I spoke in order to remind our electorate that the Member who has tabled this urgent question is Peter Pilz, a political colleague who wants to reveal to everyone and to everyone except himself. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] I would remind our electorate that this colleague originally did not accept his mandate two years ago, as accusations of sexual harassment have become public in two cases. Did these allegations ever be resolved? – At least not by Peter Pilz himself. The public prosecutor found out in both cases, but the investigations were closed. Why? – One of the two women did not want to declare and deprived the prosecutor of the authority to prosecute; probably for fear of making her face and her name public. The other case was discontinued due to limitation. Peter Pilz has thus publicly presented himself as a debt-free person and wanted to return to the National Council, which he did in the end. What about these accusations? When will they finally be cleared up? Are these really the only two cases of sexual harassment during the colleague's political career? Did other people know about it, even in their own party? Has any contact ever been made with the victims in order to initiate a reparation process, including extrajudicial? And above all: Where is the Commission of Inquiry dedicated to the completely unexplained and not at all thematic accusations of the sexual harassment of at least two women? Ladies and gentlemen! It scares me deeply that it is possible for a person who does not manage to clarify these accusations, which are directed against themselves, which were and are relevant to criminal law, to continue to portray himself as the discoverer of the nation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] But do not misunderstand me, colleagues of the ÖVP: Should such a hacker attack have been staged or should there have been a mole – however, that is fatal in any case. Every exit in this thing is fatal. However, it is not my job here to assess the authenticity of the hacker attack. Others may judge and analyze this. It is also not my job as a Member of the National Council to clarify the accusations against Peter Pilz. It is my duty, however, as a representative and representative of the people, to remind those esteemed voters who have a high claim in terms of the values and propriety of political representatives that, in the case of Peter Pilz, the propriety to dealing with the female sex is not yet recognizable, or at least is not proven, and that, in general, the necessary seriousness for this issue is not yet available in society. Everyone may come in front of his own door before he complains, reveals, and accuses others. I speak here for the women who do not trust themselves to express publicly what has happened to them; especially if it is a person of public life with a lot of media experience. This has a lot to do with shame and fear of being pulled through the dirt. That's what we know from the violence work. We politicians are role models, and it must not be that a Member of this House takes responsibility and thus has a negative signal effect on other men in that country, who may then think: It's all right, it's going through, it's going to be turned under the carpet anyway! – No, that’s not how it should go and that’s not how it will go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24543	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24564	High Bureau! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! There are two things left out of this debate for me. The first one is: We drive through our country and see posters on which says: “Who would choose the suit?” – If I read what donations the association of the Lord Choir has received, at least the first question of election has been answered: The Greens will no longer choose the propriety if they, in particular, who advertise with transparency and propriety, move out and, having criticized the investor policy of the city of Vienna, then do nothing else on their own responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] So if the greens are already ready to drink the best red wine and preach all the dissident normal water, they are not the redemption that comes upon us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, what Mr Pilz has offered us today is much more impressive. Mr. Pilz has been in politics for 30 years, and if you look at him for the last ten years, you can see that he has always become conspicuous by the fact that on the one hand his presence in the plenary room is rare – you can sign it for the last year – but on the other hand, as colleague Bißmann has already said, he has constantly revealed something. [[Abg. New builder: That he's never here!]] I remember: Eurofighter – Pilz surrounded by a bunch of disciples with cameras, with any notes, he found the Smoking Gun. Now the third Eurofighter Investigation Committee is over, and we have neither found nor smoked a gun. No substance, no substrate, no clarification of anything – but Peter Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, is the Enlighter of the nation! Again and again, he has records of any incidents of government authorities, and he is being asked how he gets to do so. Very quickly, he accuses every dissident, if only somehow, again with the participation of the disciples with the cameras. He will bring down these and those who have shown them and those. – At the end of the day, nothing ever comes out. No substance, no substrate, it has never been clarified at all – but Peter Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, is the discoverer of the nation! And today Peter Pilz stands out here and is subject to an erratic, illogical request this time by the Austrian People's Party, she has staged a hacker attack herself. He cannot, of course, be taught by the vice-president's answer, but he still criticises justice for it. Again allegations that are missing every substance, no substrate, nothing revealed – but Peter Pilz is the discoverer of the nation! If detection is equated with neighing, scandalizing, criminalizing and unjust accusations, then Peter Pilz is a discoverer, otherwise not. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is also reflected in a legislative proposal to exclude dissidents from government offices as far as possible. This is the last chance: To make laws that are otherwise known from Venezuela or other dictatorships. If you cannot defeat those who think differently in a normal way in elections, then you exclude them from offices. This is certainly a good example of Venezuela. This reveals the concept of democracy of Peter Pilz, and in view of this policy, Mr. Cot, which you are making, it should not be surprising that 99 percent of the population believe that you should start your retirement in political terms. If the voters start their retirement on 29.9.2019, they have also contributed to climate improvement in this country, because then the political climate in this country and in this House will be much more pleasant and better than it is now.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24619	No one is reporting on this. I am now allowed to pass on to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues and colleagues on 'Special Review Family Festival'. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 120) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, on ‘the immediate establishment of a ‘Wise Council’ to evaluate and improve the control of party funding in Austria’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who choose to vote for it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:49:08]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Request by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the Labour Market Policy Finance Act (941/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24677	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been given a period of time for reporting up to 4. ==References== Is there a wish for oral reporting? - That's not the case. Mrs Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24707	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! We are now debating a very important issue, namely our common desire to bring back to work older people who have been unemployed for a long time. We have seen a positive trend in unemployment in recent times. Unemployment rates are falling and there is an increase in employment, although at the beginning of September 331,000 people were without employment. This figure also includes more than 94 000 people over 50 who are looking for work. The figures are painful, considering what professional experience most people have and what skills and expertise they have. And when we consider that our companies in particular need a lot of skilled workers, it is right and important that we bring together entrepreneurs and job-seekers. Unfortunately, the efforts so far, such as the 20 000 action that the SPÖ wanted, have not focused on all the unemployed over 50 and have not really served the active labour market. The action was originally meant well, but unfortunately badly implemented, because the SPÖ support has been directed only to 20,000 for over 94 000 job-seekers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Is it just to promote some and not the others? – I say: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Unmistakable!]] No, of course it's not fair! Nor was the restriction on public and non-profit companies and the exclusion of the economy, the real and real job engine in our Republic. That is why the 20 000 action was very controversial from the very beginning and was therefore properly discontinued in 2017. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has also shown itself: With the end of public support, the job was also gone. The cost per job was between 27 000 and 39 000 euros, and this is simply too high in view of the lack of sustainability. The money that a job in action cost to 20,000 could in any case have promoted more jobs in the private sector. I am surprised that, although sustainability is always required in environmental policy, in the socialist sense of labour market policy, it is partly irrationally argued. Responsible policies must ensure the right framework conditions, be forward-looking, and labour market policies must set real emphasis on sustainable jobs, where money can also be earned through performance. For a successful labour market policy, good, practice-oriented and job-creating ideas are needed and not constantly reheated Uralt recipes that, as we know and have often experienced, have not worked. Of course, we are committed to reintegration of the elderly and the long-term unemployed into the current process, because we do not want and cannot give up on their valuable experience in living and working life. There has now been an amendment tabled by SPÖ and FPÖ, which takes into account not only the public sector but also the economy, and we can therefore agree to this. However, I am already assuming that there will be a funding directive for this funding, which the AMS Management Council will still decide on. I also hope for practical applications without additional bureaucracy for the economy, because the economy wants to create jobs in which you earn money with performance. Of course, we would have preferred to cover the financing over existing reserves rather than burdening the budget of the following years. At the end of the day, I can say that in the economy, too, we are committed to increasingly supporting people over 50 who are looking for jobs by expanding the prospects for a new job with qualifications, training, combination wages and integration aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24754	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24775	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I am surprised, Mrs Graf, that you are saying here that these people are important to you. I ask you: What have you done in the last 18 months for these people 50 plus really? – 94 000 people from this group are looking for jobs, and you have run out of employment and have not created new ones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They had nothing left for these people. It has always been said that this is a SPÖ employment measure. I'm telling you now how it was with me in the Leibnitz district. We have made use of 25 communities in Leibnitz, of which eleven communities of this job offensive for people 50 plus who were unemployed for more than a year, three SPÖ-run communities and eight ÖVP-run communities – these were the municipalities of Ragnitz, Tillmitsch, St. Johann, Straß, Ehrenhausen, Kitzeck, Leuchach. In other words, all the mayors said: This is a good action, we have jobs for these people that we could not otherwise have occupied! If only you would know the examples: an IT technician from Upper Austria who received a job from the magistrate Linz, who, as an IT expert, made the concept for the implementation of the data protection system of all senior centres in Linz; Ms. Heidemarie H. from Lower Austria, who as a branch manager lost the job, was unemployed for three years and then accompanied a disabled child in a community not managed by the SPÖ as a support force in a kindergarten. These were measures, that was a win-win situation for all, and you now come here and say: That's important, the economy is so important?- Oh, my God! – Why take You don't get these people into the companies? Why Bring She's not in jobs? Why do you demand new professionals from abroad before you bring the domestic professionals back into the jobs? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we have tabled a request – I would like to thank the FPÖ for supporting this SPÖ proposal in terms of deadlines – which aims to support these people with 1. In July the 20 000 action came out to restore the vision that they will still be needed in this country on the labour market. To date, the negotiations have succeeded in introducing a joint amendment in order not to make available twice as originally planned EUR 10 million for incentives for the people of the action 20 000, but to set aside EUR 50 million, not from the reserves of the AMS budget, because this would weaken other future measures, but from the budget. These 50 million euros are now 50 plus for people, and accordingly the new funding guidelines of the AMS management board and the AMS management board must be designed. The fact is: With this amendment we will bring funding back into a job offensive, for an action 20 000 new with new directives, with new criteria for people 50 plus who have problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this reason, I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] We have thus created a continuation for these people. – Thank you very much to all those who have contributed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to make another appeal to the ÖVP concerning young asylum seekers in teaching. A motion for a resolution will be tabled by the SPÖ and I am trying to really think about it. Today, as SPÖ, we have tabled a deadline request, with the request and with the appeal: Voices You are entitled to this deadline request so that our experts can find a legal solution by Wednesday next week, so that these nearly 900 young people in training in your businesses, who care for you as the Chamber of Commerce, can also complete the teaching accordingly! That's a compromise, a bridge, without us getting a lot of other things further. We need this margin so that these young people can finish their teaching. Everything else in the motion for a resolution is a declaration of will, and that is good, that is nice, but it does not create a legal basis for the Minister of the Interior to press the button accordingly; You know that. Mr Hammer, ladies and gentlemen, I am really looking for you: Look at what I sent you 42 minutes ago! Perhaps we can still agree to this request for a deadline today. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24955	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e24979	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, action 20,000, as decided by red and black at the time, was unfortunately a one - way road to God. We have already warned about that and said that these people will probably be standing on the street after two years, speak at the AMS, and as you know, we have unfortunately kept right. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it is also clear that these people need a perspective. This is necessary because I think there is nothing worse than being unemployed. However, it was important for us not to try to create artificial jobs that actually do not exist, but that we really try seriously to bring these people back into the first labour market. We have therefore also decided to support this request that we make 50 million euros available to the unemployed who are over 55 years old and over 50 years old in order to bring them back into the work process. But it was also very important to us that this money does not come from the AMS backs. We know that we might be heading towards recession, and we'll need the money then. I think that was one of the most necessary things we have done there, and that this is really useful now. Every unemployed person is too much, and every unemployed person over 50 is too much. These are the professionals, of which the economy always says they are missing at all corners and ends. That is why it is so urgent that we bring these people back into the labour market. This is actually a win-win situation for the unemployed as for the entrepreneurs. On Mr Hammer's motion for a resolution and Mr Karlheinz's head I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that we cannot accept this motion. [[Abg. Neubauer: Exactly!]] You write that You will never want to eliminate the asylum procedure, but at the same time you will have it off, because you will write three lines below: ‘At the same time, a negative asylum notice should only be enforced after completion of the teaching.’ What is that supposed to mean? – Someone gets a negative asylum notice, is allowed to finish the teaching here for three years, has confirmed his stay and is entitled to stay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] That is exactly what the right of asylum is, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and that is what you stand for. That's what the new short-term ÖVP stands for! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you know what else can happen if an asylum seekers are rejected, but he is allowed to finish the teaching? – This is an extortionable employee. Now, without anyone wanting to make a difference: These are the cheapest workers. That's why you want her, too. It's not about humanity, it's all about you trying to employ people cheaply. We know from these asylum seekers that more than half of them started teaching only after the first negative decision. The duration of the asylum proceedings has usually been reduced to six months, only through all these hundreds of thousands of oppositions – with NGOs and lawyers – the proceedings are delayed and extended. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And now there's also the new idea that you just put them in the teaching. That's the same thing that happened here – these are numbers that came from the BMI – just as it happened here: More than half began teaching only after the first negative asylum notice. They want all these people. That means everyone who comes to the country and screams asylum will stay there. No one will be pushed away anymore, for everyone will flee into a teaching. – This is the new way of the ÖVP! I congratulate you on this; obviously this is already the morning gift to the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25038	Mr Hammer has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25059	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs Sozialminister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Under this item on the agenda, which has already been discussed by the previous speakers, we are dealing with important measures in the field of the labour market, especially with the employment of older workers. I believe that we have really, together, found a good solution that we can carry together. However, to ensure that this is not misinterpreted, I would like to point out – we did not want to, and I also discussed this with Mr Stöger a few days ago – that it is in no way an extension or a continuation of action 20 000. This is not exactly because we had some doubts about this action. We can find a more sustainable and meaningful solution with the measures we are taking today. However, I should like to focus on a second point, which is related to the labour market and which has also been working on us recently, which is essentially also the area of skilled workers – the previous speaker has already begun to miss out on it – namely, apprentices and asylum. I think it is quite clear – I would like to underline this immediately at the outset; for the ÖVP this is a very clear positioning – that the area of teaching and asylum law must not be mixed and that is clearly to be separated. So if someone is an apprentice, that doesn't have the right to asylum, and it will remain the same. [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course it's hibernate!]] – It does not lift it off, and it will remain the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We simply propose the following, and we are really committed to a solution – our top candidate and Federal Party candidate Sebastian Kurz has also put forward a pragmatic solution in public, and our resolution goes in this direction: We currently have some 900 students in the field of asylum, and there are some or many cases where a negative asylum notice has been issued. [[Abg. Worm: What about the new cases?]] Our access, Mr Wurm, is quite simple, that there is a sensible and reasonable solution, not to eliminate asylum law, but simply to allow for the completion of the teaching rather than foreign police measures. That's what it's all about. This has nothing to do with the status of asylum and the title of residence. It is just that the teaching can be completed accordingly. It is clear that anyone who wants to start a teaching in the future needs a positive asylum notice. So we are dealing with the cases which have already been raised and where we are to find a solution to this problem. It is not about new cases, it is not about eliminating asylum law. It is quite clear – and that is what I would like to say at this point – that our focus must be on putting asylum seekers, especially those who have a positive knowledge into teaching places, into employment. [[Abg. Worm: Over 30,000!]] – That's thousands, you have to start. Now we are dealing with old cases which are already in the system, and this is a pragmatic solution, which is in the sense of the economy, also in the sense of those concerned, and that is what we want to regulate accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That means that it is really only about completing the teaching, and that has nothing to do with the asylum procedure as such. Mr Muchitsch, on your requests: We're going to take a look at it accordingly. We are very interested in bringing together a solution for these cases. That's what we need to look at accordingly. With the motion for a resolution, for which I would like to vote, we have a clear sign that we want to resolve these 900 cases accordingly. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[18:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25200	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. Mr Stöger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25224	Madam President. My dear members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Do you know the difference between beautiful speeches and concrete action? – Today we experience beautiful speeches, beautiful speeches about how bad it is when people are unemployed. When it comes to concrete action, what has been done is mispronounced. I ask you: Which entrepreneur in the ÖVP, which companies has managed to take in 3 900 people over 50 years of age and have been unemployed for a year, to give them a job, to give them a perspective? – With the 20 000 action we did it! Do you know what I'm particularly pleased about? – I am particularly pleased that a third of these people have been further employed by the previous employer after the expiry of this action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If people are given a perspective, they are also willing to make contributions to the Austrian economy. We have not allied these people, no, we have given them a job, activities that society urgently needs, and they have returned us a lot of work – this makes action 20 000 so successful. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that we are now taking concrete action from the beautiful speeches. It is necessary to take the necessary steps – thank you for that. I would also like to take concrete action when it comes to – ladies and gentlemen Hammer, we are happy to discuss it – creating concrete solutions. Although a motion for a resolution is nice, something concrete would be to create legal provisions. If you vote in favour of our request for a deadline, we can become active at the next National Council meeting. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! People who are trained in us always have a good relationship with Austria, and that is an investment in the future. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25349	This request is also properly filed and is under negotiation. I call Mr Kainz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25373	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! In 2016, there were about 50,000 long-term unemployed people over 50 years of age in Austria. In order to restore the perspective of these people, who are in a particularly difficult situation, as there are often several barriers to mediation, such as age, long-term unemployment or health problems, the action has been decided 20 000. With the help of action 20,000, state-funded and collectively paid jobs should be created especially for those people who are often particularly difficult in the labour market. Only such jobs should be created for municipalities, non-profit organisations or social enterprises which would not be feasible without State aid. ==References== The time-limited action ended June 2019. Although the final results of the evaluation are not yet available, we know that only about 3 800 people could be transferred to assisted jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite rising economic growth, there is still a large number of unemployed people over 50 – it is precisely this one that should help. Additional expenditure on aid, measures and employment projects to create and promote jobs for over 50 years of unemployed will therefore be made available up to a maximum of EUR 50 million. A focus is also to be placed on the target group of the 20 000 action. A change to the Labour Market Policy Financing Act is an important step towards giving more than 50-year-old unemployed people a chance to re-enter the professional world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25410	I call Mr Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25432	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate listeners! I should like to respond to this proposal and also very briefly to the contributions made by Mr Stöger and Mr Muchitsch. In principle, I would like to doubt that unemployment is a threatening situation for every person, regardless of age, because it is usually associated with financial, social, social and not rarely family consequences. This means that we all and the labour market are invited to do everything we can to avoid unemployment. We have already heard a lot about the 20 000 action. In Vienna, for example, employed 694 people in May. The target of 20,000 people was not achieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] Dear Beppo, you have spoken to the congregations, and Mr Stöger has also mentioned the advantages. I want to blend back briefly into 2017: With the municipalities, dear Beppo, the joy was great over the announcement that the federal government is providing 100 percent-funded labour force – the joy was great. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical]] I too have been working on this program in my city, an ÖVP city, four people – everything so far, so good. These people have integrated at that time, they were motivated, they were part of teams, they were associated and actually felt comfortable. But now it's coming. We all know how public budgets and how public institutions work. For the employment of people who should then be paid through the communities, there is a service plan, which is also provided with a budget, and exactly there is the Krux: At the end of this period, in most communities – including mine – there was no corresponding service plan, which would have taken this more into account for employees. What followed was a bitter disappointment of these people, for they had meant that they now had a foothold in the door of the community and there practically a safe employer. The bitter disappointment was that this hope could not be fulfilled because these employment conditions were usually terminated. This really goes by the meaning of the action, and I would warn every community to repeat this action. But what we do support and what we stress is to help people over 50 who are longer unemployed, to qualify them, to train them and to qualify for the labour market in times of shortage of skilled workers. That's why I'm asking: In the future, we will not distribute expensive gifts, but we will make a sustainable solution for the labour market, for the economy for sustainable jobs in companies and not in public service! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25487	Mr Muchitsch spoke on an actual correction. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25511	Madam President, I would like to make an actual correction to the statements made by Mr Stark. Dear Christoph, you said that the 20,000 were not reached. It was almost 5,000 before this action entered into force at all. In the pilot experiment we had over 5,000 reports. ==References====External links== In January 2018 this stop button would have been pressed, otherwise it would have become well over 20,000. So before this project enters into force, you pressed the stop button. I'm correcting: The project did not run at all, otherwise it would have become looser the 20,000.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25546	I assume that the new GP will have to be discussed about the formulation of an actual correction. Mrs Zadić is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25570	Madam President. Appreciate Seers and Advisors! High house! I welcome today's request by Mr Muchich and Mr Belakovich, because I believe it is important that the unemployed are not left alone over 50 and that in politics we really put in place the measures necessary for these people to return to employment. However, there are also other measures for the labour market that would be absolutely necessary. Let us take a look at the shortage of skilled workers: We know – and I quote numerous studies – that the shortage of skilled workers is one of the greatest risks to the Austrian economy. I would like to remind you that by September 2018, there was the possibility that asylum seekers could begin an apprenticeship in occupations up to the age of about 25 years, provided that no domestic or equivalent substitute power could be provided for this apprenticeship. Many firms have made use of this possibility and have found apprentices from the circle of asylum seekers for the open teaching places that would otherwise have remained unoccupied. Ladies and gentlemen! These apprentices do excellent work. They are motivated, they support our businesses, they are an important support for our innkeepers, for our hotel businesses and for our teaching companies – very well, you want to think. It is also very good for most of these apprentices, for those who have a positive asylum notice. But there are, ladies and gentlemen, 900 apprentices who are threatened with deportation. 900 apprentices can be sent away, they can no longer work in these establishments. – This is devastating, both for the apprentices and for the companies that really invested money to train these apprentices and who build and trust on these apprentices. I know it is an inconceivable achievement that these people have done, because one has to imagine that these people have come to Austria without speaking a word of German. They don't have any friends here who can support them, most of them don't have families here, and yet they've managed to do it, yet they've done something impossible to find a connection here, become a part of society and really integrate themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, let us reward this integration. Let us reward the use of these people! The ÖVP always says: Integration through performance! - If that's not performance, I don't know. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] I therefore propose an additional motion for a resolution today, because it is important for me to ask the Minister of the Interior to draw up a law that provides a sufficient basis for the 900 people not being postponed: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am making this request because I believe that we need to do something urgently. It is still being agreed today on a SPÖ deadline application, which would allow us to put in place a law in parliamentary form to actually create the legal basis for these people to stay in Austria until the completion of the teaching. If that is not possible, I ask you all to agree here. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] [[18:24]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25691	This request is also properly filed and is under negotiation. As no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate and ask the rapporteur whether he wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the draft law contained in Amendment 941/A by Mr Muchich, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Muchich, Dr Belakovich, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Muchitsch, Dr Belakovich, colleagues, tabled an amendment on paragraphs 1 and 2 of the draft law. Whoever joins these changes, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the proposal for an initiative. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. That is why we shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Michael Hammer, colleagues on “Pragmatic Solution for Asylum & Teaching”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 109) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on 'Teachers - Integration'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Schellhorn, Dr Alma Zadić, Mr LL.M., colleagues on 'Training instead of deportation'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. (E 110) (Fig. Worm: Where's Norbert Hofer? Norbert, where are you? – Further calls at the FPÖ.) [[18:26:38]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 985/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Hanger, MMag. DDr. Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to be applied to employed persons, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Protection of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25817	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. [[Unrest in the hall.]] - Gentlemen! There was no oral reporting. Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25850	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Federal Minister! The planned changes to the Financial Organisation Reform Act are linked to several points which I consider to be a disadvantage to the Austrians as a practitioner. As far as Austria's financial office is concerned, the centralisation of expertise in agglomerations, especially in the Federal Capital, is something that has already been strongly influenced in Austria. Other states deliberately set up rural accents and settle there federal or rural authorities. This ensures – and this is very important – local jobs and thus rural infrastructure. For the first time, the EIAs are strong for rural regions, but real policies are different. Recently, I was again in Tyrol confronted with the apparently planned closure of district courts, which was apparently prepared under turquoise blue. We are strictly opposed to further centralization measures and savings in rural areas, as this will destroy jobs in the valleys, leave people on the spot and produce additional traffic. The turquoise-blue government has already starved justice, and the same is threatening in many other areas of public administration, which, however, is very important for the functioning of democracy and is doing good work. We must not forget that savings in the staff of the financial management have the opposite effect: Fewer staff means more tax avoidance and tax fraud. So there are those who pay their taxes honestly. We are talking about the fact that many things can be done from home with a digitalisation offensive, but broadband development is not yet sufficiently advanced in many rural areas, and if the people in the area get away with it, the public service suffers enormously. But above all, older people do not have the necessary digital competence. This is also evident in the queues in the information centres of the financial offices. The excellent achievements of our colleagues are a guarantee of the rule of law, security, the best functioning education system and quality public administration services. I therefore urge, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, to withdraw from this decision on these grounds. In any case, the SPÖ will not agree to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25897	Mr Hanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e25918	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Yildirim, I think you have not been involved in the discussions in the Committee on Budgets. I do not think you have any access to this law in the whole way, otherwise, I think, you would have a completely different approach, because this law – and I would like to emphasize it in the opening – means a strengthening of rural areas, and that is very important to me, especially as an ÖVP member, as an electorate from a rural region. [[Abg. Krainer: But do you know where she works?]] [[Abg. Krainer: But, Andreas, do you know where she works? She works in a financial office!]] What I want to hold for the first time: I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance and congratulate him on this reform work. Since I deal with political issues, it has always been administrative reforms. I have already come and go to see many administrative reforms, but I have very rarely experienced a reform that could have been implemented internally in the house at the end of the day. Obviously, in a long process from the outset, all the important actors and stakeholders, including staff representatives and department heads, have been involved, and I would like to congratulate them, because we all know: Change means change – it's not always good for everyone, but in this case it's consensual. I think that is acceptable, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Mr Hanger, you should listen to Mr Yildirim, she speaks out of practice! She's working at the Innsbruck Finance Office!]] What are the essential points? – We summarize 40 financial offices into one of Austria’s financial offices, nine customs offices being grouped into a customs office in Austria. There will be a financial office for large businesses for large businesses. The financial police and the tax warrant are organized into an anti-fraud office, and, in connection with the reform of social security funds, the audit service for pay-related charges and contributions is also established. That is, one slims structures, and at first glance it looks almost as if there would be a centralization, but quite the contrary – we have also been able to clarify this in advance in the Committee on Budgets –: There remains every single financial office, including in the rural regions, and we can strengthen these financial offices with this structure. A previous disadvantage was, for example, that the tasks between the financial offices were unevenly distributed. Some financial offices have had a very large task to deal with, for example in carrying out auditing, others less. There is a central control, but it also manages to move tasks to rural areas, and that is, I think, very, very remarkable, because we have been discussing the issue of having authorities in the rural regions for a very long time. But I have never been allowed to experience it so immediately and have never been able to understand it so immediately that it actually works. I would also like to address one point that has already been mentioned in the Committee on Budgets. The Minister for Finance has also explicitly said: There are, of course, great challenges in financial management with currently 11 000 employees – at this point also a great deal of thanks to all employees in the financial management! There is a lot of excellent work being done, and there is time to say thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the Minister of Finance has also mentioned that, of course, demographic change can also be felt in the financial offices, there is a great wave of retirement, and this reform is naturally intended to address these developments. The Minister of Finance has also explicitly mentioned that this is also an opportunity for rural regions. There are many good, qualified workers there, and we know that we can keep these good employees in the rural regions when there are the corresponding job opportunities. I think that this intention of this law is really very important. You have defined very ambitious objectives, Minister of Finance. It is a question of reducing the processing time in the case of workers' incomes, for example, it is also a question of reducing the processing time accordingly in connection with the payment of family aid. These are very ambitious objectives, but this also means strengthening rural areas. Of course I always take with me: We also need the digital infrastructure in rural areas. What will help if we have financial offices in rural regions if they are not connected accordingly to digital infrastructure? These are tasks that we have worked intensively in recent years, which we still need to work on in the future in order to achieve equal opportunities. But I really want to congratulate you on your intention. The Financial Office Neu, this Financial Organisation Reform Act creates a narrowing of the structures, but also a strengthening of rural areas. In this way, it is a reform that we can only support from our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26004	Mrs Yildirim spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26029	Mr Hanger von der ÖVP said in his speech that there was a consensus. - That's wrong. The right thing is: There was no consensus with the staff representative, there was no consensus in Parliament's work, and there was no consensus with the representatives of the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26105	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26126	Madam President. Mr. Finanzminister – ah, this time he's sitting on the other side! As Mr Hanger rightly said, we had a discussion in the Committee on Budgets on the reorganisation of the financial management, but I do not know that I felt I was in another committee because I saw and took various things differently. [[Abg. Hanger: Often, Rossmann!]] They have now very often addressed the strengthening of rural areas, and we have discussed how the closure of rural financial offices is – and there is no guarantee. They thanked the Minister of Finance for ensuring that rural financial services would not be closed, but they do not exist. [[Abg. Hanger: The intention of the law... addressed!]] If, in fact, financial offices in rural areas are closed, there is already a question of what is the strengthening of rural areas. But I start - – – please? [[Abg. Hanger: There are no closed!]] [[Abg. Hanger: There will be no financial offices closed, have...!]] – There is no guarantee for this, but the Minister of Finance has also said that, and Mr Krainer has also participated in this debate. [[Abg. Hanger: The intention of the law!]] – But well, we were probably at another event, or at least I was. [[Abg. Hanger: Yes, I believe so!]] Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of this organisational reform law is in principle correct, especially as regards the financial offices, because it was already in the run-up to observe that financial offices have been used differently. A financial office in the Greater Vienna region has had a different workload than a financial office in the Waldviertel. Of course, it was already a useful goal to distribute the agendas and the tasks to the existing 40 financial offices in Austria more evenly; I am standing behind them too. The problem, however, is that the 40 financial offices have now become a financial office in Austria – a very powerful, very, very large financial office. You, Mr Finanzminister, have said – you have tried to scatter my concerns that I originally had – that although some smaller financial offices would be grouped together and thus some department lines would be saved, in principle there would not be new invitations to tender. However, it is not clear that, when this law is implemented, five very powerful units remain at the end of the day: Austria's financial office, the large-scale audit, the customs office Austria, the anti-fraud office, and finally, I think, the audit service for pay-dependent charges and contributions. So, five powerful, central points. There must be written out. My concern was that these calls for tenders would lead to political occupations, and this is a great danger because of this, of course, the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to decision-makers or the access of larger firms to decision-makers in the large-scale audit is changing considerably. And if there are political occupations there, then the poison is for financial management. Financial management must be one that is policy-free. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] When I think about how the posts were under black and blue in the last two years, I have to say that it has been hard to find that there was a huge post-checker – whether this was the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, whether that was the Öbag, whether that was the transport sector, wherever – and that filled and filled me with real concern. I think I'm right. It was amazing that, after the budget committee meeting, I received very, very many emails from people working in the financial management, who gave me the right to share the concerns I had. That is exactly the problem, Mr Finanzminister, and this problem and these my concerns you have not been able to address in committee. That is also the reason why I will reject this law. You did not answer my question in committee. I asked if the solution could not have been made different, whether it could have been possible to achieve the objectives of the reorganisation with regard to a more uniform division of work between Austria and Austria. You have not answered this question, you have left it open in the room. Summing up once again: I am concerned that there will be political occupations, and the financial management and political occupations will not fit in; we must not let that happen. This has not happened at all in the past, but in the recent past there have been political occupations over and over again, but not in such powerful offices as they are now created. I therefore have a clear no to this organisational reform in the financial administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26236	The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26257	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! For us, of course, the positive sides of this financial organisation reform law outweigh. In general, public services are facing major challenges in the coming years, in terms of human resources due to the threat of ageing, in technical terms, as a result of ever more complex issues, but also regulations, especially in technical terms; Keywords digitalization. That is why, at this point, I would also like to thank the public officials for the services they provide on a daily basis, from justice to kindergarten, school, hospital, police to financial administration. – A warm thank you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Changes will be necessary, changes that address these challenges, which ideally make life easier for people, but which also improve the opportunities for public servants to carry out their tasks. Of course, it is also important to adapt the financial offices to the future challenges, and with this reform we are taking the financial offices a step further into the 21st century. And make them fit for the new challenges. Free to Albert Einstein: You can't leave everything at the old age and hope that something will change. – We do not hope and we do not wait, but we act actively and decisively. Public service is there for people and should be there for people, but it should not be an inconspicuous jungle of responsibilities; therefore, the 40 financial offices will now be reduced to two competent tax authorities throughout the country, namely – it has already been mentioned – the Austrian Financial Office and the Financial Office for Large Enterprises. The customs offices will be united into a customs office and there will be an anti-fraud office. This brings together the expertise for the people, but above all the aim is to ensure that the procedures are speeded up because the procedures are conducted where the resources are available. Financial officials will not change much, but they will become part of a more efficient system. We use the potential of our financial offices better even in the context of digitalization, financial online and so on. In doing so – and it is also important to us to maintain this – we are committed to strengthening rural areas, to quality jobs in rural areas. This means that the existing services should continue to exist. According to the motto: Simply imitate!, with this reorganisation, we allow resources to be better exploited, and ultimately also improve the performance opportunities of our financial management. I hope that a broad agreement will be reached on this draft law, because it is a good draft law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26301	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26322	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners and listeners! The financial management is facing major challenges, some of which have already been decided on, some of which are still to be decided, not just in terms of financial management, but also in terms of the entire financial area. Excuse me, if I say that – and you can then blame me for overstepping my office and my competence – but Max Weber called me about exactly a hundred years ago, I think, three qualities of politics: first of all the passion for the matter, second of all the sense of responsibility regarding the effects and third of the view as a rational counter-pollution to emotional passion; and he, I believe, has also established the postulate that all three qualities must always and always be given at the same time. You still have a vote in front of you today, and I would ask you, not for the budget of 2019, not for the ambition of Mr Müller and not for the soul healing of the Ministry of Finance, but for – if you so want – our common future to make the right decision for the challenges of the coming years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The mega-topics of financial management – and now I come to an issue that, I know very well, drives me a little bit of passion; I hope not to lose sight – are digitization, globalisation, polarization in the behaviour of taxpayers and also the age structure and demographic development of our employees. I think, and I am really personally convinced that, in view of these challenges, new solutions, including new structures, also need new ones. For digital corporations, it makes no difference whether they sell in the Burgenland, Vorarlberg or in Vienna in the 1st or 2nd. Make a district. Workers and workers want to deal with their employees' concerns and their family allowances where they are right now, when they have time, and that is usually not where they live, but it is very common where they are working or otherwise just staying. That taxpayers do not comply with any local responsibilities, I think, is understood by themselves. With this, and this is what I can authentically say, the concept of reorganisation of the financial management is intended to make Austrian financial management future-oriented. We are moving, if you so decide, the House of Lords, here also in the direction of European development. For the employees and for colleagues – I will be back in a financial office at half past nine, wherever I come from – this means the opportunity to have an even labour load, to have qualitative training and development opportunities, the opportunity to specialize, just as the consulting side, the companies are now doing. For workers, this means, and I can promise you, faster work in connection with employee employment, family aid, simply because of the uniform distribution of work across Austria. For companies, this means having clear contacts, faster procedures, extended service, information and so on. In order for all this to be possible, there should be new structures. These are, of course, only the structures – and as you all know, they are behind a reform, a reorganisation, a modernisation, of course, more than just making new boxes – but the structures that are to be created have already been mentioned: a financial office Austria with a consistently digitized employee charge, for example. It is now almost 70 per cent over FinanzOnline, the remaining 30 per cent are scanned in Austria; it doesn't matter if I do this employee charge in Vienna, Oberwart or Bregenz. As editors, you have the same documents on the screen everywhere, which is an advantage for businesses and for citizens. Every time – and these are hundreds of thousands of times in Austria – when someone lives, and be it only in Vienna from 1st to 2nd. District, or the company's head office changes, there's a file assignment. That means you have to report to the financial office and the financial office has to send the act from A to B. – All these things, I think, are no longer in line with today’s times. Secondly, in this Modernisation Act, in this Reorganisation Act, there is a Financial Office for Large Businesses, whereby the administrative competence is also combined with the audit competence and can therefore be easily faster procedures, since no longer two units are responsible, and there is also a higher legal certainty. To the customs office of Austria, I must tell you quite honestly that if you decide to take measures under the tax reform law, the tax reform law, and in particular the withdrawal of the 22-Euro rule, which will not create in a customs administration with nine locally competent customs offices – except you decide to make a strong increase in staff. We need a customs office in Austria. The fourth new Office will be the Anti-Fraud Office to prevent national and international tax fraud. A contact person is always required by international law. Collection and criminal competence should be brought together in order to be able to counter this ever more specialised tax fraud. - So much for the fourth office. The fifth office – which is not part of this legislative package – is the audit service for wage-dependent contributions and contributions, which was part of the social security reform. I am two answers, I think, not to remain guilty, but I have apparently not formulated them well enough. Another solution, which Mr Rossmann asked for, I wanted to say, and I had believed that I had said it, fails because in Austria we have committed the right to the legal judge with the monocromatic administration, a constitutional command, and that it has local responsibilities. Therefore, we would have to work either with service assignments or just with file redundancies, which would be a relatively high – a possible but a high – bureaucratic effort. The second clarification concerns agreement with staff representatives. I had the entire central committee with me yesterday because of many issues. There was neither yesterday nor the time before, since this topic was on the tapet, a so-called §-10 staff representation law procedure. On the contrary: We have tried, and I think it has also succeeded in involving the legal staff representatives very, very wide. You can also read a few issues of the Central Committee – at least from my side when it releases the Central Committee. Of course, there are concerns there and there, there are points that are important to staff representation. We have tried to meet these points and have therefore, I believe, received real consent – it is not consent within the meaning of the PVG, but I call it consent. One last clarification, because this is also stated in the room: The sites, even now not in the law, but in a regulation, remain. And the strengthening of rural areas: What this means is that you can already see in three financial service centres in the federal states – we will increase them – you can see them on a specialized team, for example at the Finanzamt Bruck Eisenstadt Oberwart and on other measures that will be possible due to this legal construction of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26396	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he would like a final word. - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 692 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:55:43]] 13. Point Request by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues on financial security of the Consumer Information Association (VKI) (973/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26452	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. With regard to this application, the Consumer Protection Committee became a deadline for reporting to 1. August 2019 set. There was no oral reporting. Mr Weidinger is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26482	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners! This request concerns the Consumer Protection Association. This request, tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, moves on the basis of the government programme, and we will give him the consent in this form. I would like to express my appreciation for the staff of the VKI. In a functioning market economy, it is necessary for free competition to provide advice and information to the fullest extent possible. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Worm.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is essential to note, however, that in Austria, especially when it comes to enforcement, where there are issues and problems, when it comes to implementation in this area, we are leading in Europe in terms of standards. That is what we want for many other Member States. It is therefore necessary, in the interests of the Austrian economy, for us to force the principle of consulting instead of punishing and that we also go down in the case of cumulation of penalties so that our SMEs remain protected in the future. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, will not give our assent to the proposal, the SPÖ and FPÖ here in addition, since the Federal Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be asked to present a complete approach by next week; but now there will be an own proposal that will intervene in this matter. We do not think so because the best way to protect consumers is to give people more net of gross, as we have implemented today with the decision of the first stage of the tax reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, we do without making new debts, and we consistently continue the path of Sebastian Kurz and the new People's Party. First: We have eased the small and the low income accordingly. We have reduced VAT in tourism and we have introduced the family bonus Plus to give people the money back by saving in the system and not with them. - That's right and that's good. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the pensioners, who, for example, earn 1 100 euros gross per month, are now putting 200 euros in their wallet with the tax reform. In addition, if a part-time worker earns EUR 1,200 gross, we have organised €300 more money for this woman in the state; not because we give it back to them, but because they deserved that the money stays with people, because they know how to use the money. The most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in the field of energy supply, when someone produces energy at home, we abolish electricity. Thus, there is also the possibility in the new working world that people will find themselves, because today not only is the producer or consumer, but there are also many prosumers who contribute to climate change. And it is necessary that these people who do this feel that they remain money and find it a relief. In this sense, we need to keep a close eye on these new business areas when adapting the institutions and the CCI. I would like to remind you that the former Minister of Social Security Hartinger-Klein, together with us, has implemented very intensively the theme of social security reform, but because of the content of the Ibiza video, it was no longer possible for her to present a draft that she would imagine that the new funding and the new tasks of the VKI should look. [[Abg. Krainer: What does this have to do with the VKI?]] We therefore support Mr Wurm's fundamental request, but not the SPÖ and FPÖ amendment. In this sense: Ladies and gentlemen! Let us continue the path of competition for the best ideas, the way of Sebastian Kurz with the new People's Party. - If you want short, choose briefly!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26532	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26553	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Weidinger, there is nothing to protect consumers in the government programme. You have now had the unique opportunity to present yourself here as consumer protection spokesperson of the ÖVP and to say what you want to achieve for consumers in this country. And what did you do? – gave an election speech. Consumers in this country have nothing to do with this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, in politics, this is also a priority. Especially in consumer protection, we have had more intense, tougher confrontations, but it is also part of the policy to work together, so to speak, and to find solutions together. I would like to thank the committee chairman Peter Wurm. I think we have had very intense discussions in committee. We have also been able to make committee opinions, make committee hearings and highlight the wide range of consumer protection issues. We do not have any implementation to date, and I am glad that we are now making a request at the end of the legislative period, which regulates the important issue of the financing of the CCI. We have done something in the last legislative period, which is important: We have provided the VKI with 1.5 million euros of additional resources, from cartel fines, i.e. fines. It is often the same in politics: One does something that sounds good in theory, but in practice God does not have the success that one has hoped for. The fines are only in retrospect, but the VKI must know by what means it is budgeting and what resources it can expect. Therefore, there is this joint request from Peter Wurmund to put this promotion of the VKI on new feet. The VKI needs about €4.75 million to be able to carry out its current tasks in its current form. This €4.75 million will be made available from next year's indexed as follows: As the VKI mainly provides advisory services, making salary and wage costs the main component of expenditure, the funds will be adjusted to increase the pay of KV so that these increases that employees have earned there are also ensured in financing. That's how, I think, good common policy works. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Worm.]] As I said, there were tough negotiations. I would like to thank the fact that we have now reached this joint solution proposal in the interests of consumers. Of course, Peter Weidinger referred to it, we know that additional tasks will be given to consumer protection. We have discussed many of them in the committees, and I would be pleased if we could find not only one line in the next government programme but clearly more about consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26617	I call Mr Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e26639	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, my previous speakers have already explained a little about what it is all about. It may not be very spectacular for the spectators, but I would like to explain it already, as it is important for all of Austria. All of us are consumers, so all of us are close to 8.7 million Austrians. It turned out that the VKI is actually consumer protection in Austria. This VKI has perceived the interests of our consumers for years and decades, and in my opinion it has done very well. But the VKI is, and we or I personally have already made this clear during the previous legislative periods, in recent years we have been sleeping in massive financial turbulence. It was really button on Spitz to put it a little bit, yes, just – thank you, thank you! – whether the VKI will survive the next few months. [[Abg. Lighten: Spitz on button!]] We are talking at the VKI about an organisation that was actually founded by the social partners at the time. There were Chambers of Commerce, Chambers of Agriculture, Industrial Association, Chamber of Workers and Trade Unions. After many, many years and decades, only the Chamber of Labour remained as the only ordinary member. We must make structural, organisational, very many changes in the field of VKI. I would have liked to have done this in my capacity as chairman of the Consumer Protection Committee in Parliament. We'll see what on the 29th. September comes out and how consumer protection will continue after the 29th. If I am part of this team, I will be very happy to make this happen personally. However, I would also like to express my express thanks to all the members of all the groups of the European Parliament's Consumer Protection Committee. It was always the attempt to find a solution together on a very broad basis. I would also like to return the compliment to Mr Vogl of the SPÖ. I think we have really tried to find a solution because of our personal interest over the last few years, and I am very glad that we have found a solution at the end of the legislative period that will secure the VKI financially in the long term. The objective would actually be to spend 0.1% of the total budget on consumer protection in the budget. We are still a great deal far away from this sum, which would amount to about 8 million euros a year, in order to clarify the dimension as well. In fact, there is now a sustainable special financing of around 600 000 to 700 000 euros per year. So I think that's a very, very reasonable sum, and that's why we ensure consumer protection in Austria. Also important is: Consumer protection, the VKI should remain independent, because only if it remains state-dependent will we as Austria continue to be represented in international cooperation on consumer protection. In principle, once again: Despite all the difficulties, the VKI has a self-financing rate of almost 70 percent. It employs about 120 people there. I just mention a few important tasks: This is, of course, the hopefully well-known “consumer”, who regularly informs us about test reports, experience reports. Of course, the VKI also complains to consumers of companies, if something does not happen lawfully, I only refer to the VW diesel scandal, with the VKI working intensively. But there are also a lot of new tasks that come to the VKI: IOT, a huge theme, Internet security. So there are very, very many things that will affect consumer protection for all of us in the future, and for that we need a stable and financed VKI. I would like to thank once again all those who support this request today and ensure that it is financed. I would also like to thank you, of course, for the fact that I must not let this go unforgivable, with Mrs Zarfl, with whom we were able to go the last piece together and have found a solution relatively quickly now. It is a bit complicated, so I must read this resolution in a longer format, I hope you will give me 2, 3 minutes of your attention. I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your patience. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[19:13]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27034	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution 973/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues and colleagues on financial security of the Consumer Information Association. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 111) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wurm, Mr Ing. Vogl, colleagues on “Federal Law on the Financing of Certain Tasks of the Association for Consumer Information by the Federation”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. (E 112) [[19:14:39]] 14. Point Request by fellow Members Gabriela Schwarz, Philip Kucher, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the federal law on the collection of blood and blood components in blood donation institutions (Blutsicherheitsgesetz 1999 – BSG 1999), BGBl. I No. 44/1999, amended (927/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27102	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of time for reporting to the Health Committee was allowed until 4. ==References== There was no oral reporting. We therefore make the first speech, and I give the floor to Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27132	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you, ladies and gentlemen, need a blood transfusion, then you don't even care if it comes from a stationary blood donation or from a mobile blood donation. What you want to know, and let me just say that, is whether the blood is healthy. In the spring of this year, after hip surgery, a patient has a blood infected with malaria, i.e. a blood transfusion, and died from it. The donor who did not mention that she was abroad, and an employee of the Red Cross was accused of negligent killing. Especially in the light of this serious incident and in the light of the ongoing procedure, it is precisely in the field of mobile blood donation facilities that we think it is completely missing to reduce the safety standards of the fitness examination of donors and to rationalize doctors, as the ÖVP and SPÖ are planning in their application today. The aptitude test of a blood donor is essential for the safety of all of us who need blood. We all want to be sure that the blood we get is the blood transfusion, healthy. I spoke to colleagues who were involved in the case of the deceased patient, I received letters from colleagues from the Red Cross: Everyone has assured me that they are equal to a blood transfusion of a transplant and that the medical examination is essential for them. The President of the Austrian Medical Chamber, Professor of the University of Ssafes, has also assured that, if the Red Cross has organizational problems in driving up doctors, he is happy to assist, but the medical examination is a very important and clear and non-negligent standard when we assume that we all want to get healthy blood – in the case we need it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We do not want to reduce safety standards, we want to improve them. In other words, the doctor must carry out the fitness test of the blood donor. There must be no difference whether a donation is made in a mobile device or in a stationary facility. The choice of donor must be made throughout Austria, and that is not the case until now, under the same conditions. In other words, there must be a standardised questionnaire and a standardised course of action. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the good cooperation on this issue and to submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to agree to our request and to welcome my warnings. In the future, climate change on the one hand, on the other hand, will challenge the migration movement to have many new infectious diseases in the country and to deal with them, but also that old diseases, already defeated by us, will re-ignite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27258	The application is properly filed and is under negotiation. Mrs Schwarz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27283	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by introducing an editorial amendment tabled by my colleagues, Mr Schwarz, Mr Kucher and Mr Loacker, on the precise definition of mobile blood donation operations. Let's go to the blood donation. Every 90 seconds a blood can be used in Austria, which is 350,000 bags a year. Any person who spends blood is automatically life-saving or life-saving, for blood is life-necessary and cannot be artificially replaced. Especially in summer, the Austrian Red Cross repeatedly calls for blood donation, because in the summer there are fewer people. More than 100 mobile blood donation operations per year must be cancelled by the Blood Donation Centre for Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, because not enough doctors are available, which are still strictly planned. – We want to change that. In addition, 5 percent of foreign demand had to be purchased last year. It's not yet clear how much this is going to be. Recently, a transfusion physician, the head of the AKH, warned that it could soon happen that vital operations can no longer be performed because there is a lack of blood. It is high time for us to end these long discussions. In many constructive discussions, we have worked together to find a solution that is already the case in many European countries, namely that a doctor no longer has to be present in the mobile blood donation. But that does not mean that we are putting the safety at risk, because first of all a doctor for queries is available by telephone and secondly, of course, there is the standardized anamnese bow already in which exactly how suitable a donor and a donor is. We want to preserve security of supply, but without endangering the safety of the donors and even those of the patients. Blood donors – we know this from the surveys – are healthier than the average citizen and the average citizen in Austria, think of themselves as healthier, and there has been no life-threatening situation in the last 25 years in mobile blood donation operations and 5 million blood donations. If there are difficulties, then we know that in 90 percent of cases within 10 minutes of the rescue service on site and a emergency doctor does not need more than 15 minutes. What does it mean, then, when doctors are no longer involved in mobile blood donation? – We know that qualified care staff in many areas of the Austrian health system is doing really important work. We also very much appreciate this, and this ability to use this quality also in the blood donation actions. There they can be used usefully. That is what the Blood Commission in the Ministry of Health sees. As has been said, the definition of suitability will continue in the future through standardised, well-defined anamnese arches. Doctors, of course, play a major role in the background. The mobile blood donation operations are equipped with semi-automatic defis and of course also with emergency medical cases. So security – that is what you see, ladies and gentlemen – is still our supreme command. I want everyone and everyone in Austria, who needs a blood canned, to receive it. I would like to thank the thousands of blood donors on this occasion, who will be able to do so and, hopefully, will do so in the future. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[19:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27407	The application was presented in the main guidelines and is under negotiation. Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27431	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's really hard for me now. Although we are in election season, I am personally disappointed with the remarks made by the free health speaker. I am really sorry that Norbert Hofer is not here, because I believe that he would not support this, namely these statements and all the things that have been told now, and this misrepresentation that has come through to people who in Austria do the most valuable daily work in the field of health and health care. [[Abg. Schimanek: What are you talking about now?]] That was so embarrassing! I'm really disappointed about what happened. Short to the history: The Austrian Red Cross comes to us and says: We have to cancel blood donations because it is no longer possible to find doctors who also care for them. In Austria, please do what works all over the world or what works in all developed European countries: Let us tighten the standards and entrust the elevated service of health and health care to this responsible activity! Instead of saying that the criteria remain the same, we do what works across Europe, also in Austria, work out common solutions, today we are sending out some fearsome press releases. Instead of thanking the thousands of people who donate blood and the Red Cross, you go here today and do two things: One is afraid for party-tactic reasons and – which is much worse – one says to all nurses in Austria: What works across Europe, what your colleagues across Europe can do, you can't! You are mentally unable! - That's so embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is so embarrassing that, after two years of doing nothing, one has not improved working conditions, in the field of care has not even done anything in the first place – nothing has happened at all –, today does not say thank you to these people, to do the most valuable work in the hospital bed, in operating rooms! It's embarrassing that you're still insulting these people! [[Abg. Schimanek: What are you talking about?]] Then Norbert Hofer, who is always talking about care, has to tell the nurses in Austria that he does not consider them capable. You believe that the Austrian nurses are not able to do something that works across Europe. I find this really embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: What are you talking about?]] Finally, I would like to say: This motion for a resolution, which is being tabled today, is twice as strange. We have already made all these strict regulations. We have no problem at all with the motion for a resolution. We're happy to be there. However, I may ask that, even if election campaign is, the people who donate blood in Austria are not unsure, not telling any robber's stories and claiming that the foreigners are guilty – this has finally come to the end. [[Abg. Schimanek: such a fool!]] It is really embarrassing that you now have to argue in this way in the election campaign. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is quite embarrassing, but it is not possible to discredit the nurses who are doing such a great job in Austria and to give such a speech for party-tactical reasons shortly before the election! That's incredible!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27537	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27559	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! A joint request drawn up under the contents of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will now be put to the vote. An essential point of impact is the departure from the pronounced medical center in the Austrian health system. There is God thanks to many members of other health professions, who are also highly qualified and do very good, important work. They will be more effective if they are allowed to play out their skills fully. This is an example of blood donation. It is a good occasion, for tomorrow is the day of wound. There might also be many very well-trained nurses, who have excellent knowledge in wound management, in this area perhaps even know more than some doctor. However, when treating the sick, they are always dependent on medical regulations. They must also not charge against the health insurance fund independently. There would be a lot to do. We could also make greater use of the health knowledge of pharmacists in the field of advice or vaccination. In addition to the blood donation service, there are still many opportunities to better use the many well-trained families of various health professions in the sense of the insured and the patients. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this example. Let's keep working on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27589	Mrs. Zarfl. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27610	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to comment briefly on this initiative. The clarifications made in close consultation with the experts of my home, which are now in place in the amendment proposal, make sense because they clarify that this expansion of the field of activity of qualified health staff is now taking place in future in mobile blood donation facilities. The stationary area remains unchanged, as has been the case so far. That's important. There is no question that the activity of blood loss in the blood donation is carried out by the qualified staff, but in the sense of the quality assurance of the medicinal product obtained, the blood donation has proved itself – and this is one of the bearing pillars of the Austrian blood donation since the end of the 1990s – that one pays attention to the health condition of the Austrian blood donors and makes certain exclusions from risk factors through a detailed statement of the donors. This activity has so far been reserved for doctors and should be carried out by doctors. The proposal for an initiative now before us will be accompanied by an adjustment of the blood donor regulation, which is already in preparation in my house and, if the decision is taken today, will be reviewed relatively quickly, so that we will have regulations which will then provide for standardised questionnaires in the mobile field of algorithms, for the qualified staff to be available in a uniform manner throughout Austria, by which the health fitness of the donor can be checked. No one calls into question the qualifications of qualified staff for the implementation of the donation, but it needs a certain but comprehensive review of whether a donor is healthy enough to carry out the blood donation, or not. And in these cases, it is also important that, in the event of doubt, The doctor can be advised by the qualified staff. Let's say it again. The regulation, which has been addressed, will go very quickly from my place of business to review. If the votes are to be taken quickly, we expect the regulation to be announced in November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27648	Mrs Diesner-Wais has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27669	Madam President. Ministers! Everyone is happy when healthy blood flows through his veins in sufficient form. But sometimes this is not the case. This is what we see from the fact that we need 350 000 blood canned every year – that means, as my colleague has already mentioned, a canned every 90 seconds. For many vital operations a blood canal is required, and in the event of an emergency, it can really become the most important drug. The Red Cross carries out thousands of mobile blood donations. I would really like to thank you for this, because it can guarantee a complete supply of blood canned in Austria. A thank you, however, especially the blood donors for their voluntary and free life-saving blood donations, because they are essential for the general public, for the comprehensive care, they are simply life-saving. We've heard it too: There is a danger of bottlenecks. Above all, the Austrian Red Cross already reminds us of the fact that the blood can be scarcely preserved. Especially in the eastern region, some blood donation dates have to be cancelled or dropped out because there are too few doctors available. This condition is unbearable because no one wants to be guilty and bear the responsibility if a transplant cannot take place because there are too few blood canned. The admission to the blood donation is due to a standardized questionnaire – I already had such a one – that can be used. [[Keeping a document in height]] In the mobile sector, this survey will also be possible in the future by qualified health personnel. We see it on positive examples also in other countries. It works well in Switzerland and Finland. Whoever fears that there will be insoluble medical incidents, I would like to say that over the past 25 years, five million blood donors have been in the blood donors' centers in Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, where there has not been a single life-threatening event. And as I said, In case of serious illness, a doctor can and should always be taken. That is why we want to implement this in the sense of security of supply in Austria, so that sufficient blood can be available, because the best health care for our citizens – in serious cases and otherwise – is especially important to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27715	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law contained in Amendment 927/A by Mrs Schwarz, Mr Kucher, Mr De Kecher. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schwarz, Mr Kucher, Mr Loacker, Mr Loacker, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Schwarz, Mr Kucher, Mr Loacker, Mr President, have tabled an amendment on paragraphs 1 to 3. Whoever agrees to this request, I ask for a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Povysil, fellow Members, on the "compulsory standardised anamnese for blood donation". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – That is unanimous, accepted. (E 113) [[19:37:52]] 15. Point Request by Mr Ing. Maurice Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on more controls on the transport of live animals to prevent unnecessary animal suffering (566/A)(E) 16. Point Request by Mr Ing. Maurice Androsch, colleagues on withdrawal of the authorisation of transport companies for animal transport (814/A)(E) 17. Point Request by Mr Ing. Maurice Androsch, colleagues on animal transport reduction plan (763/A)(E) 18. Point Request by Mr Ing. Maurice Androsch, colleagues with regard to a castration obligation for all cats held with free access to nature (“Free movement cats”) (986/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27836	We now come to points 15 to 18 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to applications 566/A(E), 814/A(E) and 986/A(E), the Health Committee became a deadline for reporting to 4. ==References== As regards the application 763/A(E), the Agriculture and Forestry Committee had a period of time for reporting to 4. ==References== I have no wish for an oral report. The first speaker is Mr Strasser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27870	Madam President. My precious women's ministers! Today we are talking about the transport of live animals in Austria and – with a small aspect – also in the European Union. Introduction to the achievements of Austrian agriculture: We produce food of the highest quality and we ensure the beautiful Austrian landscape. If you mate food and landscape in rural practice, it is necessary that there are farm animals and animals – cattle, pigs, poultry or horses, for example – and I can tell you: In good agricultural practice, it is illustrated that our animals should be well for ethical and economic reasons and that it is our daily mission – that of a farmer or a farmer – to ensure that the animals at the farm are well. What is the European Union's mission? – We should produce healthy food, we should produce these healthy foods in sufficient quantity and quality, and we should design appropriate prices for farmers on the one hand, but also for consumers on the other. This mandate from the European Union and the public in Europe calls for us. Animal transport is also regulated in the European Union, and I can report that: There is the animal transport regulation, and there is a system, a monitoring system that, for example, monitors long-distance transport across Europe, so that our animal transports are ultimately well documented. [[Abg. Vogl: No Golden Plating!]] Now to the animal transport in Austria: We have relatively strict national rules. I am allowed to mention, for example, a maximum length of 4.5 hours or a 30 degree limit, especially when it comes to exports to third countries such as Turkey. There are also relatively strict controls. In 2016, 152 000 checks were carried out, with 1,400 cases taking place – that is 0.9 percent – and from 2015, we know that about half of these concerns were purely bureaucratic problems with the records. I may sum up as follows: The controls work quite well, there are concerns to a relatively small extent, and the transport companies generally adhere quite well to the given legal regulations. It is important to us, however, that we maintain the confidence between producers and consumers, trust in our production methods, and wherever there can be improvements, that we are happy to do so. Mr Androsch has tabled a request, and on this request 566/A(E) I can table an amendment with the following text: Total amendment tabled by Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection is invited to prepare the national control plan in such a way as to increase the number of road controls, especially in long-distance slaughtering." I believe that our request is a major extension of the request made by Mr Androsch, and I would like your approval. – Thank you very much and very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[19:43]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27973	The proper application is under negotiation. Mr Androsch has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e27997	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A lot of what Mr Strasser said now is to be shared. Agriculture produces high quality animal food, and we want to continue to do so in the future. This is important, because we have also expressed our support for the biotransmitter in the past, for more animal welfare at European level. We have expressed our support for the common agricultural policy, the promotion of the second pillar, so that we can bring even more animal welfare to Austria and the European Union and, accordingly, provide support to farmers who would like to do so in order to enable them to turn this towards more organic, better production of food, meat and meat products. I agree. I cannot entirely agree with you on one point, Mr Commissioner. You mentioned that there are a lot of controls in Austria – that is true, there is much control in animal transport: loading, unloading and transport – and you mentioned how few excesses and how few transgressions there are. However, if you look at the figures in detail, you can see that some 1,000 checks are carried out on road transport per year, but around a quarter of them are concerned. And there are not, as it may be, only issues that are purely formal, but there are serious violations of the animal transport law, and this leads to animal suffering. You have to address this quite openly, and you have to devote yourself to this subject quite openly. That is what we have done, we have looked at it very carefully, and that is why our request is also focused on it – and I have not only submitted one, I have tabled four requests under these agenda items, which we are also discussing in this block. Three applications focus on animal transport and animal transport controls. We have appropriate approaches that I will explain below. Because agriculture produces excellent food and is good in terms of animal welfare, it is important to us that we do not lose this animal welfare and the quality at the end of the journey. I am someone who comes from the police himself and has also carried out animal transport checks, so I know the subject and know that there are very good violations and serious excesses. We saw this in Vorarlberg and we saw it in Salzburg. Therefore, we have three approaches: The first is to provide for more controls, but not just priority controls, but more comprehensive controls on Austria's roads, to significantly increase the number of such controls – not at some point in time, but now – and to instruct the Minister to adapt the control plans for the next few years. This is important to put a sign here. One can do calm control of the focus, against which I am not speaking, but we must not believe that we can lose sight of the far-reaching controls and do not need to carry out controls because everything is all right. I have recently talked to representatives of the Cattle Breeding Association, and they have confirmed to me that it is even important for them to be controlled on the area as a whole, because we can then also prove that it works well on Austrian land, national transport, but not in international transport. Nevertheless, we need these controls. The next point is that we have to go about sanctioning black sheep in the animal transport area accordingly. It is necessary for us to be aware that at European level we must also work to ensure that, if there are serious violations, the licence for animal transport is completely withdrawn from the entire European Union several times, more than twice. This is an important contribution to this – and not to discussing the fact that we will eventually be happy to do something about it. That must happen now. An important contribution to this is that we make an animal transport reduction plan – Mr Köstinger knows this, we discussed it in the committees – that within the next five years – and it is important to have this deadline so that the voters and voters can finally determine whether the measures that have been put forward fit and actually led to a reduction – with support for agriculture, by showing new opportunities and marketing opportunities, by strengthening regionality, regional marketing and thus by addressing agriculture and small farms. This is particularly important. We cannot look away from this, and we must not push this issue to the long-term stage, but we must make it quite clear. As a last request, I have tabled those on the subject of cascade. We know that free running cats multiply many times. In four years alone, a free-going cat couple – colleague Riemer nodds – can produce more than 2,000 boys. When this happens uncontrolledly, it creates animal suffering, on the one hand, because the cats suffer from disease, disease, and then suffer from disease – we don't want it – and on the other hand, because – and this is a nature conservation and environmental approach – the bird world is heavily burdened by it, because one of the main nutrients of the cats are naturally birds, but we also need them in the field of songbirds. Therefore, I would ask you to give our motions for resolutions to bring more animal welfare into animal transport and to make substantial progress on the issue of cat cascatration, contrary to a previous legislative novel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28049	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28086	Madam President. Appreciate women ministers! My dear friends in the plenary! We have four motions for resolutions on these agenda items today. One of them is Mr Androsch's motion for a resolution 814/A(E) concerning the withdrawal of the authorisation of carriers for animal transport. In principle, the content of this request is questionable, but I believe that the problem of data flow within the European Union is. I would therefore like to make a practical amendment to this motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: Total amendment tabled by Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl, colleagues The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection is invited to work at EU level for the timely submission of a revision of the EU Animal Transport Regulation by the European Commission, thereby ensuring a regular review of the approval requirements of approved vehicles for animal transport. In addition, those infringements which lead to the permanent withdrawal of the authorisation for animal transport shall be determined." Secondly, I would also like to say a few sentences on the issue of cascades. Mr Androsch, this right of cat castration already exists; there are only exceptions to breeding cats, and they must be tilted and entered into a database. This is to be read in the animal husbandry regulation in item 2 (10). Now, in your opinion, there are only two ways: either to castrate the breeding cats – that this is not a very practical and sensible solution, it will probably be recognizable for a layman – or, then, to keep breeding cats without access to nature within its own four walls – we do not want to do so, I believe. In my view, we do not need any change. And as far as the number 2 000 is concerned, this may happen in the mice, I do not believe in the cats. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] And since we have discussed a lot about transparency and money flows today, I would have two more questions. The first question is addressed to Mr Pilz, who is: How does Dr. Balluch finance his election campaign? He is running fourth in the JETZT list and has very, very close connections to the VGT, which finally has a donation of 1 million euros a year. So I ask you to answer the question: How does he finance himself? The second question goes towards SPÖ: I am interested in the flow of money around the Tierquartier Wien. There are also 5 million euros, donations to the municipality of Vienna. Perhaps Mr Leichfried can listen and clarify this flow of money. [[Call the SPÖ:Are we here in Vienna's Landtag, or what?]] If he can't, I wonder why he's so critical of everyone else and has no answer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am interested in the answers to these two questions, and in the end I can say: We, the ÖVP, want the animals to be fine. We want an animal welfare policy that gives incentives. We want to do persuasion work, and we want practical laws. I think we have worked well in the past, and we want to do so in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[19:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28182	The amendment just tabled has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Riemer has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28206	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Eßl was very verbal, as always, and he spoke here, of course, in the sense of animal welfare. What does animal welfare mean? – So animal welfare certainly does not mean animal transport; this is a marketing gag that we all invent. It can't even be. In fact, however, it is about animal welfare. I believe that in Austria there must be a great deal of effort to promote good animal welfare. But whatever I forbid, of whomever – I have already operated animal welfare, I have not yet been in politics, and I will also carry on animal welfare outside politics – is that the It is then designed by various associations in such a way as to reject requests for deadlines because of their complexity and not to say: Yes, we make that a law today! and with it goes and a group – whether it be farmers or other people from civil society – is disadvantaged. Please, some things in animal protection must also be discussed, discussed with experts, because if everything was so simple, we also do not need an animal welfare law. – This is once the first point towards all those who believe to be self-proclaimed judges over other animal protectors. But I would like to thank all those who come together on the subject of animal protection, because animal welfare has nothing to do with a political world view. It is indeed about compassionate beings – that has not been mentioned today. That is why I am of course pleased that Mr Androsch has tabled a number of proposals which articulate at least the subject of animal welfare. In one case, it is about animal transport, about the transport of live animals. On the first request, we have already heard it, it is about the checks whether they take place on the spot, on the road or at the end of the destination. His discussion was: on the street. – Please, if you just take the road alone, you have to say: Checks are enough. We have also heard from Mr Strasser that in many cases checks on the road are really about issues such as the writer or other shortcomings, and we must also say that. As regards the question of whether this can be done in a comprehensive way: Friends, there is no practice and practical experience! Who's going to do that? Where's the police coming from? How does that look? If we focus today on the control of animal transport, then two to three police officers must go there. What if no animal transporter comes by? If one travels from Graz to Liezen today – the district of Liezen is as large as Vorarlberg – how do you imagine it? Do we have the police trained to do this? - No! We don't even find cops who would do that because they wouldn't stand it mentally and nervously. They wouldn't stand it. What if an animal had to be slaughtered on site? What if the animals need to be unloaded if anything happens? How do you take people from? - It's not that simple. It belongs to the equipment – please, not just say something like that, but look at reality! Whoever observed animal transports, was there – I was there – who knows: One will be checked for 2 hours and 20 will drive to the slaughterhouse. So how do we want to do that? And if we have some wrongs today – please, we still have millions of animals that are transported. This is a thing of impossibility. So the idea with focus controls is not quite that easy to reject. The other point, of course, is also the withdrawal of approval – yes, to which we will agree – in case of serious or serious violations. What I like is the applicant's request to define what is a serious violation. Yeah, that can be a lot. Whether to take the license away forever, whether for a few years, this is a different story, because in the EU regulation – I like to read it – it is necessary to ensure that the animals are fed and watered – yes, that is important once – and that the companions have a training. Please, this is also amended in the EU Regulation: 8-hour course, and then they all know how it is. - So, let's wait. The next point is a reduction plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we will agree, but how will this be reduced? The demand for meat in Austria is increasing: 60 kilos of pigmeat per person, 90 kilos, I think, in total per capita and year. How do you want to do that? 5 million slaughtered pigs, 2.5 million still from abroad: 7.5 million pigs! How do you want to reduce the journeys? The need for pork is constant. Do we want to ban people from cutting their pieces? - No, we don't want to, I say that even as a vegetarian. No, we don't! Everyone has the right, we have heard that to get the best possible food, to get healthy food! However, despite all the compromises we have to make, we get them mainly from our domestic producers. Today we also have the catcastration as the theme: Yes, this request is important, and I am delighted. I greatly appreciated Mrs Oberhauser, but unfortunately she fell down there. This is a dilemma: If you say we have about 1.5 million wild cats in Austria – there are about so many domestic cats, we say between 1.2 or 1.5 million – then 600,000 of them are female cats. Each cat mama brings four cat children to the world twice a year. If only two cats survive, this is a population of 1.2 million wild cats per year. That's a dilemma that needs to be solved, we have to take control of whether it's about the songbirds or something else. Or do we all want to answer that when we walk, there are corpses of little cat babies? – I was told, you take the cat babies and drown them! Yes, there is also, that is quite simple, for example, in rural farms – not all, but some do. Or they say: Take the cat and cut it against the wall! Please, you have to look at reality! What do you think all the cats are landing? – Or the cities will disfellowship them in the South Styria, and then they will come to us, small, half starved. The Austrian animal welfare associations can provide 20 000 to 30 000 cats – of over one million! There has to be a quick intervention – no matter what! It's a plague. There is really a lot to be done for animal protection on the one hand, but also for human protection on the other. I say thank you very much for the attention; but please: Animal Protection – not animal welfare as a marketing gag! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28265	Mr Lindinger is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28287	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! If we are discussing these four proposals here, the question for me is: Who are the real animal protectors? Is it the representatives of NGOs who sit somewhere in Vienna in their air-conditioned offices on the desk and have no idea of a practical attitude and tell us how to keep the animals? Or are it our farmers, who know how to keep the animals in line, who take care of the animal's health every day? A saying is 100 percent: If the animals are okay, the farmers are fine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are discussing the proposals on animal transport today, I would like to refer to the TOP 17 request. There are also areas in the EU, including in the EU regions such as North Africa or the Middle East, where there is no adequate self-sufficiency with food and raw materials of animal origin and where, from a policy point of view, it is necessary to help and improve the situation on the ground, such as after animal diseases, after wars, with the export of farmed and farmed animals to these regions. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing is clear with all transports: The goal is always to preserve healthy and unharmed animals until the destination is reached. That is why I should like to make the following amendments as a whole: Total amendment by Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl, Members of Parliament, on the motion for a resolution by Mr Androsch, Mr Ecker, Mr Preiner, Mr Genossus on animal transport reduction plan (763/A(E)) The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism is invited to develop a concept for strengthening regional production (in particular the production of veal in Austria) and thus the creation of domestic value in order to reduce the number and duration of animal transport.” Ladies and gentlemen, I think one thing is quite clear: Every and every one here inside and in whole Austria has it in hand. If you buy food in the supermarket, ask yourself the question: Do I grab hold of regional food or do I grab hold of imported foods that have been on the road for hours or a much longer time and also cause a corresponding CO2 emissions? A recent example of this because the food trade is always advertising with Austrian food, but it should also support and support the Austrian farmers: Last week I saw apples from South Africa in a supermarket – now in the apple main harvest season in Austria. That can be it, please, not. Everyone and everyone taking part in regional food will support domestic value creation, support the welfare and protection of animals and also support the fight against climate change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank all consumers who make their contribution to buying the local products, but above all I thank the farmers who produce the highest quality food every day. I think one thing is quite clear: There is only one party behind the rural area and behind agriculture – on 29.9. ÖVP, Sebastian Quickly tick! - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[20:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28422	The request, which has just been duly submitted, is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28449	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The question we have to answer is: How do we keep up with the animal transports? – We agree with the three requests for an increase in the controls on live animals transport, the withdrawal of the authorisation of transport undertakings which do not comply with the rules of the game, and on an animal transport reduction plan. I would, however, like to refer to a subject on this issue, namely: How much do we cause unnecessary animal transport? There are already central elements. The first element is that we simply contribute to the production and transport of certain agricultural products across Europe and beyond, through a flat-rate support of agriculture and the misguided promotion of individual agricultural products, i.e. through tax money. This also concerns the transport of live animals. A simple example from our point of view is that the second pillar of European agricultural support is more used to stimulate regional and environmental sustainable production – I am not talking about organic production, but about sustainable production – in the country. It is also a question of opening up possibilities that would be technically feasible at any time today, which could also be fully useful in terms of animal welfare or animal welfare, but not yet by law, such as mobile slaughters. It is much easier to carry out a slaughter at the place of animal husbandry under certain conditions than to transport the animals before and across the country. These would be opportunities we can discuss. There is also a second element, namely the question not only of animal welfare and regionality, but also of environmental sustainability. Why is it often cheaper to transport beef from one end of the world to the other end of the world, for example, than to produce it regionally? - Because we don't like pollution. In our NEOS model, in which we call for the tax revolution and for the relief of all citizens who are paying income tax even today, we also provide that we relieve the environment by using a fair price for CO2. Such a price would also result in fewer transports, because the forest quadruple cattle is then suddenly more attractive from the price than perhaps some beef that comes from further on. That is, when we talk about animal transport, we are talking about using the house mind and using agricultural support in such a way that we actually promote regional production and cycles, and we are talking about how we act ecologically as a state. The consumer and the consumer must and should continue to have the free choice, but the tax money should not be used in such a way that we cause unnecessary animal transport. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28490	The next item is Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28511	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies on the government bank! Appreciate listeners! Yes, we have put animal welfare back on the subject, and that is good, and it will remain that way for a long time, because if you look more closely behind the scenes, when you look at what is done with animals, not only in Austria, but in Europe, then a really bad thing is happening. There are disgusting conditions that prevail in animal factories, cruel conditions that often prevail in animal transports. That is why it is extremely important for us to deal with it here in Parliament. The conditions are so horrendous that my colleague and animal protection spokesperson of the Social Democrats today makes four requests to improve animal welfare in order to reduce unnecessary animal transport and better control animal transport and also to prevent violations accordingly. This is basically good, I support it, and I am pleased that there should be progress here. Unfortunately, these are just motions for resolutions. Despite everything, I think we should do this, we should take these steps forward, and perhaps some sort of decision will come to achieve improvements together in the sense of animals and in the sense of animal welfare. But even this little opportunity, this tiny chance and this tiny light view for tormented animals, the Austrian People's Party is already at risk enough. I am really surprised that, with so-called changeable amendments, by Franz Eßl, the Federal Farmer's Officer, together with colleagues, we are making sure that animals in this country simply do not get a chance at all. Instead of protecting animals, you argue that you want to protect the profits of the animal industry. I really consider this to be embarrassing for a so-called animal protection speaker. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] In particular, I would like not to let the Freedom Party, which is also happy to position itself as a Animal Protection Party and market itself in this way, pass through this fraud against the animals – quite honestly. To the outside, you say that you are in favour of animal welfare, and then you, Mr Riemer, reject all animal welfare applications. It is only a matter of accepting a deadline request, and even that is not the case! In order for the people outside to know what a deadline request is: It is about setting a deadline to deal with a subject so that it can be discussed at all – but not even the discussion is allowed! That is why, in order not to allow this fraud on animals to continue, I would like to make three further requests for deadlines on the following: Application 854/A: Prohibition of killing male chicks to maximize profits; Application 877/A: Prohibition of intoxication-free piglets castration; Application 878/A: Prohibition of whole flooring in pig farming with a transitional period of ten years. To clarify: If you agree with these deadline proposals today, Mr Riemer, then we have the opportunity to discuss them and next week, on 25 May. September to vote in plenary on it and to make it a law. But if you do not agree, if you do not even agree to the deadline today, then you, Mr Riemer, are sometimes responsible for 9.7 million chicks, who are in Austria every year immediately after slipping – they are not even 1 minute in the world! – fall into a shredder and be shredded by a conveyor belt, or gassed depending on how funny you are right now. [[keeping a photo of chicks in height on a conveyor belt]] [[keeping a photo of chicks being shredded in height]] All this is happening in Austria: 9.7 million times! To agree to this deadline would only mean that we can discuss it and decide a law next week; but not even the discussion you want! They are also responsible for the pain suffered by a piglets if they are cut off with full consciousness, without anaesthetics the genitals, the testicles, – without anaesthetics! –, an intoxicated castration carried out! [[keeping a photo of the castration of a piglets in height]] [[Abg. Strasser: With painkillers!]] All this is happening in Austria and is being made up-to-date. Every 12 seconds, day and night, there is an intoxicated piglets castration. That's not a condition! That can't be the way we deal with living beings! Another thing: They are also responsible for hundreds of thousands of pigs living for months – the short time they are allowed to live – in the ammonia tank, with wounds, injured, bleeding, gnawing each other, the ears, the tails chew, because they are so fat on full-cut concrete floors because they have no straw, no looting. [[keeping a photo of a pig lying on a whole-column floor in height]] You are responsible for all of this if you even reject these deadline proposals today in order to prevent any debate on it. To conclude again: Today, I have sent you all, ladies and gentlemen, an e-mail asking you to think about how you will vote today. And all those who run to church every Sunday, and all those who always attend the parliamentary prayer breakfast, I would also like to ask: Ask yourself if your God wants us to deal with the creation and the living being in this land in this way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28564	Next item is the report by Mr Erwin Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28588	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watcher at home in front of the televisions! I would like to start with a brief quote: “Approximately 360 million cattle, pigs, sheep and goats, and more than a billion poultry are on the road every year as part of nearly 400 000 animal transports.” According to the latest data, Austria has imported about 18 million animals and exported 7.8 million, with nearly 14 million of the animals imported being poultry intended for slaughter. In other words, these also receive the AMA seal in Austria. The question is: Are our standards, the standards of the EU, but also the national standards, also complied with outside the EU? We have seen a lot of photo material before, and I would say: absolutely not! Ladies and gentlemen, animal transport – I believe that this is a contradiction in itself. Infringements against the Animal Transport Directive are hardly detected, and this has already been shown to the Ministries. It is therefore essential that an animal transport reduction plan is drawn up, that a law for less animal transport at national level, of course also in agreement with the relevant EU authority, is put in place, because many animal transports within the European Union, which carry animals across and across Europe, are carried out only for the simple reason to make even higher profits. Let's reject this. It's different. Ladies and gentlemen, violations of animal welfare naturally bring more animal suffering. What do the alternatives look like? – I think there is a lot of alternatives, because here in Austria, the farmers, the peasant family farms are doing very good work when it comes to breeding, when it comes to the attitude of calves, of pigs. At this point I thank the farmers for their valuable work. We must also focus on the European Union. Unfortunately, Mrs Köstinger is not here now, which in the past has failed to work in the course of the ongoing CAP period to increase funding for more regionality, for more direct marketing, but also for more organic farming also in the area of animal husbandry, in the field of meat production. This is something that the peasant family farms also have something to do with. This is very important in order to have the income as well. We must also look for the future – the CAP negotiations for the new EU financial period 2021 to 2027 have already begun – that we are putting the focus in this direction. I also thank the EU Subcommittee for taking the decision that Austrian representatives at EU level should not agree to the Mercosur Agreement. Finally, it is also a question of producing more CO2 in the EU through additional animal imports from the Mercosur countries to Austria. We reject this, and this is also a sustainable measure for CO2 reduction and also a sustainable measure, ladies and gentlemen, for more climate protection, for more environmental protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to ensure that environmental protection works more sustainable and better in the future than in recent years, I demand a separate Ministry of the Environment for the future legislative period. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28637	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Bißmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28659	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate women ministers! In 2015, a total of 1.4 billion live animals were transported in the EU. Member States also exported 238 million live animals across the EU's external borders. These are figures based on your own calculations of the German Bundestag. Apart from the fact that the animals are driven through the area in climate-damaging trucks, live animal transports are animal torture. The animals are compressed in the narrowest space, the space scarcity alone can lead to disturbances in the air circulation and endanger the life of the animals. Yes, during animal transport animals die, many animals die. In addition, it should also be noted that the maximum duration of animal transport is not defined in the EU animal transport regulation. The animals die from high or low ambient temperatures that result in overheating or cold damage, or they dehydrate or starve through irregular feeding during transport. These are just a few examples of the inconceivable suffering of animals. In addition, in female transport animals, births are not rare during the journey. The animals suffer from loading to discharge stress not only psychologically, but also physically damage. The EU animal transport regulation actually forbids the transport of injured animals – the animals hurt themselves, they die – but there is this daily. How is that possible? – Simple: It's not being controlled enough. For this reason, I support all three SPÖ applications which will lead to more stringent controls; first of all: ‘Controls of the transport of live animals to prevent unnecessary animal suffering’; second request: ‘The withdrawal of the authorisation of transport undertakings for animal transport’; third, ‘animal transport reduction plan’. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to encourage you to sign the popular desire for animal welfare, which calls for the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28690	Mr Markus Vogl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28711	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Mr Lindinger said: “It’s good for the animals, it’s good for the farmers”, and the farmers already know what’s good for the animals. – I believe that the discussion has shown that, as long as there is a complete gap in pig farming, it cannot be assumed that these animals are going well. That is why we need stricter regulations, and that is what we always demand. Mr Riemer says that this is an insanity and asks how it is to be controlled, and ultimately millions of animals are on the road. – This is precisely what this request is about: We want a reduction in animal transport, the transport of live animals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are always talking about strengthening regional value chains, and this is exactly what it is all about. But this is only possible if you have a reasonable designation of origin. For example, we have the Gailtal bacon – protected geographical indication – that is, we know that the piglets do not come from the Gail valley, but otherwise everything, both the mast and the slaughter and the processing, has been made in the Gail valley. That is, short ways to transport the animals are what we want. That this works shows such origin markings, only we as consumers must have the guarantee that we can rely on them. Of course, it also needs animal welfare markings. We are fortunate to have implemented this in the Legängenhalt. We have succeeded in maintaining a label that makes animal welfare visible to us. We know whether the egg comes from open land or land, and we also know, above all, that cage farming is prohibited in Austria. That's what it's all about. We need markings, we need regulations that enable us as consumers to recognize what is produced, where it is produced and under what conditions it is produced. In the past, we have not seen the ÖVP as a partner. It has been much blocked against the will of consumers and also against the will of farmers. I was at the pleasure market in Linz last week: If one sees how many young farmers work hard, build up new forms of living in agriculture, in full acquisition, then this gives a very different picture of agriculture than that which is constantly being preached here by you. We want this very picture of agriculture: a regional agriculture, which is alive, which takes into account animal welfare and in which the consumer has the opportunity to find it on the shelf. One of our demands, which has always been rejected, is: We could also limit these transports if we could enforce that the AMA marking of meat would at last also require genetic engineering freedom, because at least no geneticly modified soya from Brazil could be used. This would be a great improvement for consumers in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28758	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. I ask whether there is a desire for a final word on the part of reporting. - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall take separately from each item on the agenda. Agenda item 15: motion for a resolution 566/A(E) by Mrs Maurice Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘more controls on the transport of live animals to prevent unnecessary animal suffering’. Mr Eßl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a total amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the above-mentioned amendments and on the motion for a resolution 566/A(E) in the event of a rejection. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the amendments tabled by Members Eßl, colleagues and others as a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 114) We shall therefore vote on agenda item 16: motion for a resolution 814/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, fellow Members, on the withdrawal of the authorisation of transport undertakings for animal transport. Mr Eßl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a total amendment. I shall also vote here first of all on the overall amendment tabled and on the motion for a resolution in the event of a rejection. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the amendments tabled by Members Eßl, colleagues and others as a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. That is why we are voting on the motion for a resolution 814/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, colleagues, on the withdrawal of the authorisation of transport undertakings for animal transport. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 115) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: motion for a resolution 763/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Animal transport reduction plan'. Mr Eßl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a total amendment. I shall also vote here first of all on the overall amendment tabled and on the motion for a resolution in the event of a rejection. If you are in favour of the overall amendment tabled by Mr Eßl, my fellow Members, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution 763/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Animal transport reduction plan'. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 116) Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 18: motion for a resolution 986/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘an obligation of castration for all cats kept free access to nature’. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 117) Before we come to Agenda item 19, I would like to return to the fact that we have a very large vote before us on Agenda Points 2 to 10. The Bureau has the vote Croquis, but it is, of course, necessary to go through this complex vote with all the political groups once again. In order to discuss this briefly and to find a common procedure, I would now propose a short stand-alone presidial. I would like to interrupt the sitting briefly and ask all the club chairmen to discuss the further procedure. [[The sitting was suspended at 8.29 p.m. and resumed at 8.32 p.m.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. I would like to thank you for the short standings and announce that the motion 952/A, that is, item 21, has been withdrawn. The numbering of the following items will continue to be maintained for reasons of the better overview. I also announce that it has been agreed that after the negotiations on item 20, we will vote on Agenda items 2 to 10. [[20:32:46]] 19. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Bruno Rossmann, colleagues on Austria's negotiations on international cooperation to preserve the rainforests through compensatory payments to the land owners (932/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28931	We reach the 19th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of up to 12 years has been allocated to the Environment Committee for reporting. September 2019 set. I do not have the wish for an oral report. We are going into the debate. Mr Johannes Jestingenschlager is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e28968	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal and the requests for this item on the agenda are concerned with whether we should participate in international cooperation to preserve the rainforests through compensatory payments to real estate owners. I think it is an important sign that Austria, in its international context, should also act on the preservation and protection of the rainforests. If, as is the case with many UN declarations, this takes place within the framework of international cooperation, we will also do so. But we should not make a mistake, namely to believe that we can protect the rainforest by coming there or there with the money. We should also look at the causes of the destruction. We know that a main cause is agricultural production along the equator, whose products go partly to Asia and Africa, where there is a food supply far below our limits. There the need will not be reduced, so we will not be able to reset it completely. But we also need to solve our tasks. I think that we are in the process of replacing fossil energy sources with renewables. At the same time, we mix products with palm oil in Europe instead of using domestic products. We must take our own nose and look at how we can strengthen European production. Because we're just talking about the oilseeds: It won't work without plant protection. One cannot say on the one hand that one wants to protect the rain forest but on the other hand destroy production in Europe. That's where we should become more homogeneous. However, we will also have to be careful to use our own biomass accordingly, especially from the forestry sector. In the forests, the birch beetle calamities have enormous effects, and we do not really encourage producers at the moment when we close Austria's largest biomass heat plant in Simmering in Vienna. Red-Green turns off renewable energies in Vienna, which is unbearable! This will not protect the rainforest and, above all, will not promote the reforestation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will not be able to protect the rainforest either if we shift production from Europe to other continents, because we have only one planet. In other words, we need to make efficient use of our resources, and we cannot constantly promote the expansion of agriculture and overturn our production orders to other continents. But this is happening at the moment and therefore rainforest is wooded. But that also means that we must be consistent in our policy. The debate on the last items on the agenda has shown that some Members clearly do not think of tomorrow, that is to say some of the demands that have come, especially in the field of animal welfare and the production of animal food in Europe. We do not import animal suffering, we do not export animal suffering, but we cause animal suffering on other continents if we do not have ordered production in Austria and Europe. If you want the cage from Uruguay, continue like this! Impossibility of production in Austria! If you really want the fraud against the animals, continue like this! Insecure the farmers in Europe, in Austria, and as a result, you will have even stronger deforestation of the rainforests around the world! If we cannot cover this by our own production, we will not be able to conduct the international climate and environmental debates honestly and ultimately to live with the consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29021	Mr Dr. Klaus Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29042	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Consequences of tomorrow think: My colleague, I will come back to that. I would just like to say that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this motion. We will also make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann, which aims to give our approval to the performance of an appropriate contribution to the first re-fill of the Green Climate Fund, ‘EUR 100 million’. At this point, I would like to remind you again of the dramatic situation in Brazil, which has finally gained due media attention. The deforestation, the burning down of the rainforest has effects that go far beyond the regional population, even beyond the continent. It takes more pressure, more action, more negotiation, and above all more conviction among ourselves that it is urgent to initiate not only a rethinking, but also a different action. I would like to raise a point that has irritated me very much in the last two weeks. In the run-up to the National Councils and the UN Climate Change Conference, the Environment Committee would have needed some discussion with you, Mrs Federal Minister. If you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are already working for the date fixed for months on the 12th. September, due to a stay abroad – which is absolutely okay from our point of view – but also as flexible as possible in finding a new date, I honestly do not understand the position of the ministry, but especially the ÖVP when trying to find an appointment at all. This gives me the impression that although environmental policy is prettiered in times of election, otherwise as much is being set in motion as in the last two years, as little as possible and as late as possible. The same applies to your motion for a resolution on the Green Climate Fund. [[towards ÖVP]] Finally, think about it, act differently! Parliamentaryism and the environment would thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29085	Mr Walter Rauchist. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29110	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In environmental policy, we have not always agreed with you, dear Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, in recent months and years. Although there have been overlaps there or there, about which we have discussed and which we have also discussed, however, we are doing environmental policy with home mind – and this is an essential difference to the SPÖ Group – here we are definitely taking measures that are taken with people and not against people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] This is a consciousness that we also want to move forward and become. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When it comes to the deforestation of rainforests in favour of agricultural production, agricultural land, we are clearly saying that it is necessary to stop. At the same time, we must take care of these food and food imports; and in this respect we are also required to introduce legislative measures and rules that there is no distortion of competition on the one hand with agriculture, but of course also with food producers. Of course, it is an essential factor to preserve these rainforests. This is also important in terms of the environment and nature conservation. We do not share Mr Rossmann's call for 100 million euros to be paid ad hocly to this Green Climate Fund. That's quite different. We also have a different view of the 30 million euros that have now apparently been estimated by the current government. This includes national measures so that we can promote, force and also promote our own, our domestic forests, our forests. In this respect, I shall make a motion for a resolution on the conservation of forest stocks as a natural CO2 sink. The forest stores climate-damaging CO2, it is a producer of environmentally friendly wood raw material, it offers space for relaxation and leisure time. It provides protection against natural disasters. The forest stores water and binds snow. It reduces wind strength and protects the soil from erosion. All of this offers our local forest economy, offering our domestic forests not only in this form. Thus a hundred-year-old beech also produces 4 600 kilograms of oxygen per year. All these natural phenomena offer a lot of positive things, and so we must protect our forests in the area. At the same time, our domestic forests bind 800 million tonnes of carbon, which is 40 times more than what we produce in this country in greenhouse gases. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[20:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29255	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Michael Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29282	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about the rainforest in the Austrian Parliament, I would like to get a little bit more and look at it more closely. First of all, I would like to point out the essential historical component that we must pay attention to when we talk about the fact that we want to dictate to other countries how they should act. In Europe, in the Middle East and in North Africa, over the last 3,000 years, we have managed perfectly to use almost all of our forests themselves. At the moment, it is the case that there are many more primeval forests, mainly along the equator, in Latin America, in the Caribbean, in Africa and, above all, in Indonesia. Those states, quite rightly, say: You have destroyed yourselves and now expect us not to use those resources! – And this understanding must also be taken into account from the historical point of view, especially because these international relationships are often very strained. Especially the European states, which are now also strengthening international climate protection and the protection of the rainforest, such as France, Great Britain, Spain and Portugal, are those who have a burdened historical relationship, for example, with Latin America or with Africa. In this respect, I would like to point out some of the data. In Austrian politics, we are mostly talking about Brazil, because of course the President there is a strong eye on it. But what are the data we're talking about? Since 1970, 800 000 square kilometres of rainforest have been destroyed in Brazil, the Amazon region. This corresponds to about ten times the area of Austria. However, it is only a banality compared to what has happened worldwide. Last year alone, there were 8,000 square kilometres in Brazil. But it was 56,000 square kilometres in Latin America and the Caribbean. There were 40,000 square kilometres in Africa and 39,000 square kilometres in Asia. That is, what we need when we talk about the protection of rainforest is not a leading international policy in which we talk about how someone else should behave, but we need international compensation – and of course it has to be done through the United Nations. From the point of view of NEOS, Austria has, of course, the special role and the special chance that, as a representative of the so-called global north, it will have a role to play in facilitating a colonial past, without the historical burden of a colonial past, in relation to the countries that were colonizing at that time and the global south. This requires not only a negotiation, but also an instrument that Austria has already ratified in 2016, namely the Green Climate Fund. We are talking in climate policy every day about the measures we can take to prevent CO2 emissions that we can save on CO2 emissions. We are talking far too little about those opportunities and measures that allow an active policy with which we can really save CO2. Due to its soil, a rain forest saves significantly more CO2 than a classical forest. Therefore, from our point of view, it would be more logical not only to talk about how to take measures to prevent emissions through a CO2 price, but also how to find a form of remuneration for those eco-services that are already taking place in the global south. The Green Climate Fund was an essential instrument so that we could adopt this global climate agreement in Paris in 2015. However, the Austrian Federal Government under Türkis-Blue has never tried to solve this part with a great seriousness. This is an important point on my part to conclude: If we really want to protect the rainforest, the world-wide forest, we want to protect it, then there is a need for serious international negotiations in which we find an economic, an economic balance, because we cannot on the one hand demand that we do not repeat our mistakes, and on the other hand we demand that the economic benefits that our states and our societies have drawn from this remediation at that time remain with others. Let us therefore make a clear commitment to an active climate policy, a clear commitment to a payment of EUR 100 million to the Green Climate Fund. This was already planned in 2015. This was also planned in 2016 when we ratified the Paris climate agreement in Austria. It is clear to us NEOS that we also hold international agreements that we conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29326	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29350	Madam President. My lady, my lord on the government bank! High house! This motion for a resolution by my group aims to preserve the rainforests and makes a proposal on how this could be done. What I want to achieve is that there are international negotiations on funds for the protection of the remaining rainforests – and I think these negotiations must start as soon as possible, because the situation of the rainforests, especially in the Amazon basin, is more than dramatic and has worsened dramatically since the new President Bolsonaro in Brazil, in particular. The number of redundancies has increased by 50 percent, the fires that are largely due to arsons, and both in the interest of or out of agrogroups' greed, which is only about having additional areas to expand their profits – especially for the meat industry. This was also a matter at the meeting of the EU Subcommittee yesterday, and the debate on it finally led us to make a joint request from Mr Leichtfried and me concerning the Mercosur Agreement and to ask the Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location to speak out against this agreement at EU level. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This was, I believe, a great success, but we must not, as it were, stop taking necessary measures in the environmental field. That is why I would like to begin by seeking support for this motion for a resolution, which the Federal Minister did not know until yesterday. That really surprised me. However, I would now like to draw attention to the Green Climate Fund, which has been discussed several times here. The Green Climate Fund is nothing but a central fund, which, in addition to international climate financing, is also dedicated to the protection and reforestation of deforested areas. It is the main multilateral financial instrument of the Paris Convention. The recovery of this fund is under way. In this regard, in recent days we have heard from the Federal Government that it has to increase the funds from 26 million to 30 million euros so far. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a shame in the light of the fact that comparable countries with Austria are significantly more likely to be in favour of it. Let us take Sweden as an example: Sweden has already paid EUR 580 million, and it is thought that there may be a doubling of the contribution. It is true that the members of the UN world community have set themselves the goal of teaching this fund with 100 billion US dollars. Let us now look at what the appropriate contribution of Austria would be! – The appropriate contribution from Austria would not be 30 million euros, but 200 million euros. That would, as it were, be the minimum amount to be invested in this Green Climate Fund as measured by the wealth of the population. We have now decided to vote – and this also corresponds to the demands of NGOs – for a donation of this Green Climate Fund in the order of EUR 100 million. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's the next weekend. There needs to be spoken of by the Austrian Federal Government or the representative, the representative of plain text. However, we do not have this willingness, and I would like to address the appeal to all the political groups, including the FPÖ and the ÖVP, to agree to the increase to EUR 100 million. I think that the motion for a resolution by the EIA is totally inadequate. In this respect, it is worth mentioning that this contribution should be evaluated for the years 2020 to 2023 and adjusted to take account of the budgetary sustainability objectives. This is a clear rejection of more than 30 million euros. I guess I can't interpret that. In a similar direction, the FPÖ's application goes. She says: Let's concentrate on Austria! Why do we deal with international problems, which is not our topic? – This is a shame for Austria. Let me say once again: We need that! If we want to achieve the Paris climate targets, we need to get a little deeper into the bag, concerted with other countries that have done so. However, we have seen no willingness to discuss these issues in the last few days when the meeting of the Committee on the Environment was initially cancelled because the Minister had an appointment abroad. We then tried to make a new date, but on the one hand he failed with the Minister for the Environment, on the other, but also with those groups who are not prepared to do this Green Climate Fund higher, namely at FPÖ on the one hand and at the ÖVP on the other. This shows the importance of climate change in your political groups. That says, I think, everything. Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[20:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29485	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29513	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the very beginning, I have to protect our Lady Environment Ministers as far as date-setting is concerned, because on the last Thursday for which the meeting was scheduled, our Minister of the Environment in the Czech Republic was the first point to negotiate about Dukovany. Second point: The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. So you can't blame her; and in the next few days she'll be at the climate conference in New York. So this cannot be blamed on our Lady Environment Ministers. I would like to expressly put this forward here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] That climate protection is a global responsibility and, above all, a global challenge, we know and that is indeed so; and therefore, we will also agree with this good request from the JETZT list, namely that of this agenda item. Sometimes one hears in the discussion about climate protection: Well, what does little Austria want to do, it's just – the numbers are voting – 0.22 percent of the world's CO2 emissions to Austria? – 0.22 percent are very little in percentage terms, but yet we have a very urgent duty to take measures to combat climate change and climate change in many different sectors. This is, of course, a mix of international and national measures. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say here that Austria is providing financial assistance for climate protection in various areas in the international context – in total, it is about 180 million euros a year – and only one of them is this Green Climate Fund. A grant of EUR 30 million has now been fixed for the recovery of Austria. It is important not only to be active internationally, but also to take nationally clear measures. It is already surprising if my previous speaker wants to loosen money – that's all right – but for example did not agree when we wanted to extend the duration of support for eco-electric installations. You were against it as well as the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] And this is a contradiction in itself if I block sustainable energy forms in the national action catalogue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What may have happened – that was announced a day before the Ibiza affair – is: Austria is completely out of coal-electricity production. There are very few countries around the world that do not operate nuclear power plants or coal power plants to ensure electricity production. This is also a very, very important contribution to climate protection. During the next legislative period, if the Greens are likely to be back in the house, we will certainly have some discussions, because we have to produce electricity somewhere. In Styria, we have made great efforts to build some new power plants at the Mur, as well as in Graz. And who has stood on site and tried to block the project? – It was the Greens in the Styria. We will have to discuss this even more often, because if you want to produce sustainable energy, you also have to be willing to invest in it and allow new projects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate protection is an international major project. As Austria, we must go ahead with a good example, and so must we. I should also like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to accept this request. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[21:02]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29660	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Doris Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29687	Yes, the rainforest dies and the world dies with it, and with every day we watch without fail, we take our children a chance for a healthy future. To illustrate this, I took a picture with you [[keep the image described below in the form of a drawing in height]] It shows a father with a bag of money that he gives to his son, who carries an oxygen device, an air conditioner. The father says to his son: ‘Here son, I saved all this money for your future’. We can fight in the election campaign, here in plenary about topics and approaches, but, ladies and gentlemen, dear visitors to the gallery and dear people at home, does not the approaching climate disaster leave everything small-carved and minor? – I mean: Yes, it does! We've got to jump into the break for our Earth. We must want the best for our future and for the future of our children, and for that we need effective and social climate policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gödl, you should not point your finger at others, but it takes a lot of people, we all need to fight together and go to ensure that we do so. The earth has fever, and how the situation is increasing more and more, we were able to see more than ever last month, insofar as more than 30,000 fire stoves in the Amazon region were counted alone in August. This corresponds to an increase of 196 percent compared to the same month in the previous year, and every day more than 1 000 – 1 000! – new fire stove for this. I don't think I have to tell you more about the urgent situation in which the world is in, how significant the rainforest is as a CO2 storage, as a green treasure chamber of our planet, and not least as an oxygen supplier. This has been demonstrated and mentioned in detail in recent weeks and months. And if the compensatory payments to land-owners of the particularly endangered woodlands are an opportunity to reduce the redundancies, we must, of course, be in favour of that, because well 70 percent of the redundancies are due to the agricultural sector. The problem is not just about the regions of the Amazon, it concerns the whole world, which is why it is only legitimate for us to work together to preserve the rainforest. Because today on the subject of pensions has already been discussed, which is more important, whether climate protection or human protection, I say: Finally, climate protection is always human protection! You can't play it against each other, you just have to put it on one level. [[Abg. Neubauer: Right! That's it! That's right!]] That's why from our side: Yes, on this request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you also for the No to Mercosur. No free trade agreement shall directly or indirectly support the decommissioning of protected areas, burden people, endanger our high standards and consume our resources for short-term profit. The rain forest burns and with it our future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29739	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask the honourable Members to take up the seats, and we shall come to the vote. [[Calls from the gallery.]] [[Visitors are led by the gallery by members of the Ordinary Service.]] – So, then I will start the voting process again. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Bruno Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Austria’s negotiations on international cooperation for the preservation of rainforests through compensatory payments to the property owners’. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 118) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on the conservation of forest stocks as a natural CO2 sink. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. This resolution has also been adopted by a large majority. (E 119) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Feichtinger, Mr Bernhard, Mr Rossmann, and others on the financing of the Green Climate Fund. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köstinger, colleagues and colleagues on the financing of the Green Climate Fund. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[21:08:10]] 20. Point Request by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Citizenship Act 1985 (State Citizenship Change Act 2018) (536/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29843	It's the 20th time we've reached the 20th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Internal Affairs has been set aside until 4. ==References== There is no wish for oral reporting. I welcome Mr Peshorn and Mrs Bundesminister Stilling. Mrs Angela Lueger is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29881	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria acknowledges its responsibility for the crimes during the Nazi period in citizenship law. For the persecuted, there is and has already been the possibility of obtaining citizenship on the basis of a so-called special acquisition status. But there was no such thing for the descendants, and there is a lot of criticism and often criticism that this is not the case. The initiative on the demand for dual citizenship for descendants of NS victims was introduced in the form of an initiative proposal from our chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner in December of the previous year. Why in December of last year? – I remember very well last year was a great year of commemoration, in which all parties agreed that we would work on this issue here. What happened? – The application has been assigned to the Committee on the Interior, where a draft has already been postponed by the then government parties ÖVP and FPÖ, with the reason that the government parties are already working on a draft and Federal Minister Kickl has already put forward a draft. This draft has not been known to us, nor have we received it. Then the government has exploded briefly on the initiative of Mr. Ex Chancellor – and nothing has happened. There were then three requests for deadlines, three requests for deadlines, but they were so controversial from the content that they could not be decided in the form. That was also the reason – as I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much – for the fact that, since we knew there was no meeting of the Committee on the Interior, there was a discussion at the Ministry, with the request to create a compatible, feasible request from these three requests; we also worked out with the competent authority, which must then act. It was always the goal to achieve a common approach, but that was somehow a difficult point. That is why, even on my initiative, we have once again tried to put ourselves together outside the committee and, in the sense of the persecuted, to find a solution in the sense of descendants. It has succeeded, but I can tell you that we discussed two hours ago to reach an agreement. We are now counting the horse – forgive me the comparison – from behind, because colleague Engelberg will then submit the original amendment proposal. I am now bringing in the far-reaching amendment that concerns the following – I am sorry to read it –: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29950	The Democratic Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e29965	Excuse me, “for the democratic Republic of Austria was subjected to persecution or had to fear persecution.” 2. The following ‘Z 1a’ is inserted after Z 1 of the application ‘1a. According to § 58c Abs. 1a will be: ‘Abs. 1b’ inserted: ‘(1b) ==References====External links== 1a shall also apply to children of election who have been adopted as minors in the child’s place.’; 3rd. The following ‘Z 2a’ is inserted after Z 2 of the application ‘2a. According to § 58c Abs. The following is added: ‘Abs. 5’ inserted: ‘(5) The Authority may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 2. 1 or Paragraph 1 or 2. 1a the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the assessment of the perceptibility of the existence of the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. 1 and para. (a) contribute as experts. For this purpose, the National Fund is authorised to transmit personal data including sensitive data to the applicant and the Authority.’; I hope that, in the interests of the applicants, we have helped the descendants with the knowledge that it will be a huge effort and that it will also be difficult for the authority – the other two requests will then bring together colleagues from this House – but I hope, in spite of this, that they will be very much in agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30137	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. I call Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30161	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Ten days before the National Council election, we are at the height of a election campaign with daily TV confrontations, which are highly stylized by the media as a duel, and now I can talk about a topic that I have felt at our heart – in the difficult but positive negotiations – and also shows us how important it is for politics that, despite all the contrasts, we put the binding before the dividing. Ladies and gentlemen, today we want to implement an important concern of the former Federal Government under the leadership of Sebastian Kurz by deciding on a multi-party request from ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ to be referred to by Mr Martin Engelberg. [[Abg. Easy: Maria, well! You might have to say that you choose him!]] This will also ensure that the descendants of Austrian displaced persons during the period of National Socialism will be granted the right to Austrian citizenship, while maintaining their previous citizenship. Mrs Lueger and all those who may remember the historical development of the last one and a half years and no longer have everything in mind, I would remind you that already in March 2018, within the framework of a Council of Ministers, the mandate to draw up such a law has been carried out and was kept in the Committee on the Interior in February of this year, that a proposal for legislation will be submitted to the National Council in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mrs Lueger's statement, the government has not exploded; it has been chosen by you for incomprehensible reasons. [[Abg. Plessl: No, no, no, that's not true! We have had a majority here!]] Therefore, as the National Council, we want to underline the urgency and importance of this issue now and finally implement this long-term project. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the request of ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ, we also want to place a sign in citizenship law. We want to show respect for the victims and their descendants and, as I agree with Mrs Lueger again, we also want to bear the responsibility for the crimes of the Nazi era and to do away with the injustice that still exists today. With this request, we want to extend the legal situation already in force and facilitate the possible unbureaucratic access to Austrian citizenship also for those descendants who do not live in Austria or whose ancestors have not become Austrian again. However, I am also pleased that we are still making further proposals today, which has already been mentioned, together with the other political groups, with which we are also making further important additions. On the one hand, we take into account all those who had been interned in the concentration camps or similar horrendous institutions, who were unable to escape at all in de facto and who had only emigrated later in the occupation period; and on the other hand, we repair a deeply anti-Semitic decree from 1920, which prevented access to Austrian citizenship for Jews from Galicia de jure. Thus, we repair an injustice against all those who lost citizenship after the emigration and did not receive it back because, for reasons of the persecution by the NSDAP, the return to Austria was no longer possible after 1938. Ladies and gentlemen! Access to the Austrian nationality for descendants of persons displaced during the period of National Socialism is to become reality, taking into account the difficult and extensive preparatory work at the earliest possible time, starting from 1.9.2020. Parliamentary work, ladies and gentlemen, has actually lasted until the end, but it should also be mentioned that it has therefore lasted until the end, because there have been suggestions from various institutions, and this should also be taken into account. This solution is now available, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that it will be widely agreed in the interests of those concerned. I would like to end by thanking all the Members and all the experts involved in the development of a common solution on this occasion, in order to mention the interconnector once again at the end of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really what people want: not to argue, but to find and implement solutions together as a policy. – In this sense, thanks to everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30215	Next: Mr Werner Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30236	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The agenda includes the Citizenship Change Act. I would like to stress that I have nothing to add to my previous speaker Karl Mahrer. I thank you for your statements, which I also fully support. It is about implementing the dual citizenship contained in the government programme for victims of National Socialism. As one recognizes by the mood in the house, that is a unanimous matter. I am also particularly pleased that the many amendments have also reached an agreement in spite of intensive discussion. However, the government programme not only includes this double citizenship, but it could also add to it, because, as we conclude from the political debate, we do not yet know what will happen in England, whether there will also be a double citizenship to the Brexit victims, as I mean, or, as already contained in the government programme, our countrymen in South Tyrol. The question of South Tyrol has been re-ignited in the last few days. We have been allowed to celebrate numerous commemorative celebrations in South Tyrol in the last few days. The most worthy took place in the Tyrolean Landtag, where the 100-year-old separation, the separation from the country of Tyrol, was thought. In South Tyrol itself, deep depression was reported after 1918. It took until 1972 until a statute of autonomy, which really deserved the name, could be enforced, and it took 20 years again until 1992 to file the declaration of dispute with the UN. In the government programme, the ÖVP and the Freedom Party have agreed to now also allow the South Tyroleans double citizenship to grant Austrian citizenship, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank the Austrian People's Party for its support, first and foremost for my dear friend and South Tyrol speaker Hermann Gahr, and I would like to make a total request. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[21:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30350	The motion for a resolution is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Deputies Dr.in Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30378	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and the rulers at home and at the gallery! Last year we started the 100. Next year we celebrate a second anniversary: the 65th anniversary of our Republic. 15th birthday of our State Treaty. In May 1955, it was re-established as an independent and democratic Austria. That's 65 years ago. After the war our country has broken out with the will to close the darkest chapter of our history and write a new one. We went on to build the ruins in the country – with the visible we managed very well, with the invisible only partially, because some actions we missed out or put far too late. Today we can set a little gesture, combined with the hope that it may be seen by those concerned. Today, we are setting a small gesture for those NS persecutors and their descendants who had to leave our country many years ago, but still want to get back into a connection with Austria and have been legally prevented from doing so. How did the constructive cooperation come to be here in Parliament? – With our request made in November 2018, we reminded the government parties of their own commitment from the government programme, because the government parties promised the descendants of Nazi persecution to facilitate the re-establishment of citizenship. As a result, the SPÖ was actively engaged in requests, and now there is an amendment by the three parties which we would have liked to have contributed; but we agree with this as well. The proposal did not go far enough to us when we think of those fellow citizens who, as descendants of citizens of the Danube monarchy, did not have Austrian citizenship, but had their headquarters in the federal territory and who, due to the Nazi regime, were very likely to leave their home. And we also think of those who, due to the persecution, only after the end of the war. They were emigrated in May 1945 because they could no longer walk in Austria because of the follow-up effects of the persecution. We have not yet reached out to all these people; therefore our amendment, which goes on, which also allows the National Fund of the Republic of Austria to be officially included in the procedure. I would like to remind you of the National Fund: It was set up in 1995, 25 years ago, as a body of Parliament, to express the particular historical responsibility of our country. I would like to close with a special thank you, and I thank the Israeli Cultural Community and the Association of Ezra, the Psychosocial Centre of the Israeli Cultural Community of Vienna, which is an important point of contact for Jews. The IKG, Ezra and lawyer Vana have supported us in preparing a comprehensive request. I would also like to thank SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ very much for the final constructive discussions and I am pleased that they even support the request. I do not forget to table the motion for a resolution either. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[21:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30504	The motion for a resolution has been tabled. Mrs Sabine Schatz is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30531	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! "Andre, who didn't love the country so much, was willing to go from the beginning; They – some are already gone – are better, I have to use the right knife. My roots are turning from the earth.” – Theodor Kramer, writer, Austrian, Jew. In 1939, he had to leave his beloved Austrian homeland on the run from persecution by the National Socialists and emigrate to London. This is a fate that he shares with thousands of people in Austria who had to flee Austria and lost their Austrian citizenship. After the end of Nazi fascism, Austria took a long time to remove the myth of sacrifice. It was Federal Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky, who in 1991, 46 years after the end of the Second World War, for the first time officially recognized Austria's co-responsibility with the atrocities of Nazi fascism. Even longer it took time for those persecuted by the Nazi regime to get back the Austrian citizenship they lost by fleeing or evicting or being deprived of them under the Nürnberg Racial Law. Only since 1993 have NS-purchases been able to regain Austrian citizenship, which has often been associated with lengthy and complicated procedures. We will remove these obstacles today and facilitate and ensure access to Austrian citizenship for the descendants of the Nazi persecuted. We see this as a small but important step in reparation, but above all it is a long-standing political responsibility which we bear through our history, a moral commitment and a symbolic gesture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even today we are confronted with open anti-Semitism; I recall the destruction of the portraits of Holocaust survivors at the Burgring in May 2019. Also in the election campaign: Those who constantly use anti-Semitic codes and, for example, speak of silver stone, the well-earned, money-loving Jews, incite resentment against Jews. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This policy, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely dangerous. I appeal to all those who now feel that they are refusing to do so. Let us together bear the responsibility of our history! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30596	Next: Mr Mag. Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30620	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! High house! In fact, I was impressed by the words of my previous speaker until, in the last sentences of her speech on this subject, which I consider to be so important, she also led back to the downfalls in daily politics and the current election campaign. I am not going to do so, I really want to stress the historical importance of this law or of these several applications and also put them in a context, and that beyond the party boundaries, because we are finally looking forward to an all-party proposal and, hopefully, a unanimous decision-making process. If we summarize again: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there were times when one had to be ashamed as an Austrian – ashamed of how Austria has dealt with the past is ashamed of how Austria has dealt with the victims of National Socialism. When I first traveled to Israel alone at the age of 13, my father took me to the airport and said: You, if anyone in Israel asks you where you come from, tell them you're from Switzerland! He knew that as an Austrian in the time – these were the 70s – it will not be well written in Israel. Austria has not faced its past for too long, far too long: the high number of Austrians who committed crimes against Jewish people during the Nazi period, humiliation, robbery, destruction, mass murder. But even the post-war Austria did not boast. Forbidden Jews were not invited to return. Their property has often not been returned; there are stories, such as all possible tricks, legal and illegal, have been used to prevent the return of property, of apartments, companies, properties and so on. I am now ad hoc about the example of the residence of the Israeli message, which ultimately came into the property of the State of Israel, because the Jewish owners were given all possible footholds that had made it impossible for them to regain this property, and therefore they have given it to the State of Israel. On the other hand, it should be acknowledged that in Austria, over the last 30 years, especially naturally triggered by the intense discussions during Kurt Waldheim's election to the Federal President in 1986, there has been much change. The important speeches of the then Federal Chancellor Vranitzky are to be recognized here in both the High House and Israel, in which he first acknowledged the guilt of Austrians. Among Vranitzky and subsequent German Chancellors and Governments, the acquisition of citizenship was then made possible, and compensation payments were also made, robbed art was restored and so on. At this point, however, Sebastian Kurz's work in his capacity as Foreign Minister and later also as Federal Chancellor must be particularly appreciated. I have personally experienced this, accompanied him as well. He has found the right words on his visits to Israel and on numerous other occasions and meetings in Jewish communities around the world in a very special way – words of guilt, responsibility, especially with regard to the security of the State of Israel, and especially sympathy for the survivors and their descendants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Sebastian Kurz has thus performed a great service throughout Austria and has acquired great sympathy throughout the world and especially in the Jewish communities. Sebastian Kurz has also allowed words to follow actions, as is precisely the case with the current amendment to the Citizenship Act. The descendants of Austrian Jews who were victims of National Socialism can now obtain, in a simplified procedure, Austrian citizenship, which they had not actually lost or abandoned, if it had not been for the National Socialism and the Persecution in Austria. It is a simple, unbureaucratic and, I would say, honest and clean law that we create here, without footings, without bureaucratic obstacles, unnecessary deadlines and so on. As already mentioned: The Federal Government has taken the decision on this change of law under German Chancellors in short already in March 2018. It is an important commitment of Austria to its responsibility, but also a beautiful sign of commitment and friendship to the Jewish victims of National Socialism and its descendants. I would also like to thank, in particular, the SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS colleagues, who have worked very constructively with the ÖVP to bring about this change of law. It is a particularly beautiful sign that this change of law will be passed by the votes of all parties in the National Council; thank you very much for that now. I would also like to express great thanks to the officials of the Ministry of the Interior under the direction of the Ministry of the Interior, to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also to the competent office of the City of Vienna, to the MA 35, the MA 35 Magistrates Department, who have contributed enormously positively to the state of this change of law. – Thank you very much, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we should be aware that tens of thousands and more Jewish people around the world are looking for Austria with Austrian roots and still a very large alliance with Austria, watching us today and welcoming this change of law as another positive sign of the new Austria. It fills me with humility and pride that I was able to participate in the condition of this law. It's one of the moments I can say, I'm proud to be an Austrian. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, I must also carry out this formal exercise and submit an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Krainer and Mr Scherak on his report.]] [[21:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30891	Thank you many times, honourable Member. Now this amendment has also been properly tabled, we are taking it into consideration and we are going to put it to the vote. Mr Hermann Kristi. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30919	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Ministers! The women's ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer has tabled a motion for a resolution on dual citizenship for South Tyrol. We will not vote in favour of this request, and I would like to make a brief statement: on the one hand, because it actually contradicts the very good use of cooperation in the South Tyrol Committee, that I now receive this request at 9 p.m., so when it was officially filed. This is actually unusual, but I take note of it. On the other hand - - at 9 p.m. we got it, I got the time on it. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true! 3 hours ago!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: We've never talked about it before!]] On the other hand, because the issue is actually one that we have been discussing continuously since 2010, since the great signatory action of South Tyrol freedom in the South Tyrol Committee or also bilaterally. We have held talks in Bolzano and in Austria, and in some regularity, there have been applications here in the house, there have been many individual initiatives from South Tyrol, from the SVP state party, from the club of the SVP's elders, from the South Tyrol freedom, from the liberals. At the time when Mr Kurz was Foreign Minister, he was vehemently tried and spoke out against this matter. This has been agreed in the Government Convention – everything is clear. There has been a lot of conversations, and then this letter has come, signed by 19 countrymen of the South Tyrolean Parliament; of 35 signed it 19. Interestingly, only seven of the 17 SVP members signed and ten did not. No head of state, no council has signed the letter. And in this letter, the wish was expressed that this should be resumed in the government negotiations. - It happened. We've actually decided in advance that after so many years we'll finally tell the South Tyroleans whether we want it or not. We actually agreed. We were on our way to finally say whether we are now dealing with the amendments to the law or dropping the matter. Now again, a request is being made to the Minister responsible for employment, which is impossible and possible for reasons of time alone. I'll tell you: We are always happy to have reasonable, official and binding discussions with government and country day South Tyrol and government and National Council Austria, we have not refused to do so, even if our enthusiasm for the subject is limited. I would also like to have nice and bilateral discussions, but we do not need a request to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30967	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e30991	Madam President. My previous speaker, Mr Christ von der SPÖ, claimed that he had received the request to South Tyrol after 9 p.m. I'm actually correcting: According to the delegation, Mr Kristi received the request at 18.56 a.m. And it can be expected by a Member of Parliament that he will be able to read a request within three hours.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31056	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Wolfgang Peschorn has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31080	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to speak on the proposal for an initiative on which two amendments have been tabled and allow me, as the Federal Minister for the Interior, to inform you of some details of our discussions, of the implementation of the Citizenship Act. I've already said at my opening speech: Administration is forms within the framework of the laws. And if you're serious about this, the laws are the framework of administrative action. And so that what the citizens expect of us, namely that if they have a right to it, can and can be implemented quickly, is possible – contraryly, we are talking about a legal initiative that enables people to obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Austria by displaying – the laws should be clearly formulated and implemented by the administrative authorities responsible for them. I would like to thank the National Council for its confidence in my administration, in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, because we have been able to take part in the design of this amendment proposal, the amendment that we have tabled today by the honourable Member. Angelberg has been presented. I would like to thank you for the fact that those authorities that have to comply with this law following your decision will, in the vast majority of cases, be the Magistrates' Division 35, but also the Federal Ministry of Europe, Integration and External Affairs, will be able to give it quick recognition to all people who want to gain Austrian citizenship by ad. The request put forward by Mrs. Dr. Krisper is very broad and soon consultation with the experts was no longer possible. The text of this proposal is very wide and it makes it difficult to implement it. From the point of view of the classification, the novelle you decide on today is to insert a paragraph 1a, which is linked to paragraph 1 of § 58c. And there, in § 58c Abs. 1, has long been defined as the ancestors from whom the offspring should derive their right. With the request of Mr Dr. Grow Krisper This concept of ancestors, and this leads to a discrepancy between those persons who were persecuted as ancestors under paragraph 1 and those who can now rely on the ancestors as descendants. I know that the vote is in your mind, I wanted to give you this information as a guide. As the Federal Minister for the Interior, however, I am pleased that I was able to see the statements and also the efforts to make a joint application that exist here in the House of Consen on the right to a follow-up of a persecuted person who can obtain Austrian citizenship by ad. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31129	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft law contained in Mrs. Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner's motion for a resolution. Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Steger, Mr Scherak, Mr Noll, Mr President, have tabled an additional request. Furthermore, MEPs have Wöginger, Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Wöginger, Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, Mr Steger, Mr Scherak, Mr Noll, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of paragraphs 0, 1a and 2a. Whoever agrees to these additions, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Wöginger, Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also like to ask for the third reading. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Neubauer, Gahr, and colleagues on 'close bilateral talks on double citizenship for South Tyrol'. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. This motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 121) Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rendi-Wagner, Mr Steger, Mr Scherak, colleagues, on the acquisition of citizenship for descendants of the victims of National Socialism. [[Abg. Wöginger: Wöginger is also on it! Wöginger's on it, too!]] – Not on my Croquis, Mr. Klubobmann! [[Abg. Wöger: Why not?]] Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 122) Vote on agenda items 2 to 10 [[21:53:05]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31190	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 2 to 10. This is now a series of votes that we have to take. I ask once again – it has been agreed in this way – whether all clubs also have the voting croquis. - Good. We shall then proceed as agreed in the voting process. I shall vote separately on each item on the agenda. Agenda item 2: Draft tax reform law 2020 in 687 of the supplements. There is an additional request from the honourable Member, Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, two additional amendments tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, ladies and gentlemen, an additional amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, Mr Neubauer, Mr BA, Mr Colleagues, an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Krainer, Mr Haubner, Mr MMag. DDr. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Sandler, colleagues, and an amendment or amendment tabled by Mrs Wimmer, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Matznetter and a request for a separate vote by Mr Dipl.-Ing. in double farmer. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary and amending proposals and request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and then on on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Krainer, fellow Members, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 1a into Article 1 and resulting renumbering. If you're here, I'll ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 1a. I'm asking for a sign for those who speak for it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 1 Z 4 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on this subject. 1 Z 5 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 6. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new point 7a. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 13 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of points 13a to 13e into Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a point 13a into Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of points 14a to 14c into Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 14a into Article 1. Who is in favour of this supplementary request? – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 16a into Article 1. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional request concerning the insertion of a litera e in Art. 1 Z 21. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 21 lit. d. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a point 21a into Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 4 Z 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 4 Z 7 and 8. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 7 Z 3 and 4. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 9 of the draft law. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment or amendment. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote separately on the remaining parts of Article 9 which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of point 1a into Article 12. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 22. There are several additional or amendments. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraphs 1 to 6, resulting in a renumbering of the remaining paragraphs. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Neubauer, Mr BA, Mr President, have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of point 4a into Article 22. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 6 and the resulting renumbering into Article 22. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This too is accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 22 Z 6b. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the amendments to Art. 22 C 7. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 22 Z 7 § 376. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment concerning the insertion of a word into the Rules of Procedure. 22 Z 7 § 376. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 22 Z 7 § 376 Z 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report and having regard to the amendment just adopted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an additional proposal concerning the addition of a new point 3 in Art. 22 Z 7 § 376. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the separate vote on a point of order. 22 Z 7 § 377 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote separately on the remaining parts of Article 22 which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. Who's up for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Rule 23. There are a number of additional or amendments. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraphs 1 to 4, resulting in a renumbering of the remaining paragraphs. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this text to give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchitsch, Neubauer, BA, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1 into Article 23 and resulting renumbering. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 into Article 23 and the resulting renumbering. Who's calling for it? – This is also accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 23 Z 4b. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Rule. 23 Z 5 § 369. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning the insertion of a word in § 369 Z 1. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Members Sandler and colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning the adaptation of a word order in § 369 Z 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This too is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. 23 Z 5 § 369 Z 1 and 2 as amended by the Committee's report and taking into account the amendments just adopted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning the addition of a point 3 in Art. 23 Z 5 § 369. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 23 Z 5 § 370. Mr Haubner, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of the species, which have not yet been voted on. 23 Z 5 § 370 as amended by the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 23 which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Article 24 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm, fellow Members, on 'Maintaining the Austrian tobacco monopoly and ensuring fair non-smoking protection for our local gastronomy'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Belakovich, colleagues, on 'necessary relief for people with disabilities through the revision of the standard consumption tax law, the valorization of the allowances in § 35 EStG and the valorization of the amounts in the regulation on exceptional charges'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 104) We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Pension Adjustment Act 2020 in 688 of the Supplements. Mr Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mr Members, Mr Wimmer, Mr Members, Mr Muchich, Mr Neubauer, Mr BA, colleagues, Mr Keck, Mr Belakovich, Mr colleagues, and Mr Haubner, Mr Neubauer, Mr BA, Mr Colleagues, have tabled a total of six supplementary or amendment amendments. Therefore, I would like to begin by voting on the parts concerned by the amendments or amendments referred to above, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and an additional or amendment proposal contain a constitutional provision, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Members of Stöger, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment amendment concerning the insertion of Sections 5a, 5b, 26, 152, 718 into Article 1 and the resulting renumbering of points. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority, rejected. Deputies Wimmer, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of Article 221a into Article 1 and the resulting renumbering. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority, rejected. – This also shows that there is not the required two-thirds majority. Members of the Muchitsch, Neubauer, BA, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of § 108h and the resulting renumbering of paragraph 1 in Article 1. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a point 1b and the amendment to point 4 of Article 1. Who's for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Keck, Dr.in Belakovich, colleagues, tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of a point 1c into Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Haubner, Mr Neubauer, Mr BA, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning Rule. 1 Z 2. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on 'fair pensions for women'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 105) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law, which lays down the Federal Law on a grant of purpose due to the abolition of access to property in the case of accommodation of persons in permanent care facilities for the years 2019 and 2020, in 689 of the supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, Ing. Vogl, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning § 1. Whoever gives his consent to this, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who will also give his approval at third reading? – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on a Law on the entrance of a foundation tax law, into 690 of the Supplements. Mr Haubner, Mr MMag. DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Haubner, MMag. DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 1. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This too is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees in third reading? – The draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and receipt in 691 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who is in favour of this at the third reading? – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 7: Motion for a resolution 974/A(E) by Mr Dr.in Belakovich, Mr Muchich, Mr President, on the abolition of special pension privileges. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament have tabled an overall amendment. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dr.in Belakovich, Mr Muchitsch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 106) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: motion for a resolution 975/A(E) by Mr Dr.in Belakovich, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Muchich, on the legal anchoring of the disbursement of the 13th and 14ths. Monthly salary. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament have tabled an overall amendment. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dr.in Belakovich, Mr Muchitsch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously adopted. (E 107) Agenda item 9: Motion for a resolution 508/A(E) by Mr Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on the improvement of personal assistance. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 108) Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft Amendment Act 2020 in 686 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Dipl.-Ing. in double farmer. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Rule 1 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I'm asking for a positive sign if you want to. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to a sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. We have ended the vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[22:23:05]] 22. Point Mr Carmen Schimanek, Mr Mag. Dr. Juliane Bogner-Strauss, colleagues on more financial means to prevent violence against women (988/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31912	This leads us to the 22nd place. Agenda item. With regard to the application, a period of time for reporting to the Equal Treatment Committee has been set aside for the reporting period up to 5. ==References== I have no wish for reporting. First of all, Mrs Dr.in Juliane Bogner-Strauß is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e31942	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out how much importance I have placed on the protection of violence as a Minister of Women. I also focused on this subject at the time and re-examined the appropriate resources. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] As a women's spokesperson of the ÖVP and as the head of the ÖVP woman, I am also very, very, very important to help quickly for women and girls affected by violence. Accordingly, we have also included the protection of violence in our electoral programme. Austria – and I would like to stress this here – is very, very well positioned in the field of violence protection. We have taken a pioneering role across Europe. Nevertheless, I would like to say that in Austria too many women and girls are affected by violence, the number is constantly rising, and that in 2018 there were 41 women's murders. That makes us all very affected. It is important to provide appropriate political frameworks and financial resources so that women do not get into this violent situation at all or can escape this spiral of violence. As Minister of Women, I focused on the protection of violence. The women's budget, as you know, was very limited, only just over 10 million euros; this has not been adjusted in the last ten years. We have spent a large part of this money on women's and girls' advisory services and the second half of this money on violence centres and intervention agencies. In March 2019, I also convened an anti-violence summit and had all the political experts of the federal states at the table. We have had very good discussions, we have discussed how we can create cross-border women's homes, how we can manage more money for transition homes, and how we can, above all, expand the advisory services for those affected by sexualised violence, which unfortunately are not yet available in four federal states. For this I would have liked to take over half a million euros in 2019, but this was prevented by red, blue and JETZT and mistrust. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Lindner.]] The issue of violence, especially domestic violence, presents us with great challenges in society. It is important to link a bundle of measures. Prevention work is important, victim protection work is important, but also victim protection-oriented culprit work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to stop violence. Women should be able to feel safe with us. There are several solutions and there is a need for sufficient budgetary resources. I would like to thank all of you, the women's and girls' counsellors who work in this way, and I would like to focus on their work here again. I have had many discussions with the women's and girls' advisory services, with the anti-violence centres, with the intervention agencies, and I have been told by everyone that it needs more financial resources for good prevention work and to help women who are already affected by violence. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in ten days we will go to the National Council election. Then it will be quite clear whether the many promises made by our political competitors and competitors will be met or how many of them go into emptiness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] But one thing is certain: In our programme – in the 100 projects of our election programme – we have built up the protection of violence and given it a place. We are in favour of making the funds so urgently needed available in the future so that we can do more for the protection of violence and victims in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's a big concern to me personally. If you, ladies and gentlemen, would like to see fact- and reality-based women's policy made in Austria, then there will be 29th. September only one choice, and this is the New People's Party. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32005	Mr Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. No victim of violence in Austria, no woman and no child deserved to be discussed first of all unscrupulously, secondly unfairly and thirdly double-bedded, and this suspicion is pressing me pretty much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bogner-Strauß! Let's look back a few years: As one of the first countries, Austria has ratified a Convention on the protection of women from violence and domestic violence, valid since 1.1.2014. At the time, a national action plan, which was developed, immediately took place, was unanimously taken note of by Parliament, and many of its departments were involved. Everyone has helped to make a good contribution with the resources that were not very high at the time. Then we were examined to Monaco as the first state by a Commission. This Commission has, after the evaluation, put us on the table some proposals for improvement. The first thing was: Of course, it needs more budget for the protection of violence, of course that is necessary. What did we do? – We immediately introduced an increase of 5 million euros – and now is the Turquoise Blue – and now the insincereness, the double-beddedness and the uniosity are coming – and you have ignored it. [[Abg. Schimanek: Go, go, go!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, and today's coming. You will therefore, of course, go along with this motion for a resolution, which is not a question, and ask for more money, an increase in the budget for women. That wasn't the first time. We have also put in motion for a resolution in between that there is a need for more money 3 million euros of emergency measures after these terrible women's murders, 2 million euros for victim protection, 1 million euros for victim protection-oriented perpetrator work – ignored by Turquoise-Blue. [[Abg. Stefan:... so excited’....!]] So, what's now? – Next week we will discuss a large package of violence. We have another opportunity to point out who is working in this country, who is working well with the institutions. The Alliance, which formed in 2017, consists of 35 organisations that want to be taken seriously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] They also want to know what it means to get out with less hours. This policy of Turquoise-Blue, this ex-minister has to answer that unfortunately many consulting hours had to be shortened. And now let's put it. You come here and say: Only we are the ones that make for more money. We can look back on a wonderful work with the organizations for many years and have endeavored honestly to take into account also the protection of violence and to protect girls, women and, of course, men as best as possible. But if you make such requests, you do not know what you are talking about, because the Grevio report also tells us that in Austria we actually need 210 million euros to prevent the economic consequences of violence. The word prevention has not come to your lips. That would be the most important thing we need to address in this area. Investing in prevention also means not investing in violence in the future. That's strange to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32092	Mrs Schimanek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32119	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! The issue of violence is a serious one. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I am now horrified. I am now horrified at what you have delivered from the speaker's desk. Without my request, we would not even be so far today that we are fighting together for an increase in the women's budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] You know it very well. I remember: I was a young Member in 2008, in 2009, you did nothing for it. To make yourself here today and to say that we have done nothing, that is – no, I must not say it, otherwise I get an order from the President – unfair. I do not think that women who work on a daily basis for women affected by violence have deserved it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] What you've done now is really unfair. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The issue of violence against women is so emotional. We know that every fifth woman in Austria is affected by violence. I don't think it deserved any polemics. [[New call of the abg. Duzdar.]] Far from ideological boundaries, it takes an shoulder closure to raise this women's budget, and we do it today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I would also like to thank all the women who take care of women and their children who are affected by violence in the intervention agencies, in the women's homes every day. That's a hard job, it's a often unthankful job. The women who are affected by violence are beaten, then flee to the women's home, are all traumatized, and you are now making it a polemic! So I'm really just more shaken. In fact, we have to say – Mrs Bogner-Strauss said it – that last year there were 41 women’s murders; this was the 14th anniversary. But what you forget: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] We had a wave of refugees in 2015 and have imported a very antique picture of women with this wave of refugees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] If you believe that's not true now, I can give you two examples from the Innsbrucker Landesgericht: It was once an Afghan and once a Syrian. Both of them said that if they knew that they should not kill their wives in Austria, they would have done it elsewhere. That's the total madness! We also need to protect these women. At the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck was just the appeal proceedings in which the Syrian still meant: It can't be in this country that you can't kill your wife. So you know what? Then come and talk so stupidly that we do not commit ourselves to the women in Austria! This is only more shocking, and without me and without the FPÖ, the request is not going to be debated today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32214	Mrs Hager-Hammerle is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32235	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners! High house! I am now improvising because I am now at least as excited as the last two speakers. We are talking here about a request which calls for something which should be of course, and of course we are voting in favour of it. [[Abg. Schimanek: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: No!]] But I would also like to say: Mrs Minister, I would have liked to meet you this week at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, the sitting did not take place because two political groups in this House felt that this was not necessary. Since I'm new to this house, that's something that really surprised me, because I didn't know that the principle of majority voting is the same – the principle of unanimity, yes, you have it now. [[Abg. Schimanek: principle of unanimity!]] The principle of unanimity applies. Since I know that, I've been telling people outside, and they're just as amazed as I am. Of course, we agree with this proposal, of course we continue to support it politically, but it is already remarkable how unambitionated this proposal is by ÖVP and FPÖ. Today, Minister of Finance Müller reminded us of Max Weber's three qualities of a politician, which are passion, sense of responsibility and attention. – I hope this also applies to the politician. In this proposal, I find no word on the fact that, without an increase in the budget, the status quo is not even secured, no word about the need for additional financial resources to be able to actually implement one of the pilot projects of the former Minister of Women, namely the creation of 100 additional places for women affected by violence. Passion, responsibility, eye-to-eye: Dear FPÖ, dear ÖVP, isn't it? I also do not find in this request the hint of an idea of a long-term financing from a single source – nothing! The annual tremor of all the organisations active in the field of violence, because they do not know whether they will receive the same promotion or even a promotion, do not stop with it. Maybe you don't want to stop that either. This is what we want to do, and we therefore call for a coordinating body for the long-term planning and financing of all measures to combat violence. This also calls for the Grevio Commission. What we need is not just an appropriate budget, but a decent increase, because: How should a women's minister decide on effective measures if 99 percent of her budget has already been given a fixed budget? Although this is super-analysed, cleanly analysed in the application, it is no longer relevant in the conclusion. What we need is, on the one hand, better coordination and networking of stakeholders and, on the other, funding or better support for prevention and information. Interesting is: Much of it is not read in the FPÖ and the ÖVP's package of violence. Instead, you want to tighten up criminal law and introduce a health profession – that is, by means of victim protection institutions, perhaps you have noticed, rightly criticised it – and all of this, and this too is unfortunate, without proper debate in the Committee. I'm sorry, that's weak. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32296	I should now like to ask Mrs Holzleitner to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32321	I have to make a brief correction on the comments made by Mr Schimanek, who said that the former Federal Government has done so much for women. In 2018, a reduction of EUR 200 000 in the area of women's advisory services and a reduction of EUR 1 million in the family advisory services was made in the black and blue budget. – Violence looks different!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32348	Mrs Cox is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32369	Mr President. Dear Representative of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Also a hello to all the guests who are still here at this late hour! Ladies and gentlemen, What do half a kilo of bread, a litre of oats' milk and a cup of espresso have in common with the women's budget? [[a small loave of bread, a pack of oats' milk and an espresso of a fabric bag taken and placed on the speaker'spocket]] What do they all have in common? – They are all worth 2,30 euros. [[In addition to the above articles, the speaker presents a sign with the label ‘2,30’.]] What does that mean? – At the women's budget, we invest 10 million euros a year in violence protection and equality work. With a number of 4 290 174 women, this means that we invest 2.30 euros per year in violence protection and equality work. This sum has not changed since 2010, we have not even adapted it to inflation. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's too little! But I can also recognise this in the request made by Mr ÖVP and Mr FPÖ. It also says that they want to increase the budget, and it is also that they demand an appropriate budget. What is an appropriate budget? – In accordance with the recommendation of the Council of Europe's expert group on preventing violence against women and domestic violence, the recommendation is: 210 million euros for victim protection and for victim protection-based perpetrator work. – Just as much money should be taken into control. What happens to this money? – This saves people’s lives, but it also avoids the cost of domestic violence. One has to imagine: These follow-up costs are millions high! – That means that investment has to be made here, and I think it is appropriate. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] That means: No 2.30 euros, but much, much more, ladies and gentlemen! That's appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32428	Mrs Bundesminister Stilling has been reported to speak. I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32449	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that it is necessary to make more budget resources available to protect women from violence. For many years, the intervention agencies and the centres of violence have been doing essential work in this area every day. In addition to many other tasks, the women's and girls' advisory bodies are often the first contact point for violence-affected women, and even now – which has already been carried out several times – these places are often more than precarious in their resource situation. In order to cover the need for resources for these well-known institutions and their important work for violence-affected women and girls in the existing form, it is therefore necessary to spend almost all the women's budget currently and for many years. With the continuation of the current budget, it is not even possible to secure the existing facilities, and I cannot even talk about a necessary expansion. Measures to prevent, such as information and awareness work, but also research, particularly on new forms of violence – on-line violence, hatred on the network as an example – and to evaluate policy measures are hardly possible or not at all possible. However, Austria has committed itself to this with the Istanbul Convention both legally and internationally. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You are the minister! Do something!]] – Maybe let me continue, then I can tell you what I am doing. My predecessors as women's ministers have been confronted with this situation for many years and have always tried to increase the female budget. In accordance with our mission as a transitional government and on the basis of the fact that we are also making a mistake, I can tell you that I see a very concrete need of 4 million euros in the women's budget to maintain support for women and girls affected by violence and to implement the urgently needed enlargements. Violence against women and girls does not take a break – not in summer, not in times of a transitional government, nor when the women's resort has to struggle with resource scarcity. At the same time, however, it is important to report to you up-to-date news in the area of strengthening the protection of violence. Sexual violence is a sensitive issue and therefore calls for our special attention and specific advice for affected women and girls. I am particularly pleased that in recent months an important step has been taken to support these victims. So far, as my previous speaker has already said, in five federal states there have been special specialist advisory bodies in sexual violence. From now on, specialist consultancy services are also offered in three other federal states, namely Burgenland, Vorarlberg and Carinthia. The advisory bodies began their work there in August and September. Yesterday I visited the specialist consultancy for sexual violence in Burgenland in Neusiedl am See. The consultants there have told me, as have many other members of the committee of non-violent organizations, that the massive and diverse problems that women and girls have to face when they have been or are affected by sexual violence. In my view, the fact that there are specific specialist advisory bodies with the necessary resources is essential for this purpose. There is still a lack of a federal state, but I hope that, with combined forces, it will soon succeed in setting up a specialist advisory body in sexual violence against women and girls, and I will continue to work on it as a competent minister in my remaining time of government. Let me conclude, even at this somewhat advanced hour, a few comments on the proposal for an initiative on the law on the protection of violence which you, ladies and gentlemen, will be discussing next week! The women's counsellors in Burgenland expressed their concerns about the present draft law during my exchange yesterday, as well as experts in the field of victim protection and violence prevention in numerous discussions that I have held, all these representatives of the intervention agencies, the anti-violence centres, the women's and girls' advisory bodies and other victim protection bodies, specialised lawyers and the competent country representatives, all in this area, in the discussions. Some of them have also outlined their position in opinions under the review procedure. With the speakers in the Equal Treatment and Justice Committee, there was also a great exchange for which I am very grateful. I have also been allowed to make concrete proposals on the protection of victims in the role of expert and minister. I would also like to continue to be available as an expert in exchange for these proposals, even without a committee, if there is no deadline, and I am pleased with every debate and approach that we can jointly contribute to the strengthening and support of women and girls affected by violence. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32494	Mrs Pfurtscheller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32515	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the screens! I think we can agree on this, so far as we have been apart in the discussion so far, that we all want to work on the fact that there is more money. We have now heard several figures: Mrs Cox would like 210 million euros. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has reported on a request made by her, in which she called for more than EUR 3 million for the women's budget. The Minister has now mentioned an amount of EUR 4 million. You see, we're a little apart, but overall, as I said, the effort is made to get more money for the protection of violence. I would like to add two things very briefly: Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you know, I very much appreciate you being a great fighter for women, but I can also remember that in your time as a women's minister it was not easier than now to raise enough money. - That's the first thing I want to hold. The second thing I want to hold is: I sometimes have the feeling that the SPÖ will be very, very emotional when it comes to the protection of women – which is totally understandable because it is an important topic – but you often assume that we do not understand anything from the conservative side of violence, and I simply want to reject that. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That must be so, yes!]] I would also like to add the following: We would all like to have more money with each other, and I would like to point out that we would not only like it for the protection of violence, but also for measures of equality – I look at Mr Lindner. I think it is equally important that equality measures can also be financed, and not just measures to protect against violence. The second part, which is still important to me in addition to the budget – and something we want to implement with the next government, no matter how it looks – is the package of violence protection and are the laws of protection which have been envisaged, and I would like to say that I would like to say a lot to you, Mrs Minister, and a quote. Recently, on September 18, 2019, the forum of prosecutors took place in Kössen in Tyrol, where it was also about the protection of violence. Mrs. Rösslhumer spoke of the autonomous women's houses, and I may quote them literally: “We don’t have the impression that the perpetrators are found to be inaccurate. Only 10 percent of the ads led to convictions [...] It’s much too often set the same level.” Then there's an intermediate and then it goes on: “In women’s murders, there were 92 percent already known pre-criminals or directions!” Mr. Alexander Haydn of the Vienna Men's Advisory Board has assembled that there is a barrier to the work of the perpetrator. I believe that these two opinions are very well justified by the need for this package of protection against violence and why it also needs to be reinforced by sanctions. All in all, I would like to hold on once again and simply formulate a conciliatory conclusion: We are all fighting for more resources for the anti-violence institutions, and I very much hope – I really hope to express here – that we can make the new government look forward to providing more money for this. In any case, the EIA will fight for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32550	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32571	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been very exciting in this debate that, while you spoke, Mrs Minister, the predecessor of the German Federal Minister's office has not listened. Ladies and gentlemen! More financial means to prevent violence against women – yes, of course! Nevertheless, this request is more than absurd: The former Minister of Women and Family, who would have liked this job again after the election, asks herself to do the work she could have done herself in the last government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But she didn't do it. Today we experience exactly what we have experienced with the Ibiza coalition in the last 18 months: Show policy. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, women's policy, as well as equality policy, must never be show policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we look at the balance sheet of women's and equality policies in recent months, this does not represent a very, very positive picture. I remember the cuts in the women's advisory services. I remember that all the demands of the women's people were rejected. There were cuts in the family counsellors, no levelling-up, the attack on non-replaceable experts in school education – I remember the topic of sex education – and in the field of violence protection, although the expansion of 100 care places for affected women was announced, it should only be implemented in two to three years. 18 months of politics of a black and blue federal government for women and equality – you see exactly what women's and equality policies are worth. But, Mrs Bogner-Strauss, the fight against violence is mainly prevention work. It takes more than hypocritical applications to forget the last 18 months in which you have fought against those institutions, organizations and associations that are, in fact, trying to educate, prevent and secure the environment and cut them short. I expect every Minister of Women, but also every Member and every Member of this House, to work for an adequate and quality budget for women and equality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us take a positive example of the current women's minister, Ines Stilling! She knows what she's doing. Please continue, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32624	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32645	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! First of all, I think it is significant that whenever women's issues and especially violence issues are discussed in here, attention will fall accordingly and it will be heard accordingly. This seems to be the seriousness with which we are dealing here with women's issues. Ladies and gentlemen, to stop violence and violence-affected women and children who have to take part in violence, to ensure the best possible support and protection is, I believe, our major concern. It is therefore of course welcome if the two former government parties submit an application to raise the minimum female budget. Why didn't you do that when you've had time for it in the last 18 months? This question is involuntary. And: How high is this increase supposed to be? And what exactly do you want to do with it? Unfortunately, you have remained guilty of the answer to these questions in your application. I hope you will address this issue even after the election campaign with the necessary seriousness. As a women's minister, Pamela Rendi-Wagner succeeded in raising the minimum female budget by half a million euros in 2017. Unfortunately, this increase in the budget negotiations and in the budget debate for 2018 and 2019 was not taken away and the budget was reduced back to the previous year's budget of just over 10 million euros. The only sign is a questionable sign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the context of the budget debate, I would like to remind you that you have decided at the same time for short and short 66 million euros of basket money, i.e. more than six times the total budget of women at all. Mr Lindner has already mentioned it, and last year we decided on 100 additional places for women affected by violence. However, this is not reflected in a budget. So it remains a purely formal decision. Whoever does not take the necessary money into account for measures to protect against violence, for prevention work remains guilty. The tasks that are urgently needed are actually on the table. The experts from Allianz live non-violently, in which 30 organizations and experts have almost joined together, are on the table. The necessary money for this needs to be made available now, for example for the coverage of white spots in the women's homes – in Upper Austria, for example, the Salzkammergut or my constituency, the mill district where we urgently need it – or for prevention measures in schools or for sacrifice-oriented culprits. There is no money needed to actually implement these measures. Women's policy and violence in particular must not remain a side-by-side focus in politics. We must ensure, with united forces, that there can really be a corresponding increase in the female budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32697	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. Then I can pass on to the vote on the motion for a resolution 988/A(E) tabled by Mr Schimanek, Mr Bogner-Strauss, Mr President, on'more financial means to prevent violence against women'. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who agree, for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 123) [[23:01:08]] 23. Point Request by Dr Irmgard Griss, colleagues on Austrian corruption statistics (821/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32744	We come to Agenda item 23. With regard to this application, a deadline for reporting to the judicial committee was set for the first time. September 2019 set. Mr Fürlinger is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32771	High Bureau! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! In principle, we agree with this motion for a resolution today, but I would like to lose a few words on the text of the motion for a resolution. Mrs Griss! Ladies and gentlemen. The text of the application implies, of course, that we live in a banana republic that has been calling for corruption – and it definitely does not! Criminal statistics, which would in principle be sufficient to document the cases you want to know about, clearly show that Austria is not a Republic full of corruption, as it implies this text of the application. Mrs Griss, the motion for a resolution is disturbing from my point of view. It also does nothing for us if we permanently insinuate that this country is suffocating in corruption, because it is going through politics and it is also making politics worse, even though it is not. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We cannot constantly make things so bad here in this House that at the end of the day we may believe in it or rather the public believe that Austria is a corrupt republic. That's not Austria! And the second thing I want to tell you: We call for reports, reports, reports no longer to go, and at the same time we complain that justice is overburdened in some places. However, we are paving to the judges and court officials with documentation obligations, so that they lack the time for their actual work. Therefore: They are given the consent to this request, but with a clear limitation, namely that it must be feasible in a way that no further documentation burden is imposed on the courts, and that we ultimately also bring and digitise this kind of reports into justice 3.0, so that we do not burden the courts with further reporting obligations. There is nothing against extending the criminal statistics to include these cases, but I would ask you to be careful of where you are going with your requests or your views. “We are not that way,” said the President of the Federal Government, and neither are we.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32814	Mr Rechtsminister and Vice-Chancellor Jabloner spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32836	Mr President. High house! From my point of view, this is a positive undertaking. I don't think it would be bad if we put in place a corruption statistics if there were corruption crimes. But just as this is meant here, the resources of the Ministry of Justice are sprung up, it is hardly feasible. We also presented a comprehensive evaluation in this area in 2016. I may be able to illustrate that in 2010, the Ministry of Justice commissioned a study on the forms and spread of corruption in Austria with a focus on criminal offences, which cost almost 80 000 euros and employed an employee net eight months full-time. However, we can consider certain surrogates. It would be possible to include a chapter in the security report dedicated to combating corruption. It would also be possible to involve Parliament in the anti-corruption coordination body headed by the Ministry of Justice, which meets about four times a year and which could also be invited by the parliamentary groups. The Council of Ministers also took part on 31 December. In January 2018 a national anti-corruption strategy was adopted, with part of this strategy being the adoption of action plans to be evaluated and updated, for example, in the biennial rhythm. ==References====External links== A decision was taken on January 2019 and any implementation reports could also be sent to Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32869	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32890	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. So where Mr Förlinger says that we have no corruption problems, I don't understand. I mean, the Buwog alone and everything that goes deep into politics are actually the classics. These are parade examples of relevant crimes from the corruption class presented at universities. So I don't understand. Therefore, a clear yes to this corruption statistics. The former President of the Supreme Court knows very well what is good for this country, and of course we will support it, no question in the way in which the ministry is able to deal with it; I suppose that will be enough. I think it's important to make clear what's going on and what you can do about it. Then it may be possible for Mr Fürlinger to give this speech again in two or three years' time and then vote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32918	Member Stefan has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32939	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that I have been able to follow Mr Fürlinger's comments. We too will agree because we are in principle pleased with the intention to get information. However, it is a problem because more and more detailed reports are still being requested. We have just heard from Mr Vice-Chancellor that this is practically impossible by the judicial system. So you always have to watch out for the effort you have to make with the looser demand: I would like to have a report on this. But if you do it in a speculated version, just as the Ministry of Justice is able to do, and then we get basics, then it's good. You just have to be aware, it's not a corruption measure for a long time, but it's just a foundation. In this sense, we shall agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32966	Member Griss has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e32988	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Yes, I can reassure you, it is thought that corruption crimes are specifically identified in the security report, and that is a basis for a corruption analysis. Such a corruption analysis would then again be the basis for corruption prevention. We will have the Court of Auditors reports on anti-corruption in the ministries next time, and we will see that there is a great need for a great deal of re-examination, that the sensitivity has not yet been developed. It would be very good if there were no corruption, but it is not. There is not only further south and east, there is also the danger of corruption, and it is useful and necessary to prevent this. And in order to prevent this, you need data, and such data can be obtained through such corruption statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33021	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution 821/A(E) by Mrs Griss, colleagues and others on 'Austrian corruption statistics'. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 124) [[23:10:19]] 24. Point Request by Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Dr. Irmgard Griss, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Number, the Scope of Effect and the Establishment of the Federal Ministries (Bundesministeriengesetz 1986 – BMG) (968/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33073	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. [[Abg. Jarolim is already going to the speaker's desk.]] With regard to this request, the Constitutional Committee became a deadline for reporting to 4. ==References== Mr Jarolim, I am sorry, but you are not yet ready. Mrs Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. (Court of the ÖVP: It's better anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33104	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! With this request, SPÖ, NEOS and the JETZT list aim to ensure that the criminal law section in the Ministry of Justice is divided into a criminal law department and a directive section. This means that in future criminal law theory and practice are separated from one another and run side by side again. A great deal of energy seems to me to have not been invested in this proposal, which is before us. The explanatory statement with the Lapidar sentence that the merger into a uniform criminal law section has not proved itself, as has been observed in recent years, without any example of this, that is not an objectively well-founded reason for me, nor can it be comprehensible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to admit that there are different views on the subject of criminal law law and the law section in political opinion. One can discuss this, and there will probably be several opinions in our Parliament. In my opinion, the merger of the sections in 2010 – which is at least nine years ago – has led to the fact that in the management of the section there is a good, yes, excellent summary of criminal law and the application of criminal offences in the prosecution by the prosecutors, because often – we all know – it is the practitioners, the investigating prosecutors who articulate and argue about the need for change. And the legal system can then be followed in such a way in a short time. Let me give you an example: In the context of anti-state connections, the section was able to assist and advise the prosecutors accordingly, including on the question of what kind of crime could be charged. On the other hand, there were gaps in the law, which in practice became apparent and which was proposed to Parliament to close. What is also striking is that the application provides for a detailed arrangement on a section of the Federal Ministry Act, and I think it is system-consuming when you go into detail in the Federal Ministry Act. Indeed, the application provides that paragraph 8 of Section 7 should be amended, which lays down in detail how the division of the place of business should take place. Ladies and gentlemen! It is in accordance with the law, namely, according to this paragraph, the Minister of State, the Deputy Chancellor, to carry out the fundamental organization of his place of business, and with all that he does, this Federal Minister is also responsible to us, to Parliament. I do not think it wise to prescribe to the Minister exactly how he has to lead his house and how he has to build his place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you make such a request, you should think things over, too, because if you create a new section, you also need to change Appendix 1 to the Civil Service Law, because then the head of section, the head of section, a new scheme and a different use group are to be classified. That is also missing in this proposal. In my opinion, it is also a bad time five minutes ago, a bad time. The question arises why such a change should be made overly hasty at the end of a legislative period. We all know the rules in the Federal Ministry Act! – normally at the beginning of a legislative period, the government parties that have come together on the occasion of a government formation. We will therefore vote in favour of the request for referral back to the Constitutional Committee, which is already on the Bureau and will then bring in MEPs Stefan. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33171	Mr Jabloner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33198	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you not to break down on this issue, but to consider carefully such a legal measure, and would therefore also recommend that this matter be referred back to the Constitutional Committee. One can be of different opinion about the division of the Ministry of Justice. This is a political question, but it is also a technical question, and I do not think it is necessary to change ad personam organizational units. I know that this happens all the time, of course, that this is common, but I don't have to play this game and I therefore believe that you should do it objectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also believe that there is little point in changing the Federal Ministry Act at the end of the legislative period, because the first thing that the new Federal Government will do is to change the Federal Ministry Act. I therefore see relatively little sense in providing for such a legal measure now. I also believe that this draft must be legitimized, even if one considers it to be correct. There are some ambiguities in there. It is not quite clear what it means to say that the Minister cannot delegate his right of guidance – whatever that means. What about the internal direction situation? It is also true that such a formulation would exclude the use of a Secretary-General – which I thought was a very good idea, because I thought little of the Secretary-General – but one must remember that there are State Secretarys, and they can always be postponed constitutionally between the Federal Minister and a head of section. So I'd ask you to consider the matter thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33242	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Now he's actually on it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33263	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the form of design we currently have is that the head of the legal system is at the same time also the head of the order in individual criminal matters, is the most politicalized form in general how to occupy this position. We have been for years in favour of the creation of a state attorney, elected here by Parliament, who leads the public prosecutor's office from a neutral point of view. This is the absolute opposite of what we currently have. Nor is it a political question, Mr Vice-Chancellor, but I think it is a matter of fact. When you trace the story of how it came to the merger – the merger took place in 2008 – then you can see how much this was actually about a purely political measure. The comments by lawyers of all kinds – university professors, prosecutors, judges – were clearly negative. The then Minister of Justice, Bandion-Ortner, wanted to decompose a section head who had been in office for two years – Bogensberger, who is now an international size – and it was seen how it was possible to cancel a section head appointed for five years, who had been in office for only two years. It was only because of the fact that a change in the Federal Ministry of Justice law was made to the Ministry of Justice, in the form that one has said, yes, we must necessarily put together two sections. But these were exactly those two sections that are not actually collapsible, because: One is the Legist, who has contact with all the parties who must discuss the projects with them, clarify the projects which are the epitome of the contact person with politics; and the other should, however, in the silent chamber, look at the procedures without contact with politics and give instructions in such a way that it is not as at present that one then tells the head of section: Yes, by the way, there is something else, and so on and so on. – That’s why there was a lot of criticism at the time. “Whoever makes the rules should not also watch over compliance,” says Helmut Fuchs, one of the most renowned university professors of criminal law. Peter Schick, professor of criminal law in Graz with also a big reputation, says: “A combination of legal and individual criminal matters would not be in the sense of our beautiful tradition of separation of violence. We should maintain separation.” Ex-section head Miklau, also an approved size, explains: “The separation of criminal law and individual criminal matters has created a balance.” We should not touch them, everything else would be “forward. ” Ladies and gentlemen, there was a personal occasion at the time, it was about using the head of section and helping the other. The current section head can't do that. But this does not change the fact that this is a profoundly insecure solution, which should not actually exist in this form. I would have liked to, and actually expected, that the Justice Ministers of the past – in that case, Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is only in office for a short period of time, certainly would have removed this system. I also discussed this with Minister Brandstetter at the time, he certainly had sympathy for it and said that he saw it anyway. That is the classic of me going over to Parliament and talking to one another and the other about the procedure at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] There are not a few procedures that also affect this House. That is why I do not understand at all; there is a very, very strong agreement, or even one of the occasions when this idea was born, on the part of the FPÖ. I think that's a funeral of a different kind. I am already excited about the argument that the colleague has already stated it. So I think it's a sign of weakness. I don't think it's a good argument. I also believe that it is an objective solution and not a political solution to find something that would be a small step towards more neutrality, towards an objective public prosecutor's management authority. What we currently have is certainly the worst possible solution, and I remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33318	Mr Stefan has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33340	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that this request is on the agenda today depends significantly on the fact that we have agreed to the deadline proposal. We have made sure that this request is debated today, because in principle we can understand this intention or this consideration as regards the aggregation of the directive section and criminal law in a section. This is not really the best solution, and we have therefore been able to approach this request and have said: Yes, we are thinking about whether this is the right solution in the proposal. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that the request does not offer the right solution for various reasons. This starts once again – as I believe it is different from Mr Vice-Chancellor – that the Secretary-General, whom we consider to be a very useful institution – that is why we have introduced him. Furthermore, it is of course already a problem if, at the end of a legislative period, one changes the Federal Ministry Act, which would then be changed back in a short time by the next government. This is certainly not the right approach in this respect either. I also do not share the opinion that we need a state attorney. I don't think that would bring anything. On the contrary: Anyone who knows Austrian reality knows that such a state attorney, who would be officially independent, would eventually be politically occupied in some form. [[Abg. Plessl:... responsibility of Parliament!]] This would also be a new authority, so it would be no improvement in the sense of administrative simplification. Moreover, the political responsibility of the Minister, who is now at the top of the prosecutor's office, would fall away. So we're against the state attorney. However, since we believe that this idea is not in principle wrong – and I also appreciate what Mr Vice-Chancellor said – and therefore want this to remain in the parliamentary debate, I hereby request that this request be referred back to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33391	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33412	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! So I can confirm what Mr Jarolim said. I remember the discussion at the time when it was about the merger of the two sections. That was the reason why you did it, and already then there were great concerns. These concerns are based on the necessary, useful contacts of the head of criminal law with the policy of showing that this can be an intrusion for political or political interventions in individual criminal cases. This is not something you have to invent; it happens that this appearance arises. That is why it is in the sense of an independent judicial system, a judicial system that is familiar with the removal of these occasions. There's nothing wrong with that. Why not separate the two sections? I am right for Mrs Steinacker to say that it can be beneficial in individual cases to see from the practical application of a criminal law that there is a need for development to do something about it. It can be an incentive to see that the standard is not exactly defined, that it covers something that is not actually worthy of punishment, or that it does not capture something that should actually be punished. - That's right. On the other hand, the disadvantage is that this impression arises, because it is important and necessary that the head of criminal law has these contacts. Then, through his expertise, he can also prevent any Party-politically motivated changes in the law that are not so favourable to the system. That is the reason why such a separation would be useful, and it is also the reason for my commitment to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33445	The list of speakers has been exhausted. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote on Mr Stefan's request to refer the matter back to the Constitutional Committee. The application shall be submitted in writing. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this referral request an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The application shall be rejected. [[23:28:17]] 25. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Linz (Zl. 19 St 67/19y) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz (693 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33501	That's where we get to the 25th. Agenda item. There is no mention of this. We therefore come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 693 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate Linz [...] for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilzwegen of the suspicion of a criminal offence according to § 297 StGB, in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that there is a link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Peter Pilz is approved.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. [[23:29:34]] 26. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Linz (Zl. 21 St 94/19h) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the Efgani Dönmez National Council, PMM (694 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33562	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There is no mention of this either. We shall vote on the request in 694 of the supplements: “In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate Linz [...] for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council of Efgani Dönmez, in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the Member [...].’ Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:30:30]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33602	We shall now proceed to the vote on the time-limits for the sitting. I will be voting on the requests for deadlines individually, with the Committee being appointed and the number of the application and the applicant in question, so that everyone can understand them. It is a whole series of votes that we still have to do. Vote on the request of Mr Scherak, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 58/A, a deadline of 24 April. ==References== – This is the minority. Request by Mr Krisper to set a deadline for reporting to the Committee on Internal Affairs on application 704/A(E). – This is the majority, accepted. Request by Mr Krisper, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. ==References== – This is the majority, accepted. Mr Loacker requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 827/A set a deadline of 24th. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on Mr Krisper's request to set a deadline of 24 months to the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on Amendment 976/A(E). Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Further: Request by Mr Krisper to set a deadline of 24 months to the judicial committee for reporting on request 979/A(E). – This too remains in the minority. Similarly, Mrs Krisper makes a request to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 981/A(E) for a period of time until 24. ==References== – This too remains in the minority. Further: Request by Mr Stefan, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 868/A to set a deadline until 23 this month. – That remains in the minority, rejected. The same is true: Request by Mr Stefan, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 870/A a deadline until 23. ==References== – The request will be accepted by a majority. Vote on the request by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber to set a period of time until the 23rd of the month to the Health Committee for reporting on Mr Holtinger-Vogtenhuber's motion for a resolution 878/A. – That remains in the minority, rejected. Further: Request by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, to the Health Committee for reporting on request 854/A, a deadline until 23. ==References== – This remains in the minority. Further: Request by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 877/A, also, a deadline until 23. ==References== – That remains in the minority, rejected. Further: Vote on the request from Mr Lueger and Mr Colleague to put to the Committee on Internal Affairs a deadline for reporting on motion 388/A until 24. – This is the minority, rejected. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Buildings and Housing, I should like to make a request to the Committee on Buildings and Livings to report on Amendment 516/A. ==References== – This remains in the minority. Request by the National Councillor Yildirim, ladies and gentlemen, to set a deadline for the equal treatment committee to report on application 471/A(E) up to 24. – This request shall be accepted by a majority. We now come to the request of Mr Sandler, colleagues, to report to the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the 130/A proposal for a deadline until 24. – This is the minority, rejected. Further: Request by Mrs Griss and Mr Colleague to report to the Committee on Justice on application 953/A for a deadline until 24 December. – The application does not find a majority, rejected. Request by Mr Vogl, fellow Members, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on amendment 947/A to a deadline of 24 May. September 2019 to be set up. – That remains in the minority, rejected. Mr Preiner, fellow Members, asked the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on Amendment No 532/A(E) to a deadline of 24 months. – That remains in the minority, rejected. Further: Mr Androsch, fellow Members, asked the Health Committee to report to the Commission on the 860/A request for a deadline of 24 May. – That remains in the minority, rejected. Request by Mr Preiner, colleagues, to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for reporting on Amendment 344/A(E) to 24 September 2019 to be set up. – This remains also in the minority, rejected. Last request: Request by Mr Schellhorn and Mr Colleague, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, to report on amendment 896/A(E) by Mr Schellhorn, Mr De Clercq, on a deadline of 24 May. September 2019 to be set up. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:37:23]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-09-19-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00088_d8e33769	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 991/A to 1025/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 25 May. September, at 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
