ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3913	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to delay a little – after a stand-alone to clear a few points – the 6. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. I can welcome you all once again, also the guests on the gallery and the spectators at home in front of the televisions! ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. November 2019 is in the Parliament's management and has not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported today. May. Volker Tirebergerund MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e3952	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Minister of State for Defence Mag. Thomas Starlinger is Mag. Dr. Brigitte Zarfl. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Mrs. Federal Chancellor Dr. Brigitte Bierlein will be appointed by Dr. Clemens Jabloner from the early afternoon, Ms. Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism Dipl.-Ing. Maria Patek, MBBy Federal Minister for Finance Dipl.-Kfm. Eduard Müller, MBAund Ms. Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research Mag. Dr. Iris Rauskala by Mrs. Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Mag. Elisabeth Udolf-Strobl. I am allowed to announce that the session will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. There will also be another photographer on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate on the road. [[10:13:07]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4048	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject “Stop violence against women!” Mrs. Rendi-Wagner is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4084	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Every person has the right to a self-determined, independent and above all a safe life, to a life without violence. – So far, so good; I think everyone in this room can agree to this rate by 100 percent. [[The speaker put a table entitled “Women’s Helpline Against Violence: 0800 222 555 www.violence center.at × Police: 133” on the speaker’s desk.]] The only thing that contradicts it is the number 34. – 34 people have lost their lives since the beginning of 2019, all of whom have one in common: They're all women, no more and no less. 34 women were murdered in Austria since the beginning of the year. Another common feature is that the vast majority of these 34 murders have happened in the family environment, and that is not my opinion, but the statistics demonstrate this and speak a clear language; it confirms: The greatest risk for women in terms of violence is their own partner. 92 percent – 92 percent! – the women's murder occurs in the closest family circle, in the closest social environment. That is not what I am saying, it is not the Social Democracy, because we want to exclude other reasons, no, that is what the Ministry of the Interior says; it is a statistics that lies in the ministry. If we read and watch reports in the newspaper, on television, on the radio, they don't leave us untouched. Much too often these terrible violences happen to women; it was only yesterday that a women's murder in Lower Austria was reported in the newspaper. Always the same thing: Every time a woman is murdered, at least for a short time there is bright excitement, indignation, and distress. The problem is just: This concern is only very brief and soon it will be over again with the attention to this very, very important issue from my point of view. We cannot accept this, we will not accept it and we must not accept it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We also need to be careful about our language, as we speak about what name we use for a women's murder. When we read about women's murders, there is often talk of relationship dramas or escalated separation. Is that what's going on? - No, I don't. Let's call it what it's like: It's murders, targeted murders of women or girls. Murder is the most dramatic expression of violence at all, there is nothing about it. Unfortunately, violence against women is not an individual case, there are not a few cases we are talking about here. In this respect too, the statistics for Austria speak a very clear language, from my point of view, far too clear and clear: In 2018, the police imposed more than 8,000 bans — in one year, 8,000! – and in violence centres, in the intervention agencies for women, more than 18,000 victims are cared for, protected and accompanied. The conclusion is clear: Most of the victims are female, and most of the victims are male. We have 16 days of action against violence against women behind us, yesterday was the last of them. ==References== ==References== In December, it was agreed to draw attention to these days of action against violence against women, which Women's policy, but it is a social issue and a problem. These action days direct the headlamp exactly where this problem is most common: in the families, in their own four walls, where it is hidden. That's the tricks, that's the tricks of this problem, because it remains undiscovered for a very long time, so it remains hidden from us as a society or neighbors of such a family for a very long time. Why does it remain undiscovered for so long? – Because of the fear: The affected women are afraid of their own lives and very often also afraid of the well-being of their children, who mostly also live in these families. They are afraid to seek help, most of the time they are afraid of even a doctor to visit a doctor because they could then become aware of the violence in the family in this way. It is this fear that also prevents women from seeking the way out of violence as early as possible. These days of action against violence against women make it clear that violence against women is not a private problem, no, it is not a problem for women alone, it is a general social problem that we are dealing with. These days draw attention to the fact that violence against women is all our problem, to all of us – and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us not all look away from here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But it is precisely us all here and beyond, of course, those who have to let these affected women, their children and their families feel and know that they are not alone and that we do not leave them alone, that there is help and a way out of their situation. That is why we are now again drawing attention to the fact that there is a telephone number which, unfortunately, is far too few known, namely the number of women's help against violence: 0800 222 555. That's not some phone number, but a call there can be a door opener from a violent situation. This can be the first step out of a situation from which women, regardless of their age and in what situation they are in, from which they cannot free themselves. This simply allows the door to be opened once a column. I myself was a woman's minister in many women's centres, and in one of them a 75-year-old woman told me that she only managed to get out of this decades of violence after 50 years of violent marriage through the help of women's protection centres and intervention agencies. – It’s never too late, and this phone number can be the first step out! We can't look away! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All of us in the House are called on to take action on violence against women in order to address this social problem decisively. We must ask ourselves where violence against women actually begins. Does it not also begin where women earn too little and thus create an economic inequality or economic dependence? – Yes, violence against women also begins there. Does violence not also begin where the self - determination of the woman is challenged over her own body? – Yes, violence against women also begins there. Does not this violence also begin where much too often the ascribement of sexist role images finds itself in our society? – There, too, violence against women begins. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is not just about physical violence. We are also talking about psychological violence, we are also talking about hatred on the net, of which too many women – mostly women – are affected. We must strengthen women, we must protect them, we must strengthen their independence in order to protect them from violence. Every woman and every girl has earned a non-violent life, and we are... It is responsible to ensure that, through fair income for women, through day-to-day childcare throughout Austria, which allows women to put work and family together and secure their own economic situation, and through important prevention measures in the field of women's policy. It is about expanding the protection of victims by means of the necessary financial means, at last equipping women's and non-violent institutions with the financial means they need to protect, accompany and support the women concerned. That's our job. In the area of justice too, we need judges and prosecutors who can better deal with this issue. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I say: Violence against women is an overall social problem, this concerns all of us and affects all of us. We are all required not to leave a woman alone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4193	I welcome Mrs Bundesminister Stilling and may give her the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4214	In charge of the affairs relating to women, families and young people belonging to the Federal Chancellery: Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! It is a good sign that the important issue of the protection of violence is again on the agenda in the National Council today and that Parliament has already dealt intensively with this issue in recent months. Home and relationships are the most dangerous places for women in Austria. We know that every fifth woman in Austria has suffered violence. In other words, violence affects one of five women in your neighborhood, one of five women who bring their children to kindergarten or school every day, one of five women you work with, and one of five women who are just sitting in front of the TV, and that in a home that is unfortunately not safe. I would just like to address these women and girls today and tell them the following: You are not alone with this experience, you are above all not guilty of this experience, and you do not need to be ashamed of it! [[General condolences.]] You can use help, and please do it too! The Austrian women's helpline is available free of charge and anonymous every day of the year. In addition, we also have a close and large network of anti-violence facilities that is there for you. We could also link this network of anti-violence facilities a little closer in the autumn, and we can now also offer professional advice services throughout Austria for women and girls who are victims of sexual violence. The employees in these anti-violence facilities and on the helpline do excellent work, even on the upcoming holidays and on holidays. More than 15,000 women were able to be supported again this year in these anti-violence centres. Delay Please do not turn to these places too! At this point, let me say a very big and sincere thank you to all the staff in the places of violence and counseling! [[General condolences.]] Her work as an employee in these advisory institutions allows many women to break out of a violent relationship. At the same time, however, we also know that the resources in these institutions are very scarce. The women's budget has not been increased for ten years. The fact that this is not enough and that more money is needed for the protection of violence also shows that in the autumn of the National Council a joint motion for a resolution for a more budget was tabled in this area and unanimously decided on, for which I thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this additional budgetary requirement, let me say the following: The increase in the women's budget by 4 million euros is essential and imperative in order to maintain the institutions and the advisory services. In addition to this EUR 4 million, more resources are needed in other areas of competence, such as social, educational, judicial and police sectors, to strengthen, for example, the groups of victims in the hospitals, in order to provide comprehensive process support for women and children, in order to increase victim protection-oriented culprits' work and to provide information across the country. Although we have comprehensive support for those affected by violence in Austria, unfortunately it is also a sad fact that many women affected often do not know where to turn and that there is appropriate help for them. We should therefore make all our efforts together to draw attention to the available offers from affected women. In my view, this requires a broad-ranging national information offensive, for which there is currently no budget. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to the next Federal Government, to ensure the necessary financial resources for this vital information work and for effective protection of violence in all areas. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Please think in the forthcoming budget consultations and in the negotiations in the National Council, where, understandably, many desires and needs are presented from the respective fields of industry and politics, such as those in Kitzbühel, Kottingbrunn or last in Mistelbach! The joint decision of all the political groups here in the National Council is confident that there will be more financial resources in the field of violence prevention and victim protection in the future. Financial resources are one thing. But the other thing is that we can all make a contribution together, each and every one of us, to stop the violence against women and girls. Violence concerns all of us. Don't look away! Don't look away when a woman is experiencing violence in our area. If we don't look away, we'll ask, we'll call the police, we'll get support at consulting facilities! I would like to encourage all the women and girls who are now listening to us and who are exposed to violence: Get support to help you get out of violence by means of a way, so that your home will be safe for you and your children too! You're not alone, and I promise you: We're not leaving you alone!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4297	Thank you. I should like to point out that all the following speakers have only a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mrs Juliane Bogner-Strauß is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4326	Mr President. High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Yesterday, the Orange the World campaign against violence against women ended. For 16 days, attention has been paid worldwide to the fact that too many women and girls are still affected by violence and that we need to do something about it together. Above all, and this has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, we must finally get this issue out of the taboo zone. Austria has participated for the third time this year, and I would like to thank all the organizers very much. UN Women Austria, Soroptimist International Austria, the Ban Ki-moon Centre for Global Citizens and He for She Graz have done great work. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] This year the campaign was about to make victim groups visible in Austria. 130 buildings were illuminated throughout Austria, of which 60 were hospitals. Victim protection is central, and the institutionalisation of the victim protection groups was an important step in Austria. For many women and girls affected by violence, health facilities are the first contact point. I would like to mention the victim protection report here, which shows that in Vienna 27 percent of all violence-affected women and girls first go to a health facility. There they learn support from professionals who are sensitized, who are trained, from professionals, who know where to look, and the victims receive a great medical and therapeutic treatment. But above all, it is also a question of ensuring that victims can then reach a conviction in court and in the event of an indictment. I would also like to thank the employees of the victim protection groups for their valuable work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] We have already heard it, the numbers speak volumes: In Austria, each fifth woman or every fifth girl is affected by violence. If you look at the European figures, you have to find that even every third woman is affected. That means we just have to do more to get these women and girls out of the spiral of violence. In 2018 there were 41 women's murders, 2019 we count until yesterday 34. What really makes me very concerned is that a women's murder in the media is often only a small marginalization, and often not as a woman's murder, but as a family drama. It is therefore up to policy to create a framework for women to find out from this spiral of violence when they are affected by a spiral of violence. Even better it would be if women and girls were no longer affected by violence at all. We have done a lot in the last government period: We have tied up a package of anti-violence measures, we have launched the extension of the advisory bodies on sexual violence and we have set up a screening group that has illuminated where the murders take place and why they take place. From this we can draw conclusions and, in future, create framework conditions and set good and future-looking, quite, very important – I say now; for all important, for society important, for the women and girls affected by it, important – initiatives are important – so that fewer women and girls are affected by violence. We've heard it before, and I'm asking you all to: Let's look and not look away! Yesterday, there was another margin note in the paper that a woman finally escaped her husband’s violence after five years. – How can it be that for five years no one has noticed that this woman is affected by violence? No neighbor and no neighbor looked? – I don’t think that’s allowed to happen, so it just needs more civil appeal. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would therefore ask you: Let us make it a better and safe place for women and girls, so that they are not affected by violence, together – we here together in Parliament, across party borders!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4399	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4421	Mr President. Mrs Frauenminister! I would like to start by thanking all the political groups very much for the fact that we can save this sign, this telephone number, the life, during the entire current hour here on the speaker's desk, so that we can put this sign together so that we can also document that this guide, which has existed for over 20 years and is being discussed in various languages women in distress, 365 days a year around the clock – that has already been said – can be reached. [[on the table on the speaker’s desk with the title “Women’s Helpline Against Violence: 0800 222 555 www.violence center.at × Police: 133”]] We have set another sign – the Minister for Women mentioned it –: All political groups have called for more money for violence and have decided to do so. But now I have to become a little critical: We could have discussed these issues in the relevant committees for a long time, but unfortunately these committees do not exist. It has not yet been possible for a equal treatment committee, a judicial committee – i.e. committees dealing with materials, women and the lives of women on violence protection – to begin their work because they have not yet been constituted. It is – and now I have to put the word in my mouth – the delays that prevent these rapid decisions. Delays can prevent and hinder these decisions, and they cannot improve women's living conditions either – only that I have addressed to the Greens and otherwise I do not wish to raise any form of criticism here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light peace.]] I want us to discuss in the committees. I would like us to discuss not only violence issues in the Equal Treatment Committee, but I would like to finally discuss women's desire – that was not possible either. I would like to discuss issues relating to the working life of women relating to the protection of children relating to maintenance. All of this was not yet possible, because, through the negotiations, I now say, through the ÖVP, I have heard that we are setting up committees here, because it is not yet certain who should receive which place of business. This is the most important thing when it comes to women and a better life for women in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Managing Director of the Vienna Women's Houses always mentions three areas that are important to shake women's lives in order to take preventive measures against violence: the police, the judiciary and all the many wonderful women in the women's advisory bodies, the intervention agencies against violence, the violence centres, the doctors, but also the science that helps women live a good life here. In the women's advisory institutions – there are well over 100 in Austria – the best way to know what women need in the areas of violence. But if the institutions are deprived of money if less is available if women may have to wait three weeks, six weeks, eight weeks or three months longer for an appointment, then this can also decide on the life of women. That is what I meant: that we in this House should finally stop accepting these delays so that committees can work so that we can make decisions here, decisions for women in this country. I think it's very important – and that was said by Pamela Rendi-Wagner – that we take women's fears: Fear of homelessness, fear that the entertainment will no longer flow and that the children will no longer have food at the end of the month, namely no hot food – I really mean lunch at home, which some single women can no longer afford. I would just like to briefly mention the proposal that we have repeatedly tabled: It needs more money, it needs more prevention, it needs good equipment for the victim protection groups in hospitals and for process support. It also needs an obligation for judges to continue training. Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, you will speak after me: Unfortunately, what you immediately abolished as one of the first measures, were the case conferences. [[Abg. Kickl:... again!]] The screening is good: We know now that it almost always happens at home. 92 percent of all women's crimes, murders of women happen in their own four walls. These Marac conferences – so we call them – have not taken place anymore, and you have then commissioned a screening that confirms what we already knew. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah that!]] Last sentence, Mr President: I would like to thank the Minister for Women's Rights because she managed to rework, that in all the federal states we were able to set up specialist advisory services for those affected by sexual violence, that she has resumed the dialogue with the NGOs that did not actually take place two years ago, and that the funding of the reporting agency for hatred on the network, which was introduced under Pamela Rendi-Wagner and which is also so important, is financially secure for the next year. – Thank you very much in the sense of women!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4488	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4510	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to start with the same thing: I think we all agree here in this House that we condemn violence in general and, of course, violence against women, that it is abominable for all of us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I also say that someone who becomes criminal in this way has to expect – and this is our view of things – that the full hardness of the law strikes him, and I think that when I come to this knowledge, we no longer encounter undivided commonness. I look at the left wing in particular here, because the SPÖ, who is acting here today as if the protection and safety of women were such an important concern, forgets that it is subject to a fundamental mistake. – The fundamental mistake in your view is that otherwise you are always representatives of a model of Kuscheljustiz, which in our view is the wrong access. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the inheritance of a certain Christian Broda, whose unspirit is still floating here above the left sector, and his dream of a prisonless society – actually a utopia, which I think is very badly torn by reality, even if you have not yet taken note of it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The biggest reformer was that! Shame!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have previously tried the statistics, the figures for the years 2018 and 2019 have been mentioned. You have to look a little more closely, and I'm just calling the last two cases, i.e. the murders 34 and 33 this year. Once it was a stateless man who struck Mistelbach – a knife murder, and a woman was stunned. In case number 33, Tatort Wien favorites two weeks ago, it was a 62-year-old Afghan who has admitted, and the victim is a 50-year-old woman and five-fold mother. This is something that you have now kept silent in the presentation of these cases. However, I believe that this is also relevant and deserves appropriate public perception. In this context, I am only talking about murder cases, i.e. the head of capital crimes, but one can understand this: You can just as well look down the sexual offences from rape. You can look at the body injuries. They can take a look at the mental violence and other mechanisms of oppression and excusiveness – it is then worth looking at more closely the criminal statistics. I'm just taking out one group, the Afghans. I don't know if it's worth mentioning that 84 percent of the Afghan suspects are asylum seekers. 84 percent of Afghan suspects are asylum seekers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Now I'm wondering, What does that mean when people who come to us and seek our protection will be punished in this way? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] There's something going in the wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you put it in relation and take the total number of Afghan asylum seekers, then come to the relation that of 1,000 Afghan asylum seekers are 300 suspects. Now I'm not saying that the Austrians are not committing crimes – for God's sake, that would be white displeasure, and that's bad enough – but we have a relation of 1,000 to 23. 1 000 to 300 and 1 000 to 23 are quite different dimensions. Also a result of the screening group you spoke about, but you are not hiding, is that 50 percent of the perpetrators are not Austrian citizens in cases that have been investigated there. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Well, let's talk about the other 50 too!]] I know you don't like this, so I'll tell you. I know that you do not like this, so at the time you also asked me to the President, when I made sure that public reporting also mentions these facts, because the Austrians have a right to know this and that there is no silence cartel on these things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is to a large extent imported violence, since you have to name things. [[Abg. Kogler: This is already the largest part...!]] What's to do now? What to do? – The package has already been addressed with many important measures: Notice obligations have been extended, there is a ban on approximation, the case-conferences have been introduced, and the institutions we have deducted have therefore withdrawn because they were inefficient, and we have replaced them with more efficient ones – I say so. It's a component. However, we must also ensure that people who already have asylum status with us then, if they become criminal, of course lose this asylum status again – and not only when they have committed a capital crime, as the current legal situation provides. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a joke that you just have to wait for someone who first strikes and becomes hand-in-hand, then at the end becomes a murderer, so that you can even think about whether you can deny his asylum status. This is also a discussion that we should hold here, whether in this case human rights do not protect the wrong ones, namely the perpetrators and not the victims. Our liberal position is always that the victims are to be protected and not the perpetrators. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] So it needs the component of prevention, but it also needs severe punishment. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Let's talk about the FPÖ congregation in Kitzbühel!]] It also needs severe punishment. This is also an act of justice to the victims, and no one understands it when harassers, if hits, when rapists are attacked by the justice with glacé gloves. For this the population lacks any understanding. There is once a neat entry into the narrow pot, so that these people also get what is due to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4643	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4659	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, with left-wing dreaming à la Broda, with resocialisation fantasies, whose success we have received impressively confirmed by the example of Jack Unterwegers, you will not be able to get far and can also increase the safety of Austrian women. I have not expected anything else from red and green; that the ÖVP is now also beginning to fall in this direction, is a bit disappointing for me and also belongs to the category of treason of voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4686	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4707	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I am already annoyed by the remarks at the beginning of your speech. The way in which the committees are established is correlated between all political groups, and as we are now trying to establish a connex between coalition negotiations and women's murders, it is totally indisputable and unacceptable. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: For five committees, not all!]] We reject that and I am personally disappointed. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] When we talk about violence against women, we talk about abuses, threats, sexual harassment, sexualised and psychological violence, both in the real and in the digital world. The number has already been mentioned: In the course of her life, each fifth woman experiences physical or sexual activity. Last Sunday, a woman in Lower Austria was amazed by her partner – that was the 34th. Women's murder in Austria this year! In Austria, most women are killed by men in Europe. Violence against women knows many facets, but neither income differences nor social membership, geographical boundaries, origin or religion. No, Mr Kickl, patriarchal attitudes and patriarchal patterns of thought, violence as a conflict resolution method are not imported. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes!]] Violence against women is not imported, men are injured, men are killing women everywhere. In Germany a woman is killed every third day by her partner or ex-partner. “The Time” has written down each of these murders. I quote from the documentation: ‘He shall bring them [...] ‘by stump against the neck’. He initially hides the dead woman in a garbage bin, the body is on fire the next day. He has repeatedly beaten and threatened his girlfriend, also strangled, their family members out.” Yes, this description makes speechless and affected, but I tell you the following: We are not going further with speechlessness and with the rhythm of concern, ladies and gentlemen. We have not been elected for speechlessness, for the rhythm of concern. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need to improve in the area of violence prevention and the protection of violence, that is what the experts from the judiciary and also from the victims of crime tell us. They all have the force package decided by the last government in autumn, the package with 1. January 2020 enters into force, critically criticised, and I share this criticism. Figures such as the following also support this criticism: In 44 percent of the women's murders, a ban had already been imposed on the perpetrator. In the area of risk detection and also preventive perpetrator work, therefore, there is obviously an acute need for action. I like to highlight this again: Prevention from punishment so that violence doesn't happen at all. In fact, intensifications in the area of violent and sexual offences will not lead to a reduction of the same level. Instead, what we urgently need is a clear increase – that has already been mentioned today – in the budget for the protection of violence and also for the prevention of violence. We must also remember particularly vulnerable groups of women, such as women with migration and refugee history, because unlike women who have a dense social network in Austria and have sufficient language, migrants often do not know where and how to get help. We must also put emphasis on where we create structural framework conditions for equal pay and economic independence, because one of the reasons why women remain or return to violent relations is economic dependence on the partner. That is why I strongly support Austria's participation in the time-use study of the EU Statistical Office Eurostat, which makes the economic value of unpaid work visible and thus also a prerequisite for a fact-based equality policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are now head shakes at the FPÖ, which is known to reject participation in this study. You do not quite have equality policy, you see it at your parliamentary club. Five out of 30 Members are women, and you seem to care. I, ladies and gentlemen, believe that we Greens are equal and non-violence, but these are central concerns for us. That was so, it is, and that will always be the case – and everyone and everyone who is sitting here in this plenary room knows that too. Violence against women is a structural problem which is due to patriarchal power and stereotyped gender roles, and if we want to fight seriously the causes of violence against women – and that is hopefully our common goal here – then our actions must aim to break up and change anti-female structures, because every woman, every girl, has the right to live their lives independently without being afraid of it. – Let’s join forces for this right!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4783	Mrs Brandstötter is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4805	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! Dear spectators at the top of the gallery, at home in front of the screens and tablets! This week started quite normal. A woman was shocked by her partner with a kitchen knife. She is – and you can't say it often enough – that 34. Victims alone this year! This means that on average every ten days a woman dies by the hand of that man who pretends to love her. These women are shot, beaten, suffocated, ignited and beaten to death, and the most dangerous place in the world for women: in their own home. My first speech as a new female spokesperson of NEOS is therefore on a subject that we unfortunately still have to talk about, namely femicides, murders of women. We must understand these murders in their brutality, because only as clear as the problem of violence against girls and women in Austria is. In no European country is the proportion of female victims in murder crimes as large as in Austria. Women's murders are often not referred to as what they actually are. They are called family tragedy or bloody single dramas, so it was just about bloody single-sicksales or individual files that, as tragic as they may be, are unfortunately not to be prevented. But behind these stories is a scheme. Men still believe far too often – and across all circles of society – that they can have women, and that has long-term consequences. Violence destroys the lives of entire families and communities, and it also meets subsequent generations. Currently, victim protection facilities such as fire brigade have to race from one fire to another, delete and continue again. However, in order to be sustainable, the institutions must be able to provide long-term and wide-ranging care for victims, for example the children of victims of violence, so that the trauma does not go on for generations. How, then, can the work of non-violent bodies be improved and facilitated? – That’s quite clear: The financing of victim protection facilities and preventive offers must be put on new feet. At present, the situation is such that the facilities simply lose themselves in the jungle and can't plan practically how it goes on. We therefore introduced a series of requests to six different departments and asked how much the respective funding in the field of violence was needed. I'm sure you're safe. One of the results: In 2018, five different departments spent more than 12 million euros on funding for projects, associations and organisations. However, the problem of the institutions is that they usually have to submit their applications to several ministries, and there are also various funding points at national, district and local level. The funding itself is often limited in time, and this in turn leads to an overwhelming bureaucracy on the one hand and a lack of planning for victim protection facilities on the other. In order to ensure effective protection of violence and the best possible care for victims of violence, it is therefore necessary to increase the transparency, transparency and planning of funding, as only in such a way that there can be a pre-planning and effective operation of anti-violence facilities. To ensure and thereby reduce violence against women and girls is a policy task. The resolution of funding by the federal government should therefore be based on a body which will then also ensure coherence in the funding. We are fighting NEOS for this, and we are also putting forward a resolution to that effect today. In this important matter, I would like to appeal to all my fellow Members, first of all to the EIA and to the Greens, that they should include this really important point in their negotiations, so that we can make it more effective in the field of prevention work, more sustainable culprit work and better victim protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4860	Mr Steinacker is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4881	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! First of all, let me hold on to SPÖ: We have a fully functioning Parliament! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We agreed on the need to discuss and decide, where appropriate, on all the proposals from the Government and any proposals for initiative we make in the Budget Committee. It is quite clear – as usual in the past – that: Only the Federal Ministry Act lays down the division of the department. Only when this Federal Ministry Act is in force or is adopted do we know what responsibilities there are for which committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] For this reason, the constitution takes place gradually. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] All the important functions of Parliament can be properly exercised accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have spoken about this tragic case last week. I can express my deepest and warm condolences as the very first and foremost of the family and the family, because this situation is difficult and needs all our compassion. It makes me inconceivable that in the event of minor offenses and inconsistencies in the family, people see no other way than to reach out to knives and admit people to murder. Our stated objective is and must be to protect people from violence, especially women and children in Austria should not be afraid. We adopted the package on violence in September and took good action. Mrs Disoski, it is not just a question of increasing penalties. to make sanctions more stringent. On the contrary, under the leadership of former Secretary of State Karoline Edtstadler, we have adopted a whole bunch of measures, involving sufficient experts. Together with the most important experts – lawyers, doctors, psychologists, therapists, representatives of various organizations, victim protection institutions and violence centres – we have launched a wide range of initiatives. For example: Women can now change their name and their social security number so that they are not found by their tormenters, by the hazards. We have extended the ban on entry; it is no longer just a ban on the kindergarten or the workplace of women, but it is a ban on approach, no matter where the person at risk is present. This is a good measure that really takes place so that the people concerned can live their lives at least with a better distance from safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have strengthened the optimal cooperation between the various organisations by setting up the new security police conferences, which I consider to be the most important measure. What does that mean? – In the future, police, victim protection institutions, prosecutors and communities will cooperate according to the case constellation and will launch the necessary protection measures for the people at risk. We have established the case conferences with the police because it is a clear responsibility for a clear responsibility, and we have arranged for the exchange of data to be possible. This is a very important point: to ensure, on the one hand, sensitive data protection in this area, but on the other hand to exchange as much data as necessary so that people's safety can be ensured by the measures. We have also accepted the perpetrator. The chapter Working with the perpetrators is a very important element, because in the end it is all about the fact that violence does not arise at all and prevention is effective. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the end of the day that does not produce so much violence? – It’s about better education and it’s about better communication to enable people to resolve conflicts non-violently. In the event of conflicts, it is said not to look away, whether in school, in the family, in the circle of friends, everywhere. Let me therefore make the following remarks – I think we all have to make this clear again and again: Women are not objects you can own or anyone has a claim to. Let's do it! Women are equal partners in relations and make free decisions, and these decisions are non-violent. – That should be of course. Ladies and above all gentlemen here in the House, please stand with me on these statements! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Women's and child protection must be worth something for us, even in financial terms. I am in favour of this and I shall endeavour to create this financial framework for security, with full force, to protect the rights, to protect women and children, so that the sad statistics are part of the past in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4982	I can welcome the students of the Montessori School Unterwaltersdorf to our home. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Next, Mrs Yildirim is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5017	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students! Stop violence against women – an important issue, a subject which unfortunately does not end. My previous speakers have put forward some important and very right issues and arguments here. Leave But I should like to take up two points which have already made me very concerned, especially with the speech by Mr Kickl. I would like to remind you at this point that Christian Broda, who for 19 years was the Minister of Justice of the Republic, has modernised this society and made it safer for women. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, more than 30, 40 years ago, Christian Broda did something very visionary, which my previous speakers rightly discussed over and over again, namely to address prevention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Violence prevention, ladies and gentlemen, is victim protection. Yes, I am for every perpetrator to feel the full hardness of the law, but so hard can no law be that a criminal, when he is released, may not perhaps become a repeater. That is why it is very important to remember what we should remember from a great visionary and European, as it was Christian Broda: that prevention and resocialization, ladies and gentlemen, in which criminal punishment, in execution, are quite, very important so that an act is not repeated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We do not degradate such important areas to the “cushion justice”! Victim protection means perpetrator's work. Many figures and statistics have also been mentioned today. Who are the violent ones? – These life-threatening acts of violence are unfortunately, unfortunately to the greatest extent of men. You, Mr Kickl, were significantly involved, while Mr Deputies were very busy and not present at the time of his Federal Chancellorship. What really shocks me is that he is not present on such an important issue on violence protection. I would have expected Mr Kurz to sit here, listen to this, perhaps to speak and explain why these 100 protection sites promised over two and a half years ago were not created. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why do we have to deal with these 34 murders today? – How much more could we have done if you had not been wasting time with your populist law-and-order policy! How many lives we could have saved! How many women affected by violence could we have protected if we had finally set priorities here, not just had made headlines, ladies and gentlemen, if we had committed acts and invested money! It does not do anything, the best law does not protect against violence if we cannot help the advisory bodies, if we give the judicial authorities and if we do not provide the appropriate resources, give them no resources and do not assist them in carrying out their legal tasks. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Weratschig.]] The screening group has demonstrated that 50 percent of the perpetrators are not Austrian citizens. – By allowing anyone who has done whatever action, I don't care about the origin, it's important to me that any action can be prevented. But because you're riding on it like that – Afghans, asylum seekers –: 9 percent of the perpetrators were Afghans, asylum seekers! - That's terrifying! I do not want to apologise at all, but I would also like you to have the life and integrity of There is also concern about Afghan women. It should be for you to protect every woman here. We know that such acts are not to be prevented by tougher laws, otherwise there would be no criminal offences in countries where there is the death penalty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] At this point I would like to appeal again to the women's advisory bodies, to the victim protection institutions, to provide the necessary resources. You know that the package has not only been criticised by victim protection and advice institutions, but you know that legal practitioners such as the judiciary, prosecutors and courts have also spoken against it. I think the issue is far too important to beat populist little money from it. I think it is important that we finally act and make serious policies here for the protection of women and children in this country and actually implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5108	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, violence against women is a very serious issue. I would like to extend the subject a little because today we are constantly talking about violence against women and girls: Bubs are also victims of violence. I would say that violence against women and children is a problem that affects us all, ladies and gentlemen. If I can now make an analysis towards the end of this debate, I note that today many of the men's positions of power, a Patriarchate living here, have been spoken of – but, ladies and gentlemen, of the left half of the empire, these are those groups of society, these are those groups of people you are bringing into the country, active. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] You can still feel so bad about it now that it's all not true – well, the statistics speak a clear language. Of course, there are far more foreign perpetrators, violent perpetrators, than there are domestic perpetrators – only in relation to the number of those in the country. In short, to my predecessor, who wants to protect Afghan women: I am already with you, but the question is how many Afghan women live in Austria. That's where we have the problem. The men were mainly admitted into the country. They were all standing at the West Railway Station and they also applauded when they came. And what happened after that? – The wave of violence has increased. I remember New Year's Eve 2015, not just the events in Cologne; of course, this was all about the world. We had the same problems in Vienna, we had big problems in Innsbruck and Salzburg. These were all asylum seekers, who had then become violent perpetrators – violent perpetrators of young girls and women. [[Abg. Kogler: That's wrong!]] That is not acceptable, you have to address it. And we are facing this very problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you make yourself up now and say that doesn't matter to you that every culprit is one too much, I'm right, every culprit is one too much. But with regard to those you bring in, you have to, please nice, once question your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens: Is it the right policy that, on the one hand, one opens the borders for all and operates this foreign policy when one sees, on the other hand, that there are major problems with it? There were 34 murders so far, that's the tip of the iceberg. Let's hope it stays there and that no one will be able to do it! However, there are daily rapes, robberies, body injuries, and there the statistics show quite, quite massively in one direction. You know, ladies and gentlemen, and there's nothing to do if you make a head-in-the-sand policy and say: There are also Austrians who are criminals! – Yes, there are, every society has domestic criminals, but it is not necessary to import into us any more. Let us talk about this very problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How can we become the master of this problem? – It is good that there are hotlines, it is also good that there are women’s houses, but, ladies and gentlemen, now to do as if money is the only way, is not right. The case of a woman who has been beaten for five years has already been mentioned today, and for five years no one has noticed it. Why doesn't anyone notice? – Because women do everything they can to hide it, because no one likes to admit it and says: I am in a dependency relationship, in a sexual dependence, in a financial dependence! But it is – and we have to say that again and again – that: There is the possibility in Austria for every woman to free herself financially. There is a very good social system in Austria, which does not leave a woman on the street. It is important and right to say that it is also there the Republic that covers all women. There was no evil black and blue government that created poverty, but every woman will continue to receive the financial support for herself and her children she needs. You've been panicking, you've said: Oh, poverty will rise, the single parents will all starve! – It does not happen, but every woman in Austria can be sure that she is not financially dependent. It is very important to stress this as well: Women who live in a violent relationship have the opportunity, if they manage to separate – and there is now the problem: if they do it psychologically, they have to do so; not the financial issues are the problem; it is often the psychological dependence on the partner that prevents them from doing so and that it inhibits them – that they are not financially dependent. It is our task as a policy, but also the task of each individual to create an awareness in this regard and to see if there may be dim possibilities in the environment. The health facilities have already been mentioned. They are schools where violence is often discovered. It is the general social institutions where one may have to look at more on the one hand at times, but on the other hand it must also be cautious with pre-conceptions, for of course, teachers also fear to say something, because it may be a false suspicion. So there you have to create really low-end possibilities. But what irritates me a little about this whole debate: We stand here, we complain of a Patriarchate, which is so terrible in Austria, and at the same time we only demand money. That's not gonna make us do it. We haven't made it that way in the last decades. We know that financial support for women's advisory institutions has increased gradually in recent years – and yet violence has become more. I would like to join my colleague, Steinacker, in the hope that she will be less, but I tell you that violence against women will increase. This is not because I have hell-seer skills, but because I know that we continue to allow violent perpetrators to enter our country, that there are already many here who will strike in the next few months and years; and then there will be a discussion here again, in which you will complain how bad that is not all, but at the same time you will never question your own immigration policy, whether it is really the right people who bring you into the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5190	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5212	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Every violence is too much, I think we all agree here – hopefully. Many, with the exception of my previous speaker, have already mentioned important points, but I would like to extend the discussion to include a subject, namely violence against older people and especially older women, because one thing is clear: Violence does not end with increasing age. The same applies to older people, women, but also men, as to younger women, namely: The most dangerous place in terms of violence and abuse are their own four walls, is their own home, because in Austria it is still the case that two thirds of all the needy people are cared for by family members at home. A gender-sensitive view is important for several reasons. The same applies at age: Women become more often victims of violence than men. Women get older than men and are also more fragile and needy. While women often care for their partners and husbands at home, they are then cared for even in external facilities. Unfortunately, violence against older people and especially older women is still a taboo issue. The silence may also be linked to the fact that in this case women are also often the perpetrators, for: Who lives close to family members at home? - Women. Which groups of persons are active in care professions, in social medical professions? - Women. In addition to the violence in its own four walls, however, we must not forget the violence in old-age and nursing homes. I remember Kirchhettes or the incidents in Graz. It is statistically proven that because women live longer, 80 percent of those living in the home make up. These incidents, which I have now mentioned, are those that have come to the public. But how many of these incidents will never come to the public? – Many, many! At this point, it is also very important for me to say: My greatest respect is due to the many dedicated staff members in the care industry! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] These persons do excellent work under no simple conditions. It is not these employees, nor the relatives, nor, of course, the people who are cared for, but politics is responsible for ensuring improvements. It is up to us to ensure that these people can age in dignity. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] The keyword is Wille. Yeah, it needs a will, but it also needs courage. It takes courage to address these major reforms that are necessary in the care sector. All of us here can agree on a policy, we can take enough financial resources, take enough money into our hands and ensure better and more decent conditions in the field of care. These people I'm talking about are our mothers, our grandmothers, our grandfathers. They've built this country. We are the ones who benefit from it, we are lucky that we live in one of the most beautiful and richer countries in the world, and we also owe it to these people. Our task is to return something. They deserved it. To be outraged when a new scandal comes up again is not enough. We've heard it today: It's not enough to be outraged. We must act, from prevention work to better training for the care workers. The experts have done their homework, they have drawn up sufficient suggestions for improvement. Now it is up to us to implement them. We have to do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5282	Mrs. Stilling has been reported to speak again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5303	In charge of the affairs relating to women, families and young people belonging to the Federal Chancellery: With reference to Mr Belakovich's statements, in order to prevent any misunderstandings, I would just like to say that, due to the budgetary framework in recent years, it was not possible to increase funding for women's and girls' advisory services. That is, these have remained at least on the federal side for many years. Unfortunately, there was no budget, although it would have been urgently necessary to grant a budget increase.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5331	Mr Bernhard has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5352	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to add a very different aspect to today's debate, one which, in my view, has not yet been sufficiently honoured, namely not only the question of domestic violence, but also what it means for the family when violent crimes occur when violence belongs to everyday life and the smallest of our society, say children. It is about children who grow up with it, for whom it is natural – in the normal case, of course, the mother is affected – that violence is exercised, that psychological violence is exercised, that violence is a kind of communication. What causes this in a child? – This, of course, gives rise to a great deal of uncertainty. This causes a great emotional stress, which triggers a feeling of fear, of powerlessness. Sometimes it also causes a sense of guilt – unjustly natural, but in this child very, very many feelings take place, which a child should not normally have. We don't talk about one, two, three children a year that might be about this – and even that would be too many! – but only in connection with the violent crimes known to us, we speak of 5,347 children who were called witnesses in 2018. 5 347 children in some form have had to make a statement that someone in the family – in most cases the father, the companion, the mother’s partner – was violent. The question is: How do we deal with such a situation? Regardless of the fact that we have to condemn and prevent every murder and heavy violence, if we can, we also have to deal with how the smallest in our society is. Victim protection facilities, child protection centres, intervention agencies, as well as the Children's and Youth Prosecutions and the Public Prosecution Office have already made very often clear demands, which it takes to ensure that these children are truly well cared for and well accompanied. They have complained about what is currently missing in Austria. There is a significant lack of personnel, the number of people currently being made available by the Republic and by the countries is simply not enough to provide sufficient care for the children. There is a considerable financial shortage and there are no uniform training standards in childcare and youth care. But now I'm wondering – that's not a new topic, that's nothing that's working on us for the first time today –: What has the last turquoise-blue government done quite specifically, except to bet against what Mr Kickl once again showed us very imprecisely? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Krisper.]] In concrete terms, we have done the following: On the one hand, the budget has been further reduced, one has taken 1 million euros away from the family advisory services – 1 million euros! – that means – one has also reckoned this – a year of 18 518 consultations less. On the other hand, child and youth assistance has been relocated. If one hears from all bodies that it needs uniform standards in education and in the definition of how to work with the children, and if one hears at the same time that this is being ended, one knows what that means: There will be no uniform standards. ÖVP and FPÖ have also made sure that there is less consultation. In fact, we are not talking about a lot of money, but we are talking about 1 million euros for the right measures. What it takes, apart from child care, is quite clear: We needed a corresponding awareness of judicial and prosecutor training. It is about dealing with children who have been witnesses to violent crime in their mother. There are scurrencies that are really incomprehensible. For example, there is no legal claim to trial support if a child becomes a witness to such a violent crime and is not a victim himself, that is, only a witness. That means a child who is pushed into a court proceedings in which it is subjected to enormous emotional stress, because it must speak against the mother's own father or against the mother's companions and is not even clear how it goes on afterwards, is not even accompanied accordingly. You have to imagine that! It is therefore quite clear that as soon as the Family Committee and the Justice Committee are established, we will bring in our proposals for improvement, because we believe that special attention is needed not only in the fight against violent crimes, but also in the monitoring of children who have seen such crimes. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: You know that we liberals are very often talking about freedom. I believe – especially when I think about these children now – that fear is the greatest enemy of freedom, so my very concrete call to our parliamentary work here and today is: Let's make sure that children can grow up free of fear! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5418	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:28:55]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5440	We now come to the current European hour on the subject: “The major challenges of the new European Commission” I should like to warmly welcome the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs to the debate. Mr Lopatka is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5470	Ladies and gentlemen! We have consciously given the current hour of Europe the title “The great challenges of the new European Commission”. [[The speaker laid the table with the title “Women Helpline Against Violence: 0800 222 555 www.violence center.at × police 133” turned to the speaker’s desk.]] Why did we give them this title? – Because within the European Union the individual Member States face major challenges and the European Union as a Community is increasingly dealing with neighbours who are becoming more complicated and challenging. What do I mean by that? – By far the most important and economically strong Member State of the European Union, Germany, has a federal government, which is increasingly concerned with itself as a result of the decline of the SPD. France is the second largest economy in the European Union; President Emmanuel Macron wants to implement a necessary pension reform and is faced with the fact that hundreds of thousands of other demonstrators now go to the street after the yellow vests. As he said, he wants to implement a fair pension reform. Privileged groups, who can retire early, like the railways, do not see that. This pension reform is only presented today, but already on the weekend France had come to a halt. In Italy, we have the new government just 100 days – a government formed by two parties, which were actually archenemys. [[Abg. Kickl: That's still ahead of you!]] The only thing that holds this government together is the fear of the Lega and of Matteo Salvini. The government is already fighting because it has to do something together for the first time, namely the budget – really no easy task. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, but let's come at our own door!]] - No, we have to see that! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, of course, but the difficult... to discuss!]] From the Leyen it is not easy – and the Council is still meeting this week – if the national heads of government have such stones in the backpack. This is not the case with the Austrian government. Austria is in a different state! I'm telling you that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] This is the big difference: If our head of government is in Brussels, then in the past we have not been plagued and it will not be in the future that a government that is in reality so disquieted or so weakened is sitting at the table in Brussels. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Now it is...! Now it's going to be really exciting!]] Or look at Spain, where you have chosen four times within four years! Then there are quite other questions that should be taken very seriously: The journalistic murder in Malta or with our neighbor, Slovakia. You can't just turn away from that, so I understand the people. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Who's doing that?]] – No, we should not do that, but we should just see the problems we have within Europe when it comes to the rule of law when it comes to corruption, and we must do everything in the country that we can do that positively. [[Abg. Kogler: Exactly!]] That's what I want to tell you, no more and no less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (Congratulation donating) There you can only clap!]] [[Abg. Kogler:... in Europe?]] Why do I see it that way? – Because the challenges are also growing outside Europe. Turkey has been further away from the EU in the last ten years – and Russia as well. Perhaps a few days ago there was a counter-movement in Paris; certainly I am not. I had the opportunity to speak to the Ukrainian ambassador who was here in the house right before I spoke. He sees a shimmer of hope. More than 12,000 people have lost their lives in our immediate vicinity in these military conflicts in Ukraine. A neighbor who is becoming increasingly important to us is Africa, and above all North Africa. There, too, there is little to see from democracy. Around us, authoritarianally run states are, and those who are further away geographically, when I think about China, are closer, not only economically in the middle of Europe, but also trying to influence the further development of the European Union politically. On the other hand, the US, our world's most important partner, and the current President, are relatively far from Europe. This is the framework that the new Commission President Ursula of the Leyen finds for her work. I was in Brussels yesterday and yesterday. Of the Leyen, their priorities have been presented in an interparliamentary group, and I am optimistic about this Commission because it is very, very close to what we are always talking about, namely, bringing this European Union closer to the citizens. What are their work priorities? – The first priority, which people feel quite clearly, is to achieve something in climate protection. I spoke today at our EU main committee meeting with colleague Köstinger, who had been in the European Parliament for a long time, and she told me that during the nine years she was in Brussels, she had a special meeting once. This afternoon there is another special session of the European Parliament, because the Leyen issue is so important and it has put it at the top of its agenda. In "My Agenda for Europe", she states: ‘A European Green Deal’. The second focus – hopefully not too late; some say that this is just a match between China and the USA – is digitization. It's very important that we don't get there. [[Abg. Kogler: Let's write the Von-der-Leyen speech into the government program!]] – The speech is too little, Mr Kogler! I think the decisive thing is how the next German government as a strong government can support it from the Leyen. The Leyen needs strong governments and especially strong pro-European governments. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes!]] And even without the help of the Greens, Mr Kogler, we have stated in the last government programme that we are a reliable and active partner of the European Union. So we have seen the last federal government and so we see the next one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you see that as well, it is all the easier to get concrete results. [[Abg. Kogler: You have not written in that Ibiza is a volcanic island!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] – Another volcanic island, far away from us, has now become more busy with the public, and also in Ibiza a volcano has broken out, but a political one. I am telling you, it is not our problem to address the matter pro-Europeanly, but we believe that the right priorities are set. The new thing I didn't hear from Jean-Claude Juncker is that Ursula speaks of the Leyen that she is the European Union – and she is taking the word into her mouth! – wants to make a world power. It wants to make it a world power by gaining more credibility when it comes to climate issues when it comes to the rule of law. It would like to discuss in principle at a future conference how it should continue in Europe. I asked her directly yesterday if she would also like to involve the national parliaments. – I was pleased that she said quite clearly, not only does she want to involve national parliaments, but she has to do so because otherwise the project has no chance of being successful. If we want to bring the European Union closer to the citizens in the face of the major challenges I have raised, we also need to focus more on European issues here in the House, because of course they also concern us directly, and the Green Deal it has at the top of its agenda is a very important point. I very much hope that the Leyen will be able to keep the European Union open. What do I mean to keep it open? – The fact that France does agree that the Western Balkans will have a realistic perspective for accession to South-East Europe. Disillusionment among these states is huge. Since 2003, we have been consoling North Macedonia – then it has still been called Macedonia, now it is called Northern Macedonia – again and again. Now this name dispute has finally been settled and we're beating the door for now. It is not about accession, it is about starting accession negotiations. For us, for Austria and also for the new Federal Government, it is very important to do everything that this European Union remains open to new members, and to do everything that the European Union gains in credibility again. With this program of the Leyen can succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5694	I welcome the ÖVP women from Styria, at the head of the country president, quite cordially here in the House. [[General condolences.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5725	In charge of the EU, Art, Culture and Media affairs belonging to the Federal Chancellery: Mr President. Dear High House! My Dear Ones Ladies and Gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity that I can speak to you today on the issue of ‘The major challenges of the new European Commission’. ==References== We have a new Commission with Ursula from the Leyen on top of it in December, and tomorrow the European Council will be meeting for the first time under the new President-in-Office Charles Michel. That means we can finally start work – and work is enough. Ursula from the Leyen and their team have repeatedly publicly declared that they do not want to lose time and want to create a new dynamic from the first day. This is positive because Europe needs new momentum and Europe needs new momentum. Expectations are great, and the list of challenges is truly long. The Commission intends to present substantial new proposals in the first 100 days. Starting – we have just heard it – it will become one of the central themes of the future of our time: climate change. The Commission is the first major project to present its proposal for the Green New Deal. This is to become one of the lighthouse projects of the first 100 days of the Commission and is rightly also the dominant issue at the forthcoming European Council. The EU's Heads of State and Government should be clearly behind the climate neutrality target by 2050. Austria fully supports this goal. It is also clear that we cannot achieve this objective alone. Only in conjunction with our partners in the EU are effective and sustainable measures possible in the climate sector. However, the difficult discussion we had at the European Council last June also showed us all that the measures to be put in place in the climate field must be designed in such a way that they do not restrict the competitiveness of the European Union and its Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal of climate neutrality 2050 will only be possible with and against the economy. In addition to the measures to reduce CO2 emissions, it will also be crucial for Europe to become a pioneer in climate technology and innovation. The transition to climate neutrality should not only be seen as a challenge. As the forthcoming European Council points out, it also has great potential – potential for growth, for new business models, for new jobs and for technological progress. This opportunity should be used. Austria will be actively involved in the work at European level. Of course, there will also be a focus on promoting renewable energy. We are facing a particular challenge in this area, however, because it is no secret that many Member States are putting their nuclear energy very explicitly on the road to climate neutrality. Our attitude to this is quite clear: Nuclear power is and does not remain a safe or sustainable form of energy generation for us. This is a very clear red-and-white-red attitude and line that I was only able to deposit in Brussels yesterday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next challenge concerns the development of the European Union itself. The European Commission will present the concept for a conference on the future of the EU in December. This conference will start next year and run until 2022. I think we all agree: The EU must not be stoned, but must be able to develop further. Much goes without changes to the Treaty, quite clearly, but it is certainly right not to exclude them immediately from the outset. Citizens' proximity, efficiency, decision-making capacity, democracy, these are the keywords to be mentioned. We For example, the European elections should not and should not promote top-level candidates in order to select completely different people at the end of the day. The conference on the future of the EU offers an opportunity to make improvements and we should take advantage of this opportunity. However, this process will only be successful if, on the one hand, very clear framework conditions are defined in advance and on the other hand, this process is inclusive and is designed at eye level. Citizens, civil society, national parliaments must be part of this process from the beginning, not just the EU institutions. The Commission's next major future project concerns enlargement – an issue that is particularly important to us. Unfortunately, as you know, in October God failed to reach a positive decision to open accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. This is a serious strategic mistake from our point of view. [[As a result of this, the Commission has taken the view that, in the light of the information provided by the European Parliament, it is necessary to ensure that the Member State concerned is ……]] The non-decision challenges the reputation of the European Union as a serious partner in the region and could result in a step by step loss of influence in the region. We can't let that happen. Our attitude to this is quite clear: Without the countries of the Western Balkans, the European project is simply incomplete. This is about our immediate security interests, but also about the credibility of the EU as a player capable of exporting security and stability instead of importing uncertainty and instability. It is now necessary to achieve a positive momentum quickly. In this sense, the Commission will present a proposal for a reform of the accession process in January. It is thus responding to a demand from France that blocked the decision in October and called for such a proposal. Austria will actively participate and actively participate in this process, but from our point of view, it is essential that this process, this reform process, is not misused as delay tactics. We have also made this clear in a letter to the Commission; a letter that is now supported by 14 other Member States. We have agreed to enter into a discussion on improvements in the enlargement process constructively and objectively – improvements are always possible – but only in understanding that this is accompanied by a green light for the opening of accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. It is now about ensuring that the EU is at the end of the day and that recent developments in this context are only a blowhole and not a stop sign on the road towards the EU in the direction of the Western Balkans. However, the debate on enlargement policy is also symbolic of another subject, which is repeatedly formulated as an accusation towards the European Union: The EU is not an international player, but just a payer. Although Europe is the largest trading block in the world, the largest single market in the world and the largest donor of humanitarian aid in the world, we often fail to convert it into foreign policy capital. The European Commission has undertaken to change this, and this is, of course, to be welcomed. We need to use the existing possibilities and instruments much better. A first discussion at the beginning of this week with the new High Representative Josep Borrell with the EU foreign ministers was already very promising. These are, of course, only small steps, first steps, but the goal is clear: Europe should be better able to put its weight in the scales and to represent its interests and values internationally effectively. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, one of the major challenges of the new Commission is, of course, also to ensure the prosperity and competitiveness of the European Union. In spring, the Commission intends to present new strategies for digitisation, industry and economic location. This is also urgently necessary: Europe needs new impetus in order to maintain its position as an economic and commercial area in global competition. According to a review study, only 15 percent of the world's most valuable companies come from Europe today; In 2009 it was still 27 percent. That is, within ten years, our share has almost halved. It is about ensuring our long-term prosperity, our jobs, our social systems, in short: the European model of life. In order for Europe to be the world's leader in the future, we must strengthen innovation, invest in research and eliminate overregulation, and we must not be afraid to rethink our competition rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of challenges could, of course, be extended almost infinitely: Migration and security, relations with the USA, China, Russia, is also very important in the European Union's internal relationship with our values. – On all these issues, however, it is very important: These major challenges cannot be solved by anyone in Europe alone! That also applies to us. For a smaller country, such as Austria, which is in the middle of the continent and which depends on export, European integration is simply and decisively alternative. That is why development at European level must not be indifferent and therefore must and will continue to contribute to Austria in the future and make an active and positive contribution. The EU has proved often enough in the past that it has the courage and willingness to design when it comes to it. I am confident that we will succeed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5837	Mrs Köstinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5858	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to Mr Schallenberg for the very good statements on today's current European hour, but above all also a warm thank you for his careful commitment in recent months at international and, above all, at European level. I think we all felt very, very well represented by him – thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The current European hour could not be more up-to-date, as the new President of the Commission Ursula von der Leyen today presents her work programme for the next five years and places it at the centre of her work, namely the sustainable transformation of Europe. We have in Austria and in almost all the other Member States of the European Union, in particular, the issue of climate change and climate protection as one of the key challenges of our time on the political agenda, and this will now also be taken into account by the European Commission in the form of the Green Deal presented by the Leyen Ursula. This is good and right that the European Union is really moving forward with good example. With us in Europe, in the European Union climate protection is now one of the top priorities. We see, however, above all, not least at the current climate conference in Madrid, that many countries are much more reluctant to act there and that countries like the USA, which is one of the major issuers worldwide, are leaving the Paris climate agreement. We must, however, make our contribution, especially in Austria, which is completely out of question. I believe that, above all, we have the great opportunity to show that climate protection does not have to be a burden, but that with an intelligent conversion of our economic and social system, climate protection can really also be a model of the future and, above all, a model of prosperity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Europe is an important player in the fight against climate change. We have also shown, above all under our Presidency, that the large swivel screws in Europe are to be sought and found. There are now proposals, such as a European CO2 minimum price or the question of CO2 duties, which can be lifted across Europe for imports, on the agenda: These are exactly the right switching levers that we need to serve; these areas, especially from the Austrian point of view, must be absolutely supported. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also tried to implement this very clearly in the months of the EU Presidency. The Europe-wide reduction of CO2 emissions in cars is such an example. We have managed in months of negotiations to prescribe 37.5% less CO2 for new cars. This brings an effective savings of 180 million tonnes of CO2 for climate protection in Europe. The same applies to trucks, as the reduction will amount to around 30 percent by 2030, which is about 54 million tonnes of CO2, which can be actively saved through the new legal regulations that we have created during our Presidency. But we were particularly concerned about renewable energy in Europe. The conversion of our economic system will only work by giving priority to renewable energies, and we have also been able to implement this in our Council programme. But we also see in this area that other countries in and above all outside Europe are going a completely different way. China, Africa, Asia – new coal power plants are being built in all countries. While we have shut down the last coal power plant in Austria this year, for example, China is currently building a coal power plant with an output of 37,5 gigawatts. This corresponds approximately to the total coal flow of the Federal Republic of Germany – only to allow an approximate assessment. We went a completely different way in Austria. A few weeks ago, we made available 450 million euros for the expansion of renewable energy in Austria. Thank you once again to all our colleagues in the House, who have supported this request accordingly, so that we can make massive progress in the expansion of renewable energies in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The last issue I would like to address very briefly refers to something that we must take very close care of. If we want to be CO2-neutral, then the way for the expansion of nuclear power plants must not be pave the way through the back door. This is the big danger that slumbers in this green deal. We as the People's Party, in particular, will have a watchful eye on this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5946	Klubobwife's representative, Leichtfried, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5979	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is not a bad thing, Mr Lopatka, but it must not be disassembled. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is the preferred word of the SPÖ: disassemble!]] Mr Lopatka and also Mrs Köstinger, you have tried the word credibility very often and now climate-politically tells the greens down from heaven. I have only one question to you, to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: If climate policy is so important, tell me why the EIA MEPs in the European Parliament have actually voted against the call for climate change, with the exception of Othmar Karas in the vote! Ladies and gentlemen, please explain this to me. Ladies and gentlemen, the new President of the Commission has spoken about a new beginning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] This is urgently necessary because Europe needs a change. Many people do not trust this Europe anymore, and the European Commission is likely to be called on to counter it, especially as a clock. In many areas it is necessary to change course. Are we creating the trend change in climate policy? Will there be enough jobs for the future in Europe? Do the big corporations finally pay taxes? . One could still list dozens of such problems that have arisen because Europe has set too much on wrong priorities. In summary, however, we can say why people with this Europe, with our Europe, are dissatisfied: Europe has not complied with the promise of prosperity for all citizens. You have to say that quite clearly. The scarcity between the poor and the rich has grown, and there has been a development that makes people in our country and throughout Europe dissatisfied. If you want to change that – and we have to change it together – then you have to start with hand-resistant things that people feel, with small things that have great effect. I ask you how a construction worker in the South Styria comes to put pressure on companies that benefit from European law to the extent that wage and social dumping is taking place in us. Such a construction worker in the South Styria then does not understand the European Union. You would have had it in your hand to turn it off, but you did the opposite in the old Ibiza coalition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or: How do the bookstores, the pastries, the small shops, the sausage stand help to pay more taxes than Amazon, Google and all the others? –This is also something that needs to be changed, and must be changed as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From Austria alone, companies are moving over EUR 4 billion on a legal basis in tax havens in order not to have to pay taxes. The Austrian Minister of Finance avoids almost EUR 1 billion each year of tax revenue, and that is a change. Then it finally happens that the European Commission, which has not always been a pioneer in issues of fiscal justice, starts an initiative, then finally this happens! It is finally proposed that Member States should at last report the tax benefits of large corporations so that they can see where they are paid and where they are not paid. And what does Austria do? – Austria is against it; and this is still the decisive voice, so that this does not happen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This is not a European policy, as we imagine it. This is not a European policy that benefits people in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a European policy that benefits people once we are Austrians pioneering in the areas of environmental protection, the protection of people, the protection of our landscapes, by prohibiting a large majority of the plant poison Glyphosate, the European Union has nothing against it, and then its own Federal Chancellery tries to turn it off. [[Abg. Double builder: Make a proper law!]] We have a chance to change this today. We have the opportunity to vote in favour of a request that changes this, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to: Let us use this together and in Austria we will finally end this plant poison today! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6053	Member of the Bösch European Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6074	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals are committed to a continuous and constructive development of the European Union, according to the principles set and formulated by us in the half-year of our presidency, when we were also part of the Austrian Federal Government. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we, together with the government partner, agreed that the Union should take care of the major issues and that the Member States should be able to take effective action on the smaller ones for whom they are responsible and where they are able to take effective measures. We have not left this line, we will continue to maintain it. We now see through the new Commission the chance of a new beginning. But we cannot share the euphoria, as some previous speakers have said, because we do not yet know enough about the policy of the new Commission in order to be able to assess clearly the direction in which it is going. Only the resistance to defining a field of “protection of our European way of life” makes us stand out. What is the spirit of policy at European level in the coming years, if the protection of European life is not to be an essential reason for the European Union to exist first at all and then to make policy at all? [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] Climate issues are crucial. We recognize this, but we must point out that we do not fall into hysteria in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Federal Minister, I am grateful to you for speaking here of intelligent climate protection and also of the fact that measures in this area must not destroy the competitiveness of the European economy. In this direction, I believe, we as the Republic of Austria should continue by supporting the policies in the climate area with house understanding. On the basis of the climate debate, the issue of illegal migration has come to the fore – in our view completely wrong, because this threat not over, but has even grown in recent years. In the context of our government participation, we have also tried, in particular, by Minister Kickl and Kunasek, to propose measures to ensure that the European Union is able to secure the external border. However, we do not see any refocused and efficient measures that show a credible step in this direction. We must assume that in 2019 – and this has been documented by the European Union itself – 50 000 illegal immigrants already have more than in the year before that we have a total of half a million – 500 000! – will be exceeded and that the fact remains that two thirds of these centres are rejected because they do not have sufficient asylum protection. Ladies and gentlemen, this should still wake us up. We should recognise the threat that lies in the neighbourhood of the European Union: I am thinking, above all, of the regions of Turkey and the Middle East, but also of North Africa. This mass immigration is still threatening Europe to break out, and we are invited to take measures to deal with it. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Because of the Union's non-efficient external border protection policy, Member States are forced to ensure the protection of their borders. The FPÖ has repeatedly, and now also in the beginning of the legislative period, put forward applications in the direction that police and military must be sufficiently equipped and prepared to meet these challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to be aware that the development of the European Union depends essentially on how we will solve this issue of Cardinalhood, namely the stop of illegal mass immigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6150	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Werner Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6172	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The follow-up of the speakers according to the strength of the election results in the National Council election is due to the fact that I am usually talking to the FPÖ representatives, and that is why I have always been so confused in the face of my speeches. But I would like to make one clear: When it comes to climate protection and when it comes to the new Commission of the European Union, this is good because the President of the Commission is making absolute progress on the subject. I now take positive note that my previous speaker Bösch meant that climate change, the climate crisis – I don't know what you're going to get through – is recognized as a phenomenon. It wasn't always like that. Now I tell you – so that we can get to the point, because it will soon be boring; many criticize that the negotiations take too long – which is the difference whether green or blue are in government negotiations: It's not been so long since climate change liars in the government are horrified. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Chemtrails!]] We remember the Strache’s Greenland pearls; that’s completely absurd! The Greenland beads can be found when world policy continues, because then in 50 years in Greenland really grows wine; then it is tragic, because then a billion people have been cut off in the coastal areas. The difference is whether to go further or not. So let us come to something more encouraging, to the European Commission and to Madam President of the Leyen! She's not really a green party member. [[Deputies Worm and Ernst-Dziedzic:Not yet!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] - Yes! “Not yet,” he was good; possibly. You have to leave that to the FPÖ, you can still bluff. You don't know if that's good, but you can do it. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] You haven't heard the points yet, you don't have to laugh yet! Of course, the President of the Commission, when she is a black woman, often enough to go to the central European Union, comes back as a green person – an inner fate. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The Green Deal – formerly Green New Deal – is a good thing. This is a good thing because it is more or less about putting the central issue of survival of mankind at the heart of the tasks of the European Union and finally combining economic reason – yes, first – with the ecological turnaround and the social compensation needed. By the way – yes, I have learned from the EIA, and really and honestly – it also needs regional compensation for this, because different measures have different effects. But it is primarily a question of finally bringing economic, environmental and social security into one's hands; yes, it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If this does not happen – we do not know what we bring together on this globe – then there are serious problems. With regard to the question of migration, I can seriously refer to my previous speaker: It is certainly a problem, because no continent in the world will be able to cope with it – only for classification and orientation: on other continents it is much more difficult than in Europe – and the causes of escape will grow massively if nothing goes on. Now I'm back to what you've heard of me many times: Yes, we will not make it from Vienna, from Austria alone; that is already clear. The Union has a central task, and it can do so. We on this continent are innovative enough and economically strong enough to make a little progress. That is why we should become pioneers and all countries should make a contribution. Madame von der Leyen gives the right direction, so we can cut ourselves off for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] It's not enough time to clear down what it would be like to do to us what woman says about the Leyen. Yes, we will now begin to represent this in the government negotiations because in this regard, as you have taken the media, the lighthouse has not yet been fully constructed. [[Abg. Kickl: What have you done so far?]] We need to take out a pit light so that something goes on at last; I mean that seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is so reasonable not only to listen to Mrs von der Leyen, as Mr Lopatka correctly said, but also to set the target of reducing 50 to 55 percent of emissions by 2030 – in Austria it may be a little less, but not too much less – but also to write into a government programme. The set of measures: We need CO2 pricing, we need the regulations – depending on more or less – and we need investment for an energy transition, a transport turnaround and an agricultural turnaround. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In these three areas, something should go further.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6289	Mr President, I should like to ask you to make the final point.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6304	I'll finish. If we do not understand that in a market economy, prices and cost-truth are crucial for economic success and in this case ecological success, then we have not understood market economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6332	Next speaker: Ms. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, president of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6353	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Mr Lopatka, I would like to apologise to you for bringing you out of the concept of your speech, which is not quite clear to me, through my calls. A Mr Gerhard Tauerschneider wrote to me that he would not want to see this, but that I should concentrate on what I am capable of, namely on the child war. I just want to say that I will now refer to your speech from the speaker's desk and to why I believe that maybe it should have been a little more visionary. “The major challenges of the new European Commission” is the title of this current European hour. I would like to add a little bit of this, including the challenges that are currently being faced in European policy for the next Federal Government. It seems very important to me that we as the Austrian Parliament in one phase – and that is why I said, Mr Lopatka, “we are coming at our own door!” – which I would call not quite stable intermediate phase, talk about what Austria and Austrian politicians really want to play in the future development of European policy. I believe that the Commission's process has now been completed, is good, and that the Commission is working on it is also good. We are indeed faced with major internal and external challenges, which I will briefly outline. Internal challenges: Great Britain is just in the middle of an election campaign, the Brexit is at the door – this is a big internal challenge that we have to solve. They have also addressed a few other challenges, in connection with the Italian Government, of course also with the increasingly populist, nationalist forces and also with the really blatant problems in relation to the rule of law, liberal democracy and fundamental and freedom rights in other states. These are very big internal challenges. I don't think I need to call external challenges. Apart from the fact that the geopolitical security situation is extremely unstable, the United States with Donald Trump is no longer a reliable partner for Europe in many respects. What we have known for many decades as forces, as weights in the world, is no longer valid. China has also been mentioned; China is not only an economic challenge, but also, above all, an economic challenge, and especially for Europe. There's a system dispute behind that, if you want to, which has not yet been disputed. I would like to say for myself that, as a NEOS, as an Austrian Parliament, as Austria and also as a Europe, we should go a very self-confident way, this path of Europe's fundamental and freedom rights, the market economy, Liberal democracy, human rights and social and environmental compensation should continue and should not be confused by new global protectionist or authoritarian tendencies. The rule of law will certainly be a major issue, because we cannot see how EU treaties will be violated. We cannot see how the independence of justice will be cut. We cannot see how freedom of the media will be cut in our neighbouring countries. We cannot see because, ladies and gentlemen, it is about our values. Europe is a community of values, based on liberal values of freedom. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I very much welcome the fact that the European Commission has called the European Green Deal as the crucial project for the next few months, and I think it is essential. I am also very pleased that the request of the Liberals in the European Parliament to call for climate change has been accepted. Now the emergency situation is there, so to speak, on the paper, but that does not mean that measures will follow. I have great expectations in the European Commission that this issue will now be addressed in order to really achieve the objective of keeping warming below 1.5 degrees. We must, however, take care of what measures we are taking. I would like to draw up a point which I see as critical, namely monetary policy. In recent years, we have experienced a very expansive monetary policy with low interest rate policy, which, of course, has fueled consumption very much. Now, from a supposedly neutral monetary policy to a green monetary policy, with the effect of expanding and continuing, I think it is very difficult, because there are several objectives in conflict, namely, consumer increases and effective climate protection. If you want to do so, best climate protection is also a hard currency in this respect, and therefore, of course, more for the citizens of Europe, who may be able to rebuild something that is in low interest times -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6404	Mrs. Club President, you have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6420	The final sentence is: It is also about the attitude of the next Federal Government. If Austria really wants to be a European player, I expect more than the confession that you are pro-European as a government, then I expect you to solve the challenges of this time by making a commitment to a higher budget and really playing a role in the further development of Europe in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6447	Mr Martin Engelberg has been mentioned as the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6468	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Dear guests! For me, an EU discussion is always one that makes me feel that we could do a little bit of party-political crocheting. But when I listen to my previous speakers, I have the impression that you can't completely leave it. The government of the last two years is obviously responsible for developments that are much more long-term, which are going back in a time when, after my memory, Federal Chancellors gave of another party – just from the one from which criticism now comes. I remember the Bonmot, as a result, there were German chancellors who, in their opinion, drove to Berlin and then came back with the opinion of Federal Chancellor Merkel. I can only tell you one thing: I am very glad that Sebastian KurzAustria will be coming back to the European Council soon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After there have already been some speakers from my party, I would like to address just a few additional topics: The one that is always my heart, is the Brexit, not only the Brexit itself, but the question: How's it going after that? We are already tired of the discussion – you can see that clearly – but sometimes forget that the great task is still ahead of us. If Brexit is carried out – and we have to assume it now – then the great task comes to us to redefine relations with the United Kingdom as a non-EU member. That is, as I see it, a much greater task than that of negotiating the withdrawal agreement. That is to say, it is a comprehensive free trade agreement, for which there is no model so far; we really want to be as close as possible to Great Britain – and vice versa – and at the same time, of course, we must insist that there cannot be the benefits of EU membership for a non-EU member. That means that this is a big challenge. The issue of Western Balkans, I believe, has been discussed in detail. It is – we should keep in mind this again and again – all about the question of the neighborhood. At least it is for my generation, for myself, so that we often lose sight of the historical connections and also the proximity to these countries. I always tell the Anecdote that when I first flew to my mother's birthplace, the pilot told Lemberg – today's Lwiw in Ukraine – that the flight time from Vienna to Lemberg is the same as after Altenrhein in Vorarlberg. That is to say, it is also necessary to raise awareness, namely to go how close the countries in the East or in the Balkans, on the Western Balkans, are that this is also being perceived there, but also to the fact that it is very positive that we are working for them, for their accession perspective; and this should really be continued. I think that we as politicians, even here in Parliament, are required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last, but not least, as a spokesperson for development cooperation, of course, the EU's relations with Africa, with the African countries, are a personal concern. Even during our EU Presidency, there was the EU-Africa Forum, and it is extremely important that we continue to work on this partnership, at an eye-to-face partnership, and finally there again, similar to the Western Balkans, to ensure that we strengthen the EU's position vis-à-vis major powers such as China, Russia and the Gulf States that represent their interests very vehemently and manifestly there. However, we must pay particular attention to compliance with minimum standards, minimum standards on human rights, the rule of law, democracy and women's rights, and acknowledge that human security is directly linked to peacekeeping. I would like to conclude by saying: Every human being has an inalienable right to life and free development, and we want and should want to do the world over. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. The EU should be the driving force for peace, but also for good economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6541	Next item is the report by Mrs Julia Herr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6562	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the EU Commission is presenting its Climate Change Plan, which is to lead us into a climate-neutral future. The aim is to make the EU climate neutral by 2050, which means as much as that in 30 years only more CO2 emissions can be emitted, as we can store ourselves, either through trees or through our soil. This objective, ladies and gentlemen, is simply and simply achieved if we want to create a future for all people in the European Union in the long term, which also guarantees an intact environment. That means: Yes, the intention and the current headlines of the new European Commission sound good and promising. We all know, however, that no gram of CO2 is saved by headings alone, no climate is saved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know what it eventually needs is the courage to change. It needs a real Green New Deal, a great reconstruction of our society, which promises not only climate protection, but also a right to work and social justice. Climate protection must not be an elite programme, it must represent the interests of many; the interests of those who cannot buy themselves free from the climate crisis, who cannot simply buy certain certificates like a government or a company, if the CO2 balance once again looks bad; the interests of those who cannot escape and who are already suffering from the climate crisis and will do so much more in the future, that is to say, the interests of those for whom the climate targets cannot be achieved quickly enough. However, there are also other stakeholders who may be small, but still billions hard, and these interest groups have been consciously on the brake for years because they benefit from the current system in the literal sense. For example, let's look at the area of transport: The automotive industry in Germany has already mentioned the new climate change plans of the European Commission, and the outgoing head of the German Industry Association has chosen us that we should not be able to formulate even higher climate targets now. This is one of the sectors in which one of the biggest and millions of heavy lobbys in Brussels has been working against strict regulations for years. Addressed to its own responsibility is argued with the rules of the market: In the end, the decision to protect climate was not the decision of the Group, but the consumer and the consumer – and the responsibility seemed to be the same. Whether that's true, I want to show by means of a concrete example – don't worry, I stay on the subject of traffic –: A major problem in the European Union is air transport. As we know, this is 50 times more harmful than the train traffic, and yet the numbers are rising. But we are also guided by the fact that it is the fault of the citizens who choose the plane and not the train. But is that true? – Probably hardly if the pilot is five times as fast as the train and costs ten times less, so if trains travel for an average family are not even manageable at the moment. Last week, when I arrived at the climate conference in Madrid, I saw again, which unfortunately, in 2019, still means: For a train trip you need 30 hours, it costs several hundred euros. [[Abg. Kickl: But actually you shouldn't have gone!]] – Of course, you have to go if you seriously mean climate protection; You don't, Mr. Kickl, I do! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Why? You're gonna get it like that, aren't you?]] At this point, it should be noted that responsibility should no longer be constantly shifted to consumers, but that – and this is what I demand – should be placed elsewhere: Why is nothing done in terms of taxes on air transport, while in terms of rail traffic there is such a great deal of use? For example, why is there no kerosene tax, no VAT on ticket prices for flights abroad? How can it be that the wages of flight staff have been pressed for years to create a cheap flight offer? Why do EU-wide investments for low-speed and high-speed trains fail if they have long been common in other parts of the world? – All of this is political will and all that must end with a Green New Deal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That's what I'm gonna end up with. This is exactly what a Green New Deal means for me: with a concept of Just Transition to ensure that no one remains on the track, that in a CO2-neutral future we can all provide our labour force in the context of an employment guarantee, that today's mechanics maintain the environmentally friendly mobility of tomorrow, that technologically enthusiastic young people can guarantee a new kind of energy supply and that investments in research, in new industries, will also create completely new jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6622	Please put the final sentence to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6637	This is what we demand from a Green New Deal: an investment programme that creates jobs and saves the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6667	The next speaker was Mrs Susanne Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6689	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the largely empty words have now changed enough: alternatively without climate protection, climate panic, green deal, future conferences to which people are piling to thousands by plane. – I can order you from Antarctica that there are the lowest temperatures since their measurement history, there you are far from edge and band – so much for global warming. From the Arctic, I can order you from the polar bears that they are quite good that their number is stable. But what they are really afraid of is the liberalisation of hunting restrictions, because then they are really taken down by human beings, they do not want to. We all know what is behind this great topic of climate panic: It is intended to be alarmed in order to allow for rules that are not possible at normal safe, peaceful times. However, these regulations do not serve to protect climate, to protect the environment and to protect our homes – they are not meant to pursue this agenda – but rather to restrict the freedom, security and prosperity of EU citizens. There is a single lighthouse to which the new EU Commission President Ursula will devote himself from the Leyen, who is so far dark as the Eiffel Tower if he is not illuminated: This is the Schengen tag. We are going back to the EU's founding agreements, which are about secure, closed external borders. Schengen has meant great freedom of travel without border controls in the interior. This was always only the one side of the medal, the second side were always closed, secure external borders: no border controls inside, for moving border protection to the external border. In the Schengen Agreement, there is still a word to mention the “preventing the illicit entry of persons” from third countries. There you can only laugh more bitterly – we all know how it came: Hundreds of thousands of people walk in and out of the way they fit, come completely uncontrolled, uncontrolled to us, choose their favorite Member State – where there is most social benefits – and the EU – unfortunately, the Commission and its institutions, ensure that we cannot cope with this attack, but that we actually have to let it go about us. Special supporter of this course is the long-standing companion and friend of the new President of the European Commission, Chancellor Angela Merkel, who, in the time of the largest attack in 2015, also claimed that there was no way to protect borders – an incredible statement by a German Chancellor who had spent her childhood in the GDR. They have been able to protect the borders so well that even their citizens – their own citizens – could not leave the country. Ursula von der Leyen was by the way of the defense minister at the time and could have been quite helpful in dealing with the attack, but there were more other pressing problems in the German Bundeswehr, such as uniforms for pregnant recruits, on the question: Fit pregnant recruits also in tanks?, and so on. These were the really urgent things. It has thereby given up the German Bundeswehr of ridiculousness; the price for it is now still paid. The EU must do everything to protect the external borders; it must do everything it can to stop illegal migration, which is an alternative. Only then will the EU be respected and respected in the world: if it is able to protect its borders. That's just an alternative. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only then can you be a big player and only then will you really be taken seriously and can exercise the power of language. Return agreements with African and Asian countries of origin need to be concluded, which is really only under pressure from the EU as a whole. They have to take back their citizens without if and if they do, otherwise financial, trade and visa assistance to these countries will be stopped. You've got enough pressure. Asylum must be reduced to the original sense of the Refugee Convention: asylum for individuals who are individually persecuted as long as the threat persists; Asylum in the next safe neighbouring country – and not flying around the world and choosing a country there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All further assistance and services not required by the Refugee Convention are at the voluntary discretion of the Member States. They can do this – Mrs Merkel can continue to invite all the world to Germany as long as the Germans can do so – but the Member States must not be forced by the EU to do all these things: mass family succession, residence rights, asylum and teaching – so everything is just Inventions of the Judicture and the EU institutions, which are not required by the Refugee Convention. All are allowed in and are then required by the Member States to re-distribut and take up, which is deplorable and illegal.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6755	You now have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6770	The following shall If this complex is regulated – we now also have a new budget Commissioner, the former Novomatic board member Johannes Hahn will certainly manage it well, that he makes enough money available to meet this first huge challenge, but it is a commitment to EU citizens -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6789	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a speaking time limit of 5 minutes. The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6804	Then you can devote yourself to the other challenges. My final sentence: Ursula from the Leyen, climate protection – yes, she should not fly around so much, she should stay in Brussels, should work in her matter, then she does not need so many consultants and - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6828	Ladies and gentlemen, we have jointly decided on the Rules of Procedure and the rules on speaking time, and it is therefore also important that we stick to them together. [[In the case of the FPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Prince.]] Mr Michel Reimon, you will speak next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6859	Madam President. Dear Colleagues! A Commission climate change programme with a conservative President of the Commission is certainly not the green dream, but yet this programme is ambitious, good and in so far as it deserves support. It is sad that one hears from the Council that the governments are already beginning to screw again and that they want to have something away, have something there and want to get it back down again. This is not what I would expect of governments, nor what I expect from an Austrian government, nor from the future. If this Commission operates an ambitious climate programme, it will have the full support of the Austrian Government in the future, then Austria will have to stand behind it with all its strength. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we don't need is that there and there, also through Austria, something is cut away again. If other governments are starting to block if other governments are putting pressure on this climate programme and trying to undermine it, I expect an Austrian government to resist it and then put pressure on such governments and say: No, we can only do this in pan-European terms, and we are committed to it, we support such a programme, we even want to strengthen it, and we do not allow it to be undermined! I specifically address the Hungarian government and the Polish government and also some other governments in south-eastern Europe who simply do not want ambitious climate policy to exist. The Poles want to reduce their lignite for another 20 years. This will not be the case in a European Union, and I expect a strong position from the Austrian Federal Government – also the next one. Let's see how this works. It is possible that two pro-European parties will soon be sitting in an Austrian federal government, who will then be able to pro-Europeanly and try to make this constructively progress. Perhaps it's better than it has been in the past than it has been in the last two years when Austria has not played a constructive role, because it's not enough to point out and say to other countries with its finger: You are destructive! As a member of the European Parliament, I give you an example when Austria really behaved in this sense: All 28 governments have kneaded in Liechtenstein because in Liechtenstein foundations are used to hide tax evasions. These foundations had to report to the European governments when citizens had banked money there. Long pressure was exerted on Liechtenstein until they surrendered and it was said: All financial offices in the Union shall be informed. Who refuses – three days before it enters into force – to be the only country to be informed about it? - Austria. If you are going about Austria in the future and your black money is bunked in Liechtenstein, you are safe throughout the European Union. That's what we did. This has not been repaired in the last two years, this hole is still open. Those who deal with their partners in the European Union may not play a constructive role. I expect that this will be different – and better – in the future and that we will take care of such measures. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs von der Leyen has also stated that the European rule of law and the protection of the European rule of law are particular concerns for her, and we must say that is particularly supportive. It has also stressed the Hungarian and Polish governments in particular – even in this case, problems. Here too, she deserves our support, even there Austria has to change the course in the future. There is a former Minister of the Interior – ah, he comes – who, from the speaker's desk, threatens and acts as if they were all criminals. [[in the direction of the abg going to his seat. Kickl]] [[Abg. Kickl: Then you didn't listen to me!]] It is good that in the time when he was Minister of the Interior, a European Commission looked to the protection of the rule of law – and that will be the case in the future. If other governments were to deal with you in the way you deal with peoples, they would say: It must be assumed that at some point all the liberals land on the dock and go behind bars for corruption, so let's all accuse them once in a while! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hauser:... times Statistics from...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] – You are protected by the Commission. I'm glad she's dealing with you like this! Be glad that there is the European rule of law! [[Abg. Kickl: Take a look at your negotiating partner! Check it out, if you trust!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6949	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6970	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Since the European Union is, in particular, a place of rule of law, freedom and justice, I might immediately say that it is today a day of joy for freedom, for citizens' rights and also for parliamentarianism in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a day of joy for organised crime!]] The Constitutional Court has just declared that after a third complaint by the representatives of the NEOS and the SPÖ of the Federal Trojans and the registration of the car markings had been abolished as unconstitutional. [[Complementary and jubilation by the NEOS as well as by the Greens and by the SPÖ delegates.]] This is primarily a rejection of the comprehensive surveillance fantasies of Mr. Kurz, Sobotka and Kickl and, second, a brilliant success for freedom, for the civil rights of people in Austria and for our democracy. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would like to thank, in particular, all those who have helped in the last three years, for this struggle against Herbert Kickl's surveillance fantasies has lasted so long – and he has fought him himself for a short time until he has changed his opinion –: These are quite, quite a lot of employees from the NEOS Parliament club, these were NGOs, they were lawyers and that was, together with us NEOS, the SPÖ Group, then leader Hannes Jarolim, who is unfortunately no longer a Member. I would like to say a very great thank you once again because this day of joy for freedom and for the rule of law in Austria is something very special. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] In order to address the specific issue of the European Union and the challenges: A big question is whether one should first deal with the content or with the structural issues. I believe that both issues have to be dealt with at the same time, because many changes to the institutional questions will also make it easier to answer the questions. The change in the Treaty of Lisbon is now almost twelve years ago, i.e. we have something to question, and Ursula von der Leyen has proposed something with her future congress, which I think is very positive in principle. We NEOS have always called for a broad involvement of citizens in a convention to ask where the European Union should go. There are a few things that are particularly important to me here: First of all, it is about the European Parliament, which is actually a very comprehensive working parliament, finally receiving the rights it should have, namely the right to move forward legislative initiatives. The European Parliament is the institution directly elected by the citizens, and it is therefore absurd for it to be preoccupied with these rights. When I speak of directly elected institutions: I believe that you should also consider whether you should not be able to choose other institutions directly. The very unworthy spectacle in the back rooms of Brussels in connection with the appointment of Ursula von der Leyen has again shown that it is important that the President of the Commission or the President of the Commission should also be directly elected by the citizens. The question is important, and that has already been raised by different political groups, whether the European Parliament at last agrees on it – Parliament does it on and on itself, it usually fails in the Council – that it has only one seat and not two more. Not only in times of climate change, but also in terms of efficiency, it is not possible to understand why thousands of people from Brussels to Strasbourg once a month have to travel to Strasbourg, thus paving up a lot of money on the one hand, and on the other hand damaging the climate on the other hand. This is an example of where the European Union has a wide-ranging need for recovery and change in the institutional field, namely the principle of unanimity. In the question of Single Seat the French say: We do not want this!, it is other countries that say: I'm blocking there and putting in a veto so that nothing goes on! . Especially in cases of serious violations of fundamental rights, serious violations of the fundamental values of the European Union, it is also true that one country is making the wall to the other and thus making the principle of unanimity impossible for genuine sanctions. Of course, such profound changes in the Treaty are very complex and will take a lot of time, but I believe that these profound institutional reforms do not go by. We face major challenges in Europe, whether climate change, whether it be the rule of law or – and I am also going to conclude – the question of how we can achieve a comprehensive and sustainable guarantee of fundamental and freedom in the future, so that these surveillance fantasies of ÖVP and FPÖ, which the Constitutional Court has given a clear rejection today, cannot continue to exploit in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7034	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:46:59]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7055	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7453	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed motion 110/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues on the implementation of necessary measures for the protection of players in gambling. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent action shall be called at least 3 hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 15.47 a.m. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7476	In order to be able to negotiate items 8 and 9 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 8 and 9 are the reports of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Leoben for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Councillor Wolfgang Zanger, 17 of the Supplements, and the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Graz for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Herbert Kickl, 18 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal of the time-limit for committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7509	It is also proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 and points 4 and 5 of the agenda should be summarized. I ask if there is any objection. - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7531	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP 146, SPÖ 101, FPÖ 83, Green 75 and NEOS 60 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 30 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the just-described speaking time. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We are going into the agenda with this. [[12:50:05]] 1. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 50/A by Dr Stephanie Krisper, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Grant of Asylum (Asyl Law 2005 – Asylum G 2005) (12d.) 2. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 87/A by Mr Karl Mahrer, Mr BA, Mr Delegate on a Federal Act amending the Foreign Police Act 2005 (13
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7597	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I also warmly welcome Mr Wolfgang Pessorn for this debate. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7624	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are now talking about a change to the asylum law. I would like to put a motion for a resolution at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is broad consensus on this issue. Turkey is actively mixing militaryly in the Syrian Civil War, causing a humanitarian disaster and a refugee crisis, almost no human rights standards, as we imagine them. It is not a European country, especially – and this is the crucial point. So I'm looking for your consent, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now for the real reason of the debate, namely the area of asylum and teaching and the special arrangement that you want to create in a colorful party alliance today for asylum seekers who are in education. Ladies and gentlemen! This whole debate is not only completely inaccurate, but it is in fact also highly lying and a single farce.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7679	Mr deputies, I would ask you to take back the word ‘lying’. We have agreed that this choice of words in this House has not lost anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7694	I will not take it back in this context and will explain -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7712	Then I'll give you a call for order. I would like to ask you, in the course of your speech, to stick to the agreed rules of the House and also to ensure that we do not want to violate the dignity of the House. [[He welcomed SPÖ, Greens and NEOS as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I will give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7748	I'll make an effort. Why is this debate not to be justified and dishonest – if we want to use a different term? – Here, on the one hand, everything is manned and mixed, what there is to manipulate and mix. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] Asylum is mixed with immigration, an integration debate and an economic debate will be launched, which has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic: That's what you do, otherwise nobody!]] What's this about? – It's about asylum law! They all know very well: The right to asylum is an individual right in which individual examination is carried out: Is there an asylum ground? Asylum is protection and help on time. Is this reason for asylum, this reason for escape, this individual persecution in the home country, or not? If independent courts in several instances find that the grounds for asylum are missing or no longer present, that person must be postponed. We can thus end the debate! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They're bringing forward arguments. I cannot imagine that this is really an honest and objective debate, even if Mr Schellhorn is always referring to the alleged economic need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We know that most of these apprentices are trained in the gastronomy. This is an important segment, but I do not think that in Afghanistan, for example, the demand for waiters is as high as you believe. I can't imagine that at the best of will. [[Abg. Loacker: An economic expert for Afghanistan!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Apart from that, we have some 30 000 asylum seekers in Austria who are unemployed reported to the AMS. They can and should always pursue any activity and, of course, also a teaching, ladies and gentlemen! Where's the problem? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are several thousand Austrians who are looking for an apprenticeship. Our task as an Austrian politician should be primarily to see that in this country we find and create a proper training for our own people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Yes, eh!]] The second thing you always bring into the field is this integration debate. This is, in fact, a completely empty integration issue. It may be that some are trying to learn the language and cooperate in the Community. I have already said it at the beginning that it has nothing to do with the asylum procedure and asylum law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] So this whole debate is really a joke! I don't understand that the ÖVP has made such a radical turnaround here and has fallen down. Sebastian Kurz has, even in the debate which we have held more often in this House during the past legislative period, warned against opening door and door to further demands through such a special arrangement. We have now seen this with this Afghan from Langenlois – so, I think, the village – who is in a monastery school for social professions for school education. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Care professions!]] There will be demands for all those who are in school, for those who study, for those for whom any demands can be derived. That's exactly why Sebastian has rightly warned with us. The whole debate on these asylum seekers, which is not being postponed, is, in my view, an inconceivable legal form because the novelle has not yet been decided. It's supposed to be one of the ÖVP's best to explain to me now how you stand for it. It really can't be that before the law is passed, that's how it is done. That's not an apprentice at all! That's really adventurous! Since November 2018, it has been decided that this gentleman has to leave the country. If Herbert Kickl were still Minister of the Interior in November 2018, he would probably have taken the home trip no later than December, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: There it was!]] Now you've done it in such a way that he probably never leaves this country again. We also create a pull factor, we generate incentives through this law that more and more come here and say: Well, I'm illegally moving into Austria, and I'm teaching here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Mr Schellhorn, who is now so excited, wants to go further – Mr Anschober too. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Because it's not true!]] You want the model two plus three, or three plus two. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Three plus two!]] – Three plus two, yes; that remains the same under the rule. They want him to stay here for two years and then go home as a specialist worker. Well, I'll tell you what happens. The economy and also you and the greens will go back and say: Now he's really well-trained, a company, a highly qualified professional. Now it would be a crazy thing for us to push him off. [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - Yes, exactly! Now the potential and future coalition partner of the ÖVP shows his true face. This is the middle-right course that Sebastian Kurz and his turquoise-patched troupe promised voters. I'm excited how this will work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want this – also with the red and white red card – this is really a permanent right to stay. The right of residence is confirmed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] By the way, this also applies to the whole family, and we will never again get rid of those people who have arrived illegally, who have also made knowingly or unwittingly false statements to the state of Austria. It's a dangerous story. As I said, I particularly wish the Austrian People's Party, that it should come to its senses, that it should come back to reason and that it should remember what it promised voters in Austria at the election. With this left-green course, which you organize together here, it won't work. We want to maintain the rule of law in this country, we want independent judges to decide on the basis of the applicable laws and not teachers, economic interests or any NGOs or integration associations. Dear ÖVP, come on. Why don't you go to reason? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8005	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is Mr Karl Mahrer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8029	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I may begin with a brief replica on my predecessor's contribution. I am right for colleagues Amesbauer, we have a problem: that sometimes we do not find the courage to make clear decisions. And with all due respect, Mr Peshorn, I cannot understand why, after two legal findings, first and second, after the highest court decisions, the case of this man from Langenlois is now in fact subjected to an official examination. I do not think the Austrians can understand that in three or four instances there are legal findings, but then there is no legal clarity. Allow me to say that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Worm: Now I don’t know myself anymore!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The ÖVP, how it lives and lives!]] Now on a very important point, namely the necessary separation in our discussion: We have two issues, asylum and immigration in our discussion. Immigration is the way of people who want to come to Austria, organized, regulated, in the interests of those concerned, but also in the interests of Austria. In contrast – and this is very often mixed – the subject we are talking about today is the subject: Asylum. Asylum means escape, emergency, protection, capture. Asylum means a procedure, and at the end of this procedure there is an awareness. If the realization is that this man, this woman deserves protection, has asylum law in Austria, then access to the labour market begins only. Everything else leads us astray. We need to keep this straight path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There must be no access to the labour market before a positive decision, ladies and gentlemen, in an open procedure. [[Abg. Kickl: This is a supreme decision of hypocrisy, what is going on there!]] That is why it is of course important that we have short asylum procedures. A lot has happened lately. Asylum procedures at first instance are completed within a few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen – Mr Amesbauer has not mentioned this – but we are facing a challenge. Between 2012 and 2018, a decree of the then Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, which enabled asylum seekers to learn, contrary to the separation of the concepts of asylum and immigration during the open asylum process. We have these people as asylum seekers – forgive me! – Even with a rule of law, invited to teach. As a People's Party, we now wanted to find a solution that creates clarity: for the currently 767 asylum seekers, who are currently in education because of our invitation, and for the economy that deserves legal certainty. They all have a right to rely on politics. With the planned legal adjustment, which has been accompanied by the experts of the Ministry of the Interior – Mr. Federal Minister, thank you for this! - we create clarity and the possibility that the asylum seekers currently in a teaching relationship and who are not punishable can continue this teaching even in the case of a legally negative asylum decision until completion of the course examination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] It is, however, and this is also important not to have a new residence permit. [[Call the FPÖ:Well, sure...!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Sure, the san jo...!]] Rather, it is only about inhibiting the time limit for voluntary leave for the purpose of completing an initial teaching. One thing is undisputed – and we want to implement the rule of law really and in all areas, therefore also my introduction – we want the people who have a legally negative knowledge to leave the country after the end of the teaching. The training brings know-how, the know-how gives people the opportunity to contribute to the construction in their country. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, when I sort vegetables at Save...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing I can say: People who have voluntarily left Austria have the opportunity to return to Austria and move to the labour market. Now we are immigrating in the sense of immigration – organized, regulated and tailored to the needs of the person concerned and the needs of Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: How does it look with the fortification...?]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, family estate!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with a voluntary leave, we have solved the problem so far that 767 people actually have a solution. In the last few weeks, we have had the principle proposal on 13 November. In November the House held a number of talks with the political groups and wanted to reach a broad majority of parliamentarians. With the amendment tabled by Mr Karl Mahrer, Mr Reinhold Einwallner, Mr Alma Zadić and Mr Krisper, whom I am allowed to bring in, I also ask him to distribute, we introduce several more clarifications to help create clarity. [[Abg. Kickl: Barbamahrer!]] As far as the legitimate interests of the economy are concerned, I would like to repeat once again, ladies and gentlemen: We do not need to discuss over 767 asylum seekers – of whom only 200 or 300 are likely to receive a legally negative decision – for the economy, but rather we should discuss about the economy and create the appropriate incentives on the labour market so that we can actually integrate the 30 000 asylum seekers who already have a positive asylum notice into the labour market and the apprenticeships market. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why do you know that now?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amesbauer, what is the difference for those 767 people? - We stand as the rule of law. [[Abg. Belakovich: You're putting him out of power right now!]] However, we also stand for the individual people, because precisely for these 767 people whom we have invited to teach, we need a solution, and I believe we have taken a pragmatic and a human solution. [[Abg. Kickl: Then read the decree of the dog torfer by...!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In contrast to Mr Amesbauer, I would like to thank all the political groups that have contributed to the reasonable and, from my point of view, very good solution, and I would like to ask for your overall approval of this amendment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[13:07]] The application has the following general wording. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8569	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and has been distributed. Mr Peter Wurm came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8596	Madam President. Minister! High house! Believers at home! Yes, and daily the marmot greets, to feel a hundredth times the same discussion. Before I explain, Mr Mahrer, I should like to ask the question: Did you invite these asylum seekers? I didn't invite her. If that was your personal invitation, then you should also solve this at your personal level, but please do not hang out with the Austrians. They were not invited, they came – this, Mr. Mahrer, to your information. Just a moment ago, on the explanation: The whole is based on the so-called Bartenstein decree 2011/2012, which Minister Hundstorfer has then implemented accordingly. That was a really not stupid idea at the time. It has been said that during the asylum process, people are supposed to do something meaningful, work, or do a teaching in a disability profession. That's what's developed. I can remember that there were also fifty discussions in the Committee, and I then, sometime with Minister Hundstorfer, held the discussion here in plenary – that was in 2016 – how many of the asylum seekers actually completed this teaching. I remember, Minister Hundstorfer told me back then, 2016 – and it was sensational –: There were three who completed the teaching. That was in 2016. That means that all of this was a certain margin theme and has no great interest. Then we had the crisis years 2015/2016 with the storm, and something happened that might have to be explained again. The asylum seekers we are talking about today – about 780 – have triggered the following. For the explanation: 80 percent of them come from Afghanistan, 60 percent make their teaching in gastronomy, 65 percent of them have started their teaching after the initial instance was negative, we have a female rate of 3 percent to clarify a few key data. That means: What happened? – Quite clearly: Several NGOs have said more or less to the asylum seekers, especially after the negative judgment in the first instance: Start a lesson, I'll find a teacher for you, and then you can't be postponed! – That is why we are talking about this problem today. One has to say that the rejection rate for Afghanistan is about 50 percent; that is, it is relatively easy to calculate that many of these Afghans, who are now in teaching, will receive a negative notice. – So far to the facts. It is about people who have received an illegal asylum notice. As everything has been examined, over several instances, the humanitarian aspect has also been examined, there is also a rule of law: No reason for asylum, please leave again, otherwise you will be postponed! – Together with the SPÖ, with Greens and NEOS, ÖVP is simply lifting this up. In fact, no one can explain that in a rule of law. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Do not rain on...!]] I would also like to say: The interesting thing was actually the Committee on Budgets last week, on Tuesday, in which suddenly there was a very different picture, and perhaps one should tell the Austrians about it. This is about the fact that this is not the end of the flag rod, because what do these four parties actually want? – Of course, these four parties want these people not to leave after the end of the teaching, not go to Afghanistan and pass on their learned knowledge in their home country. No, they say it quite honestly, they want them to stay there. Do you know how they want to do this? – There is now a sudden agreement between red and black to avoid the red-and-white red card so far that we no longer speak of skilled workers, speak of key workers, but the provisions concerning the red-and-white red card should apply to everyone, and thus in Austria we have an open labour market for all third-country nationals worldwide. I think that is very dramatic, and you should tell the employees in Austria. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Vogl.]] In other words, you want to introduce wage and social dumping on this route for all workers in Austria. – Well, good luck with the statement to your voters! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: What you say is false!]] As you know, the archive can be very dangerous. I would like to make a brief point from a report of Parliament's correspondence a year ago, on 29 May. November 2018, reading. At the time, there was a slightly different constellation in the Committee, and I may briefly quote Mr Gust Wöginger, because he is there, “Wurm and Wöginger” – then still in common together – “in addition, it was again expressly rejected to grant a temporary right of residence in Austria, following a negative asylum notice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] You don’t have to mix asylum and migration, do you want to know?” – These are your words, Gust, a year ago, I just want to remind you! [[Call at the FPÖ:You hear!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Since it is exciting for social democracy too, let me briefly mention something else. Mr Stöger – I think he's not in the house now – is quoted in the same report as follows: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] “The changed point system – namely the red-and-white red card – “will enable unqualified workers from third countries to receive a red-and-white red card under the title Key Labour Force”. [[Abg. Kickl: Here, look!]] This means that Stöger door and gate are open. “This might also mean ‘Elephant Schnitzer’ – some of them can remember this title – ‘to be brought to Austria under the title Key Force,’ says Stöger.” – I can only quote it, it’s all officially present. [[Cheerfulness of Members Amesbauer and Kickl]] As I said, the dramatism of the whole development is my opinion that we completely eliminate the rule of law. In future, we will open up access to the free labour market in Austria for people from third countries, and I think this is very dramatic for Austria, for the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8719	Next come Mr Josef Muchichzu. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8749	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I'd like to start differently. I would like to start by thanking all the more than 1,000 companies in Austria who were willing to put young asylum seekers into employment, who were willing to make young asylum seekers from service providers into contributors. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, nice!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: The tears come to me!]] Thank you very much! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] I also thank those who volunteered for many hours to care for these young people and to accompany them positively in a teaching. [[New condolences with SPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of NEOS.]] Now I want to bring the facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Col. Amesbauer comes forward here and says that these people in teaching take away the apprenticeships for the Austrian youth. - That's a fool! You should finally - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8806	Mr Muchich, I would also ask you to be moderate in terms of expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8822	Such a nonsense that these 767 young asylum seekers from Austria took away the apprenticeship! [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Continue!]] Do you understand and finally understand that the occupations are flawless! We have a list of 45 professions, and the AMS may only communicate if it fails to bring an Austrian youth to a teaching place. Please finally get this and don't spread any untruths here! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] For Mr Worm's speech: Mr Wurm has spoken here and has said that the companies that teach young asylum seekers are doing wage and social dumping. [[Abg. Worm: Social democracy supports wage and social dumping!]] – What kind of nonsense is that? [[Abg. Worm: betrayal of the workers!]] We should operate with correct figures, namely that it is still 767 and has become less and less the longer Parliament has waited. It's good that we take a next step here. I am also proud to be one of the 80,000 supporters of the Training Initiative rather than the deportation of Rudi Anschhober. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is... lawbreak!]] I would also like to add that, although it is an important step today to decide by a large majority the deportation stop for apprentices here in this Parliament – just without the approval of the FPÖ, which has long been in a foundation of inhumanity and inhumanity – I am still too far away. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, you want everything anyway!]] I would therefore do what many Austrians say by a large majority: Why should we encourage new young professionals who are not yet able to speak the language to come to Austria instead of keeping those young professionals who have been trained at Austrian companies in Austria? [[Abg. Belakovich: Who wants this?]] [[Abg. Worm: Don't we want to!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You will!]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's all crazy!]] If I look towards ÖVP now, I would like to appeal: 50 percent of all apprentices are now employed in the gastronomy sector. [[Abg. Belakovich: 80 percent!]] It must be a big concern to you if the economy is important to you and if these more than 1,000 companies are important to you, who have supported these apprentices who have invested in training, that they can then remain in this shortage profession in Austria as experts! If it isn't important to you, then you won't agree to the request anyway, but that's a logical request, a chance to create a practical solution for all those who are already completing a teaching in our system, for those we need as future professionals. [[Abg. Belakovich: Very logical!]] I invite you all to accept our motion for a resolution – in the interests of the companies in Austria who have given these young people a chance, but also in the interests of the young people who are willing to work here and to pay contributions accordingly. Thank you. [[Congratulation and bravado with the SPÖ as well as congratulation with the greens.]] [[13:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9092	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9119	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the screens! In view of the requests here, I really wonder whether we are elected representatives of the Austrian people here in the National Council or paid opponents of our own home future. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] With the creation of an opportunity for asylum seekers and asylum seekers to complete their apprenticeship despite a negative asylum decision, an absolutely wrong path is being taken, which is certainly not within the meaning of our Austrian population. In our country, there are currently around 9 000 teachers looking for teaching places in Austria. In addition, we have around 30 000 asylum seekers who report to the labour market service. are and receive the minimum guarantee monthly. They're all waiting for a job or an apprenticeship. In my view, anyone who receives a negative asylum notice should immediately leave the country of Austria, regardless of whether he has begun a teaching or not. I think it is terrifying how it is being tried to circumvent asylum law. This planned relief of asylum law shows the left course of the future turquoise-green asylum law government. In the final effect, the creation of a residence permit in the case of an initial teaching constitutes the first step towards a permanent residence permit. In the future, asylum seekers will be allowed to stay in Austria in the event of an initial teaching, regardless of whether there is an asylum ground or not. The SPÖ can even imagine a virtually seamless transition from teaching to red and white red card. In my view, the requests are certainly not in the sense of our Austrian people and therefore are not rejected. Instead, we should try to integrate the 30 000 asylum seekers who have been reported to the labour market service into the labour market. Only in this way can we relieve the social budget and finally reclaim more money for our own families in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9168	Next speaker: Mrs Alma Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9189	Madam President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I am pleased that we have finally managed to make a common request that allows those people who have begun a teaching here to finish it. I'm glad we managed together to give these young people a chance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One would like to say that it would be natural for people who have been best integrated here to be allowed to stay here, who are learning to work and pay taxes. Unfortunately, that is not the case. These apprentices we are talking about today have a manko in the eyes of our last government, because they have come to Austria as asylum seekers. [[Abg. Worm: fact, no manko!]] After an extended period of procedure, they now also have a negative asylum notice. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Belarusian: False!]] Therefore, those persons who have also found a job during this extended period of procedure face the great problem that they are threatened with deportation in countries where they can at best restart, but in the worst case, such as in the case of Afghanistan, their lives are threatened. To change this, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we need a political will. We have managed together – in most cases – to take a step towards finding a common human and economically reasonable solution in this matter for 800 asylum seekers in teaching. We all know that until September 2018 there was the possibility that young asylum seekers up to the age of 25 could begin a teaching in a profession where apprenticeships were lacking. Only then, if no domestic or equivalent substitute power could be imparted in this profession, could these young people begin this teaching. That's a few of them, too. Many companies, ladies and gentlemen, have made use of this solution, of this offer. They found, of course, out of the circle of asylum seekers apprentices for places that would otherwise have remained unoccupied. Ladies and gentlemen! These apprentices do excellent work. They are super integrated, they support our businesses. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They have become an important support of so many innkeepers, so many hotels and so many internships. Why don't you ask these teachers how satisfied they are with these people? Why don't you ask how much these people use for our Austrian businesses every day? Yes, we Greens would, of course, wish us that these people who have started a teaching here may also complete this teaching and have the opportunity to continue working in their business. Of course we would support this, but we understand that we have now found another, majority solution. Of course, we join this majority solution and we are pleased that it has succeeded together. Ladies and gentlemen! It is an inconceivable achievement that these apprentices have already done to these people. [[Abg. Worm: Heroes of work!]] Only a few know what it means in a foreign country, whose language one does not speak, without friends, without a family, and yet to make it here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] Most have done great things, and so today we are setting a common sign to reward this achievement, because this performance must be worthwhile. Let us at least end these people's teaching! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9282	Next speaker: Mrs Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9304	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators here and in front of the screens! I would like to make it clear to you once again that the FPÖ has thrown around here with not very pacifist nebula grenades. [[Abg. Amesbauer: I'm not a pacifist!]] It is quite clear that there are only 800 people who, since a decree made this possible, were able to start an apprenticeship in a disability profession, because no Austrian, no Austrian, a job, was taken away from a apprenticeship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] That is to say, Mr Amesbauer, there will be no pull factor due to this change in the law. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's not even the NEOS!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... sleep!]] Our repeatedly submitted and repeatedly rejected request regarding three plus two has always referred to this group of persons. With this proposal, as has already been said, we are fighting for three years of training and two years' stay in operation, and of course we are also asking whether then a red and white red card makes sense. This is the only human and economically reasonable solution for those concerned and for entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For this the ÖVP was not to have. What the ÖVP was finally ready for at last was better than nothing. That is why we also participate, are also involved – but not anymore – because after today's decision, asylum seekers can complete their teaching. If, from the date of entry into force of this amendment, the asylum procedures end legally negatively, the procedure has not been ended legally before. So it is a lottery of fate, which the Federal Administrative Judge first bubbled out to decide it – it is a complete lottery that becomes a law there. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We think this is absurd in economic policy and, unlike you, Mr Mahrer, it is inhuman. I am not surprised by the ÖVP, but I am surprised that the Greens are now celebrating this as a great success. We have tried to take away the legal negatives on one motion three without two. That was unsuccessful. This is a pity, as our request would have generally brought greater legal certainty, because the ÖVP's request is very complex. I thank the Minister of the Interior for his time and also for the expertise from his house, but I dare to say that we would have made NEOS such a request, if it had been said by the Ministry of the Interior – I think, rightly – that is not feasible. Our request would also have legalized the stay of those concerned. What we have now is almost tolerated illegals. So what's going on? – In my opinion, this is an unworthy theatre that will bring with it many more dramatic acts. What will happen in the future? – People who were in teaching in a disability profession are still being postponed because they had the wrong to become legally negative. After completion of the teaching, the inhuman drama continues, because then trained people are relocated in the disability profession. It's completely free of sense. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is a mockery for those concerned, the people who care for them and support them, and for the entrepreneurs who train people who are pushed off their noses the day after the exam. That's inconceivable. There is another solution from us, which lies in the Committee, the motion for a resolution three plus two. I continue to expect the ÖVP's approval, and we will fight for it, and I hope the Greens will support it. Generally speaking, on the tag Coalition Negotiations: There is a need for a comprehensive immigration strategy, which will also implement the EU Directive, which would actually provide for asylum seekers to work from the ninth month onwards from the date of application. And there is another construction site, the Federal Agency for Support and Support Services, in short BBU. In fact, the system created by the Turkish-Blue Federal Government with the BBU-Electrification Act is a close relationship between those who provide legal advice and those who have the power to decide in the asylum procedure. There is a need for strict separation in order to guarantee independent legal assistance again. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9486	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Wolfgang Peschorn has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9510	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Austrians! I should like to speak on the occasion of the debate on this novel to the Foreign Police Act. First of all, very current: I cannot see a conflict between the BBU and the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, both of which are independent institutions. The one, the BFA, is an organ of the Republic of Austria, and the BBU is a company of the Republic of Austria, but independent. One, namely the BFA, is the decision on whether or not asylum is granted and the other, provided that the legal regulations remain in force, is the responsibility of the care, the basic provision and also the question of legal advice. I still believe that the question of who provides legal advice is to be separated from how legal advice is provided, and I am right to say that it will be very essential to pay attention here to the quality of legal advice. On the occasion of this debate, allow me a few basic comments: The European Convention on Human Rights celebrated its 65th anniversary last year. Some 65 years ago, the States of Europe, the Council of Europe, in the face of the horrors of the Second World War and a totalitarian regime, agreed that it would not be allowed to comply with fundamental and freedom rights which our ancestors have far earlier – in 1848 and in succession – for us, and have agreed on the European Convention on Human Rights. Both of us, namely our fundamental and freedom rights and the ECHR, are a treasure that we are preserving and that we should deal with very carefully. Fundamental and freedom rights and human rights are, as a whole, something like the steel structure of a rule of law. This steel structure should not be bent or brought to ruin. Only then, from my point of view, will we be able to live in a rule of law that gives us the freedom we need as a Western country. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] The European Court of Human Rights is one who has applied these human rights since their existence. It is sometimes laborious for someone who, above all, has to comply with laws, when he receives decisions from courts that are independent and who only feel obliged to help enforce these foundations, but from my point of view, it is very valuable to make these decisions, because they always give a critical hearing, which is to be heard and which, if they comply with them, only improves the legal system. It is no coincidence, therefore, that this Austrian government has also proposed to the European Human Rights Court for the Nobel Peace Prize, as in our view it makes an important contribution to ensuring legal principles not only in the European Community, but also in Austria, but also outside, with all the members of the Council of Europe. Asylum and migration are very challenging political issues. I was able to experience this in my now almost six months as Minister of the Interior. I would therefore request that we not only discuss these issues together, but also resolve them – and this is indeed the time when asylum and migration are a question that will concern us throughout Europe, but especially in Austria, over the next decades – to do so on a highly objective and professional basis. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] If we've heard of a current case today, let go of it. You're going to take this one for a second, too. § 13 and § 50 Foreign Police Act clearly state that human rights must be respected by all authorities at every stage of a process. There is – and I come back to my comparison with the steel scaffold – no if and but. The rule of law does not prove successful in the event of fair weather, the rule of law proves to be successful when a storm rises. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pfurtscheller, Mr Yílmaz and Mr Zadić.]] That's exactly what my employees did. Anyone who once held a political role knows that he has to do with requests, wishes and so-called interventions every day. A Minister of Interior with 37,000 employees is not true of this practice, but it is also my duty as Minister of the Interior to listen to people's requests and wishes and to carry them out on a legal basis. Nothing of what has happened in the last days was illegal, nothing of that was arbitrary. All that has happened in this context has been done on a legal basis. Anything else would contradict my official understanding. I should therefore like to make a brief statement to you of the figures for deportations or for the forced extraditions: In 2017, there were 3,100 people, in 2018 4,700 and in 2019, it will probably be 5,400 people. In recent years, there have been so-called new Char- In other words, countries in which people are deported – Ghana, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Guinea, Mongolia and Uzbekistan. There were six charter deportations to Afghanistan in 2018, and nine in 2019. Afghanistan is one of the main destinations of those concerned. This is not because, for example, there is a case of arbitrariness, but – it is a simple mathematical example – because Austria was mainly affected by people from Afghanistan in 2015 and is still today. We're a target destination – that's a pure information. There were 307 foreign shipments to Afghanistan in 2018, of which 187 were deportations. In the first half of 2019, it was 180 and in the second half of the year – and I am responsible for this second half – it is now 252, that is, more. It is not unusual that it is also always short-term that people who are booked on this charter are excluded from this flight, from the deportation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only because we want to comply with the laws until the last moment, and these laws are crucially influenced by human rights. It is not only the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, which has the task of following a decision at first instance when the highest courts have judged – often after months and years – to carry out these deportations, but of course these are also my police officers in the deportation itself. As Minister of the Interior, I have not only to ensure an orderly asylum and migration, but also, of course, to take care of and ensure the security of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The current legislative proposal is an initiative proposal and, as mentioned by my previous speakers, the result of a process that has probably been rather extraordinary in recent years, which I therefore feel is particularly interesting, because it explains that there can be a cooperation between the legislative and the executive, in which the legislative – you, ladies and gentlemen – can rely on the knowledge, the know-how and the abilities of my officials. It makes me proud that my house was able to make a technical contribution here – technical contribution because it was your will decision. The way to this goal, to this law you are likely to decide today, was first of all marked by the fact that we have discussed content and created a score that has produced a majority that bears this score. Everything else, the decision-making itself, is yours. And I can only say: The complexity of the draft lies not with my employees, but with the result of the formation of the will, the agreement of the majority; it has no other reason. Let me give you the hint: Of course, this regulation is now very open – and that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers – that it is time to clarify what asylum and what migration in Austria is supposed to be legal. I think all the political groups will find themselves: We should have clear rules that allow people who want to come to Austria to know clearly how to stop in Austria. I would therefore ask you, in the course of this legislative period, to ensure clarity and to regulate labour migration, to make it clear whether and how far it should be allowed, and then to provide for this in the local and residence laws. The current regulation, in order to make it clear once again, is not one that provides a reason for asylum, it is not one that extends or limits the asylum law, it is a system which is therefore not properly implemented in the Asylum Act. It is a simple inhibition or a postponement for the deportation, even for the forced deportation. Our law and our laws are not shared. That is why people who have a deportation notice – or a notice with which they are obliged to go outside of the country – should also pay attention to it. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[13:43]] [[13:43:17]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9628	I still have a desire to announce: I announce that the request (1/US) supported by at least 46 Members on the establishment of an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on ‘probable buyability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government (Ibiza Investigation Committee).’ This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure are now also distributed to all Members. I also have five Members, according to § 33 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. This debate will take place after the agenda has been completed. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. As the next speaker in the debate, I shall give the floor to Mr Karlheinz Kopf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9668	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! The Austrian economy is currently lacking significantly over 100 000 skilled workers, and yet as an entrepreneur and as a representative of entrepreneurship, I am saying that the Asylum Act is not the right instrument to meet this need, because I am a Member of Parliament and also a citizen of the rule of law – the Federal Minister has already stated that this includes, of course, the Convention on Human Rights and the case law – and that asylum law has a very special obligation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] This is a special treasure of protection for people from persecution in their home countries. We should not burden this law and this right for these people, this particularly protective right, with issues of labour migration, because we are not doing any good for the issue of asylum law and asylum. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, I am saying that at the time it was quite right in the human sense to allow young asylum seekers access to education. However, one must also say something self-critical about the fact that, at the time of the adoption, one did not think that there could be such situations in asylum law, or that an asylum procedure could also be negative. At the time, the question of what would happen was not taken into account and not resolved. The consequence of a negative asylum notice is a return request. And I say again: Nevertheless, it is human and, of course, nationally correct, apprentices who have been granted access to a teaching through this special permit, i.e. asylfing apprentices, who, however, have a negative asylum notice, now with this regulation, which we now decide to grant the opportunity to complete the teaching. This is a profoundly humanistic and humane solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to thank the representatives of social democracy, the Greens, the NEOS for being able to do so, and also you personally, Mr Federal Minister, and your employees, especially my colleague Karl Mahrer, from my own group, for having been able to make this four-party request. All that has now been said by the liberals is of course – I do not use the word nonsense now – not right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There is no further access, Mr Amesbauer, because the decree has been out of effect since September last year. They were just infirmaries. It is therefore not right to claim that these people take away a job or a teaching place from a job in a job-seeking country. [[Abg. Amesbauer: 9 000!]] Mr Muchich has also explained how the alleged wage dumping is. [[Abg. Belakovich: Well then!]] There are collective contracts for all teaching professions, so what is this supposed to do? All of this is not right and only serves the fear and panic. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS, as well as of representatives of SPÖ.]] This also applies to the alleged function of a pull factor. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Timely limited!]] What is it to be in the case of a decree which has been suspended since September last year? We, ladies and gentlemen, have to solve the question of the shortage of labour and skilled workers, but we have to solve them with a different concept – and we need a lot of things to do that. More effort is needed in the qualification of people via the AMS in conjunction with the businesses. We have 30 000 asylum seekers in Austria, 10 000 of them under 25 years of age. We must make a special effort to do this, but of course not only for this, but for everyone who has no job, and qualification is the key to it. We need more regional mobility on the labour market, and we also need qualified immigration – not only but also, to a proper extent. I also say: The Red and White Red Card we introduced in 2011 is basically useful and thought to be a flexible instrument – it fulfils its function only conditionally. That means she needs to be more flexible, I'd even say: Let us talk about whether we should not create our own law for the factor of qualified immigration! That's what it's all about: It is about the age of language diplomas, the recognition of non-formal competences, the reduction of minimum payment requirements, Mr Schellhorn, but it is also about increased digital processing – the procedures are too long – and, and so. In addition, administrative practice is too restrictive, I even claim: in some cases not even in accordance with legislation restrictive. That means: I believe that we should turn to this issue as a whole, to strengthen our own rails in the interests of protecting asylum law, or to improve this rail. I believe that this would be in the sense of both the asylum regime and, of course, the Austrian farms that urgently need labour, but in a different way than through asylum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9765	The next item is Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9786	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yes, with this change of law, we are able to complete at least some of a subject that has been very, very long, very busy for us. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't finish!]] It does not only concern us since the motion for a resolution adopted in September, but it has been a long time before, because there have always been cases where it has been incomprehensible why young people who have been trained in Austria have been postponed before this training has been completed. We are creating a very clear regulation for a small group of people with this change in law. It concerns – and we have heard it more often now – about 760, 780 people who are still in a teaching profession and who - I say it again - can complete their training through this decision. That is, I think, the positive that you have to mention today. Dear Karlheinz head, I also speak as an entrepreneur and as someone who has trained and trained apprentices: Of course, it makes sense for me to train someone, if I know what he can do, and if I need him in the company – it's a shortage job that people are needed – that I can continue to employ him. And it makes no sense to move it off and perhaps about the detour that he has to apply for the red and white red card abroad to get back to the country or – even worse – to bring someone else from a third country to the country where I do not know what the quality of the education was, in which I do not know what the German knowledge is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am very glad that this compromise has succeeded. It was not easy because the first request of the ÖVP did not include much of what we now have inside. A very important part is that we now take into account, of course, those people who are currently receiving a negative notice and the deportation process is also inhibited accordingly. I believe that this was a very essential point, so that we are not constantly confronted with cases where deportations occur again before the teaching is completed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I say that it is a first step, then I really advocate that we support our motion for a resolution, because it would have to implement the second step that it needs to be taken: that those people who take a positive teaching course with us who have proven themselves and integrated themselves well would also have the opportunity to apply for a red-and-white red card here in the country and do not have to go abroad before. So, of course, it makes sense to think about a reform and a rethinking of the red and white red card, so that it also meets the needs of the work mark. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The subject is a little more diverse, what we see on the basis of the cases we have faced in recent days. We must also take care of the people who are in a school education, who are training in a care profession where we also have a lack, and there must not be such a procedure as in the past days: that you pick up someone at home, lock in for a day, and then give him the opportunity to stay there again. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, he'd have heard right away!]] I believe that policy is responsible for finding a solution for these people, so that there is security, and that is also a lack of scope for us to look closely at. That is why I believe that we must stick to this issue and that we cannot see it completely isolated from what we have now solved. But I'm glad we did some. I would also like to thank the political groups involved in this compromise for this first step. I would like to thank the Ministry, the Minister for the rapid implementation of our amendments, which in all, have actually led to a very complex amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say once again: Let us see that we are also thinking about this first step and, finally, think that there is a security for the people who have been well integrated here in Austria and have made a training! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9857	The next item is Mrs Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9879	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen as well as guests! Yes, that was a tough ringing and this is a first good step, since we are all in agreement except the FPÖ, and yes, we too find greens, there is a need for further and in the best case common steps. [[Abg. Worm: In the wrong direction!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] The recent case in Langenlois, mentioned today, where the foreign police searched the private areas of monastery sisters for a young, committed and integrated student in a nursing school, awakened many and also awakened inconsistencies in the population, why young, committed people should actually leave the country. [[Abg. Worm: Development aid!]] This is understood by fewer and fewer people, and if something like that seems irrational, then we must ask ourselves from politics: Where are the gaps? What can we do about it? [[Abg. Worm: Afghanistan needs it urgently!]] We know that this is just about the so-called infirmaries, and yes, I'll give you the right to: It is true that it is not the only solution to cover exactly that through asylum procedures. Nevertheless, as in this amendment, we need to work together to ensure that it is not also a possibility for apprentices, regarding pupils, whom we urgently need in Austria, to create legal certainty and to look more closely at what we can do so that these people in Austria can complete a teaching, a school. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because of this, we know that civil society has raised its voice and vehemently committed itself to this student in Langenlois, that in Austria there is something that is doing here ever stronger, even on the part of the population, which calls for us to make a policy of order, but also a policy of humanity. We also know that the last survey in Austria has shown that 67 percent of people say that apprentices in Austria should complete a teaching. We should not ignore this from politics, but rather listen to it more precisely, why it seems so irrational when we force people to leave the country, which can make a good training here. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] With this decision, a policy of social exclusion and economic irration – which we have heard several times today – is being rejected, and that is a good thing. Apart from the fact that we need not only caregivers, we also know that the inactivity of young people cannot be our goal. A teaching – we know that too – is the best integration measure, and if we call for integration, then we must stop deliberately preventing it. In this sense, it is still very important to me to mention that we were confronted yesterday with a terrifying number: 22 percent of the Austrian population do not want democracy, do not want parliament; at the same time, the rights of parliamentarians are restricted in Hungary. [[Abg. Amesbauer: If you... decide...!]] I think it is very, very important for the Austrian Parliament that this tough ringing has led us to find a compromise – perhaps not all of which are entirely satisfied – because it is precisely this compromise that fights against political indifference, and we prove with this compromise that, even if we have different attitudes, this Parliament in Austria serves to strengthen exactly this confidence in politics. [[Abg. Amesbauer: We are not satisfied at all!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer:... but not with such laws!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... 70 percent...!]] That is why it is very important for us Greens not only to stress this policy of the potential, but we would like to express our sincere thanks to everyone – starting with the four parties involved in the application – through NGOs and civil society to the committed individuals – who are committed to the fact that apprentices can complete their training, their teaching. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Who is civil society, who or what? Is that you?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] I hope for further discussions, for another ringing, so that the situation for these people will become even worse after training. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10054	Next item is the report by Mr Josef Schellhorn. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10079	Mr President. Dear Minister! It would actually have been easy. As you have said, we have also been addressing this for a long time, and I expressly thank you, Mr Minister, for this has never been the case before, and this must also be mentioned that, in cooperation with the individual political groups, a solution has been reached in your ministry. The will to find a solution was given to you, and it has become a compromise. In fact, it has become a compromise, and in the second part of my speech I would also like to address the complexity of this compromise. Mr Mahrer said that it was necessary to rely on politics – I will read it later. But let me say a little more to my previous speakers at the beginning: So the only thing that has been confirmed by the finally remaining FPOs – there will probably be a few more hosts or a few hoteliers – is that my previous speakers Worm and Amesbauer have confirmed this, is that they have no economic competence. [[Abg. Worm:... more from the NEOS!]] [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Amesbauer and Worm.]] The FPÖ actually has only one denominator competence, i.e.: How do we deal with spices or other things? How do we divide the state? In contrast to you, economic competence has proved to be a good example. He said that these are contributors who pay into the system. [[Abg. Amesbauer: The upper bean!]] [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] This is a very simple bill: If you do not let an asylum-seeker who is in teaching work, he is referring to the system in which he otherwise pays. That's not a difficult bill, is it? - No, that's really easy. Their competence is also another, that of xenophobia and nothing else. You're an alien to the end! [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Oh!]] That's all you're talking about. They believe that these 700 people will still be able to make small money. We have a lack of apprentices. [[Abg. Amesbauer:... you want more and want to solidify the... permanently!]] – I now call you a number – be quiet, think about it! –: In 2002, there were almost 40 000 apprentices, now there are almost 27 000. What's that all about? What do we have in at least three years? – A shortage of skilled workers, and if we push off those who are now willing to integrate, pay contributions, we have a problem à la longue. [[Intervocations by Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] These are the topics that concern me as a businessman and deal with the many hoteliers and those who train in disability professions. [[Deputies Belakovich and Worm:Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: So you're useless there?! Do not want to work in your company... working conditions?]] The apprentices are then postponed, there is no legal certainty. I agree with colleagues and, above all, with the Minister, I agree that we need to distinguish between them. But what has never been done in the past? – An independent immigration law, a migration strategy. Where does our society develop by 2030, 2040? – We will have a problem not only in the professions but also because of the demographic curve. We need an independent law, an independent strategy, even for qualified immigration. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On the last point, Mr Mahrer, I should like to mention this: With this amendment, I admit, we are going along with it, because we have called for something quite different, namely security – that will surprise you now –: three plus two. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's what we say all the time... doesn't go far enough!]] That's the competence. [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's five years!]] - Yeah, that's five years. [[Abg. Amesbauer: And after that?]] That's five years, you're right, nice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Three plus two, that's our request. We're going with it like no one else – tough-kneading, because it would have been quite different and simple. I am an entrepreneur – I am not a lawyer, but, of course, a tourist – now read to you what we have been looking at, and I ask above all the side of the ÖVP to look at it, and then to tell me how it goes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] I'm trying to read it slowly. [[Abg. Worm: We already understand!]] In the specific case, it looks like: An apprentice receives a negative decision from the Federal Administrative Court. Thus the doctrine is simply finished by law. The apprentice is not allowed to work anymore. If he does, then the teacher is guilty of illegal employment. - Oh, sure! The apprentice must therefore bring an appeal against the decision of the Federal Administrative Court to the highest courts and in addition apply for the postponement effect. - That's fact, that's normal. Now it is said to wait and tremble before a deportation, until the delaying effect is approved. - That's right, too. If the delaying effect is allowed, the apprentice and the teacher will have to re-open a teaching contract and register it at the apprentice's office, Mr. Kopf. This second teaching contract must be sent to the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum no later than three weeks from the recognition of the delaying effect, Minister. If this second teaching contract has arrived at the Federal Office in good time, the deportation stop will at last be effective and the employment permit initially granted for the first apprenticeship will be deemed not to be exhausted. The apprentice is now allowed to work again in the company until graduation. This is a Kafkaesque paragraph boy. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] Now take a businessman's hand and do it with him! That's really hard – hardest! – complicated. What do you want to do with it? Selling this as a great success is more than cynical. I think the interests of the economy, the interests of the entrepreneurs should also be the interests of the ÖVP – and not, on the one hand, to sell it populistly and then to hinder it on the other. [[Abg. Amesbauer: This is not about an asylum procedure! There's no such thing as that!]] Make it easier with us, with our amendment, this legislation! Make it easier with us and put three plus two on our system, then everything will be much easier!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10308	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10330	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to correct three things that have come from the FPÖ side and which could cause confusion among the listeners. The first point: Mr Amesberger has been very upset about the case of the asylum seekers in Langenlois, who stood before the deportation and whose deportation has once again been averted or delayed, who has received a new deadline. It's very important to me to hold on to one thing: This case has nothing to do with the law we are discussing right now, and nothing at all. The asylum seekers in Langenlois are going to a school – we are now deciding a solution for asylum seekers in teaching – and he has had a legal deportation since 2018, which means that he is not covered by this law, which we decide today. Why this case is reviewed again, the Minister has already explained. The next two points have come from Mr Worm, I too would like to correct them. Mr Wurm has assumed that the new law will remove any notifications. – That’s not true, it only results in a inhibition of the deadline. That's a huge difference. [[Abg. Worm: Where did I say this, Mrs. Colleague?]] It's very important to me that this is held. Mr Wurm has also assumed that in the future the red and white red card will be opened and watered down so to speak, so to speak, that unqualified people may come to work again. – I note that, of course, trained apprentices are no longer unqualified, but are among the qualified workers. [[Abg. Belakovich: But you may...!]] These are the three things that are very important to me, and, Mrs Belakovich, if you want to say something about it, come on. Get out again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: I'll do it anyway! I'll do it!]] I would like to add those three things that are very important to me personally as an ÖVPlerin: First of all, I would like to thank all the parties very much for this solution. Personally, I have always been very concerned about finding a practical way for the asylum seekers who are currently in a teaching relationship. We have succeeded in this, and we have no link between asylum law and labour migration. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] We have also been able to comply with what Sebastian promised just before the election, namely that we will find a pragmatic solution. [[Abg. Amesbauer: He didn't say that before the election!]] Secondly, I think it is extreme - - – No, he said it before! [[Abg. Amesbauer: He said that afterwards!]] Secondly, I would like to point out that it is very important for me to ensure that we also ensure for the future – and perhaps make it even better because of the falling numbers of asylum seekers – that asylum procedures are as short as possible. I think that was the reason for many problems that asylum procedures took incredibly long – without wanting to blame the officials, they were simply overburdened. The faster a procedure is handled, the less the pressure on the people seeking asylum, the less patient they have to be and the less insecurity they have to endure. There is no longer the need to discuss whether or not they should be able to work. The third point, which is also very important to me and which has not been mentioned by anyone today: We must finally, at last, finally find solutions at EU level so that escape is no longer necessary or is no longer necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need to find solutions and ensure that people are better helped either on the ground or that people on the spot or in a neighbouring country of their home country can make an application for asylum or resettlement and can only be brought to us if the asylum procedure is also completed. We would finally have a successful solution at EU level, with which everyone can live, and quite a lot of discussions we have held in recent years would be obsolete. The fourth point: As an electorate, I would like to join with Mr Kopf, who in Tyrol we have a blatant shortage of labour, which in some cases already has dramatic trains. We need labour, we need skilled workers. Today, our President of the Chamber of Economics in Tyrol has announced that 79 percent of companies in Tyrol complain about the shortage of labour or complain about the shortage of skilled workers. [[Abg. Amesbauer: There you have a bad country captain, well!]] I would like to stress once again all the proposals made by my colleague, Mr Kopf, concerning the in-work transfer of local or domestic job seekers and, of course, asylum seekers who are now allowed to work with us wherever they want: We especially need a larger quota for third-country nationals in tourism. We are not talking about 100, Mr Hörl, but about far more people we need. We have to talk about it, Mr. Amesberger, once in a while - – yes, she brings us, the local forces, they get a job with us all if they want to work! [[Abg. Amesbauer: Perhaps the tourism industry should become more attractive!]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Also for local workers!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Bauer!]] I come from that district of Austria where there is almost zero unemployment, we do not get any skilled workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Don't say now, they're not paid well et cetera! – Yes, the proposals can be submitted if you wish to speak again! [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, then you should...!]] Mr Amesberger, which is very important to me. [[Abg. Belakovich: Bauer!]] We should also talk in peace about allowing a certain move. You only need to look at the population pyramid in Austria: We're not going to vote for it anymore. [[Abg. Belakovich: I repeat: The ÖVP is for move!]] This is not only about tourism, it is also about care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] - No, that's not a revelation at all. I'm not talking about asylum seekers. I have explicitly not spoken of asylum seekers, but of qualified immigration. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to ask you to learn to listen and to reflect on Christmas a little about listening in a session too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10567	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10591	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now have an agreement – actually an emergency solution – of four parties regarding the approximately 800 young people who are currently training in Austria. That's good, too. We're glad. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know quite well that in one and a half months the first apprentices will complete their vocational training. These are skilled professionals, well integrated and with good German knowledge. What are we doing with them? [[Abg. Worm: Working in Afghanistan in the hotel!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: In the supermarket!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The first patients will also stand at our door and say: It cannot be that people who have been living and integrated in Austria for four or five years are being postponed, and in the same breath – like Collaborative Pfurtscheller – thousands of trained people are required! [[Abg. Amesbauer: Yes, that's crazy anyway! That's the ÖVP!]] Yeah, what do we do now when we deal with it objectively? People who already can and are trained in German are kept there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There are two proposals from the NEOS and the SPÖ – very interesting by the way – how to deal with these people after completing the teaching. Interestingly, there is nothing from the two parties that are currently holding coalition talks at all. How is it supposed to continue in March, April, when people are done? Do we hear anything but good Sunday speeches, especially from the Greens? Where is the proposal to deal with what discussions should be held? What do we do in May when the first ones are finished? – We push them off once, and then, according to the Chamber of Commerce, we are looking for new forces for care, new cooks and so on, which then need German knowledge and then need to be integrated into our system. [[Abg. Worm: There are already numbers -!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Guys, you can't deal with this! The Austrian population is not stupid, it needs solutions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] Most say: Why should a person who speaks German and has a training be postponed? – There is a proposal by two parties concerning these 800 people: [[Abg. Amesbauer: Because there is no reason for asylum!]] Let's decide for it! It doesn't make much sense, it doesn't help anyone. Where is the proposal concerning those who will be ready in a few months? [[Abg. Worm: They are supposed to help build the country in Afghanistan! Afghanistan needs it!]] – Look, there are also FPÖ mayors who support initiatives. They also want to stay, they are at the fire brigade, the sons play football, the mother is somewhere in the church choir, the father works good: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] We're gonna push them off? - No, I can't imagine that. By the way: I can only regard the speeches of the FPÖ delegates as environmental dissatisfactions, because otherwise there was nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10744	Mrs Mag.a Faika El-Nagashi is speaking on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10769	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Integration means opportunities and perspectives and integration needs opportunities and perspectives. What we need to look at is how we can create these opportunities, and we have to look at those who are affected, as individuals, as people, and not as a number and a dehumanized quantity and mass. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is about enabling opportunities in the field of learning of language skills, professional competence, access to work and training, social contacts, involvement in the various Austrian society. How do we manage? – The reality that we are facing is that far too many people are in asylum proceedings for too long, which take too long, without the possibility of joining in work, training, social participation. The reality is that people, young people, without prospects, are left to hang between their country of origin – in the case of Afghanistan a country in war, by UNHCR, IOM, EASO unisono and constantly confirmed, a country in which the humanitarian situation is increasingly worsening – between this country of origin, a country in war, and the country in which they live, which can become a home for them; left in a situation without prospects, without opportunities and without future. [[Abg. Worm: Please!]] [[Abg. Worm: What is your... for Afghanistan?]] The reality is that the tens of thousands of people in Austria, the committed individuals, the communities, the companies, the businesses, the parishioners, once again and again, what a performance integration really is, a mutual achievement and one that begins best from the first day. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, we need access to training, access to teaching, access to school within the meaning of the EU Directive. Of course, we need a modern and humanitarian right to stay. [[Abg. Kickl: It's best to get rid of the asylum system!]] And, of course, we need protection from deportations in war zones. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] All of this needs to be resolved in accordance with the law, legal certainty and sustainability. That is a question, not only amyl political, that is a question, not only integration policy, education policy, social policy, youth politics, that is really a question of human rights – a question of human rights and not just a human question. Yesterday was the International Day of Human Rights. It must not be that such a day becomes a day of lip confession. This is a day and this is a moment when it is about once again ensuring that there is a human rights framework to ensure these conditions on a human basis and on a sustainable basis. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This means, of course, that young people need training, training opportunities for young asylum seekers, instead of being left inactive for years. And this must be connected to a lead perspective such as the three-plus-two-model. This must be linked to the possibility of a sustainable change, for example to the red and white red card. [[Abg. Kickl: Then be honest! Then the asylum system will end immediately!]] That's what needs to be achieved. This will be done today, but in this direction it will have to go in the future. Any support of yours, cross-party, is very much appreciated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10869	Mr Klaus Köchl spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10894	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values listeners and listeners! “We have too little welcome culture” – this was stated on 23.11.2014 in the “Press”. Sebastian Kurz has launched a campaign. He said, “There is the theme that there are many immigrants in Austria who do not yet feel at home”, but who are not made easy.” – These are very crucial sentences for me. – He has the goal of showing that there are separate and different opinions that things have to be brought together, because we are a binding Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The whole thing then looked different when this young man with the FPÖ came to the top of the government and prevented everything. [[Abg. Kickl: We just made order!]] [[Abg. Easy: First speech!]] I am used to this from the Carinthian Landtag, which is not a problem for me. There's still the stuff, here's the kick. It doesn't matter. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: But you can behave!]] Willing and willing young people should feel comfortable here. I would like to explain this on the basis of an example, Mr Kickl, on the basis of an example. [[Abg. Kickl: Those who do not integrate, we then push off!]] We in the Glantal do not have very many asylum seekers and foreigners, but we have a few; the young man is an asylum seekers, in 2015, just came around this time. [[Abg. Kickl: Be glad!]] He was born in 1994, is 25 years old, has completed compulsory school in Austria, has been driven by us in the Glantal by train to Klagenfurt – many have still paid him the monthly ticket so that he can get out at all –, has done regular language courses, has worked with us at the Bauhof, has just come to the Glantal via Traiskirchen and feels comfortable. [[Abg. Kickl: Jö!]] What about this young man? - He must not take up any teaching. Mr. Kickl, I tell you he could have learned at the brewery in Hirt. That's what the law says, it's not gonna work. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't want to understand! You don't want to understand.]] - Well, I understand, you don't want to understand. That's the problem. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I think that a Rudi dog torfer - - – I wasn't in this National Council, but you should have followed a Rudi dog torfer, because he has precisely recognized it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't know what you're doing at all!]] He has precisely recognized this, the Rudi Hundstorfer, which is important, namely that we need young apprentices with us who are not present in the world of work in Austria. We need in the district of Schlosser, carpenters, we need all these people. And that's not because he can't work there and not learn. [[Abg. Kickl: Is this the only one there is?]] This is a completely wrong policy you want to make. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is right to take steps to ensure that businesses get their apprentices that infirmaries are shown that these people can work. I believe that this proposal today, ladies and gentlemen, is a small step in the right direction. I think it's going up. People in Austria are allowed to learn again.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11083	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11104	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It's the same thing to my previous speaker: So I think you have no idea at all what the Rudi Hundstorfer answered in the 2012/2013 request response. If you had read it through, you knew that he said: “The right to stay as a basis for further residence in Austria will end with a legal rejection of the asylum application.” – point. [[Abg. Worm: That was the Rudi!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The red Rudi!]] The Rudolf Hundstorfer answered this in a written answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So the intention you interpret in it for ideological reasons, the Rudolf Hundstorfer has not had in this written answer. So, but now to what we have on the table here, ladies and gentlemen: This is a draft law, without any legal basis. There is a legal notice that someone has to leave the country. They now simply decide: We don't run the bill! I don't know. What happens to the notice, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? If he gets removed then he will be archived, what are you doing with it? [[Abg. Lightenness: Once the folder of the FPÖ is not there and it goes down and over!]] And what happens when you let these people finish the teaching? What do we have next year or in two years? What will happen then? What happens to these people who have now completed the teaching – and then they are trained? – Mr Pfurtscheller has already said that they are well-trained. Yeah, what happens to them then? Then move it off? Or are we standing here again next year and then we are going to extend it again? [[Abg. Kickl: That's how it's going to be!]] What will be the next step? Is the family union coming? And then what will be the next step? Then the students come, we've already seen that in Langenlois. That's where we need the students. And then we still have the students next step. When and where will that stop? [[Abg. Amesbauer: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You've opened the Pandora canals today. You know that very well. Some of you have already felt like coming here. Mr Kopf has already said today that we need qualified immigration, but to a proper degree. To bravo, ÖVP, congratulations! The ÖVP is for qualified immigration, but please to a proper extent. [[Abg. Kickl: The qualified come to qualify them!]] Then Mr Pfurtscheller comes out and says that we need thousands of immigrants into the labour market. Yeah, I mean, I'm slowly wondering, What's going on in this republic, please? Where are our own young people, why don't we figure them out? –Of course, they do not or do not leave the country because they have such bad prospects. So something's going wrong, ladies and gentlemen. When I look at the numbers of the AMS, I see that we have far more job seekers than open teaching places. [[Call to the Greens: It hurts slowly!]] So it is not that there are no young people who would like to learn a teaching profession. Apparently, the conditions are bad. The second point is that many farms and the Chamber of Commerce are insisting on bringing a lot of immigration into this country. I can understand, that's an ideology, that's a purely ideological thing. [[towards SPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] There are other reasons with you, and now you have to ask which one. [[towards ÖVP]] I mean, isn't it the cheap workers you'd like to have? Do you know what you're doing with the law proposal today? – This is modern slavery, because every single person who continues a teaching now knows very well: [[Call the ÖVP: Stop!]] When I finish my teaching tomorrow – for whatever reason, I dispute with the teacher, I have no desire anymore – then I actually have to leave the country. In doing so, these apprentices are under the pressure of their teacher. This is modern slavery that you are creating here, and such a thing must be deeply rejected, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interesting is also: Two months ago we heard of 900 apprentices, now it's only 700. Where are the others 200? If they received a positive message, could they stop teaching because the notice is already positive? It is precisely this question that you have to ask yourself. So where are they, ladies and gentlemen? Something else, and you know it very well: 70 percent of those who are now in teaching have started teaching after receiving the first negative knowledge. This is nothing but the resurgence of asylum law, you know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and also you, Mr Minister. If you make yourself here today and say that's all the rule of law, I have to tell you something: You have already demonstrated your creative legal views a few times. You also answer questions only if you want, and not if you don't have one. There are already laws here, and that cannot be the rule of law. That's not it either, but that's simple and simple arbitrary. There are simply arbitrary laws being removed, put out of force, just to bring people into the country. That is, everyone who came to the country in 2015, wherever, as old as we know, has never been lied as much as they are in old age and origin, and asylum, can stay here now. That's the completely wrong signal, ladies and gentlemen, that's the wrong signal. We have to tell the people that they have no chance of coming here, and they have to leave the country if they have no right to asylum. That is exactly what we need to demonstrate to the people right now, at a time when we know that the refugee camps in the Balkans are full again, that thousands of refugees from Turkey are likely to be sent back to Europe again in the near future. They send a signal: Anyone who manages to set foot to Austria and shout here once for an asylum can also stay here – with a bit tricks and a bit of dirt, but the end is true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] Here you become a co-deactor, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and there you should be ashamed of. [[Abg. Krainer: “Michanger” is on the list!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11283	Mr Karl Nehammer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated visitors to the gallery and spectators in front of the televisions and computers! Let us make a few things clear here: The error occurred in 2012 with a false decree. We've corrected this mistake. Today, it is no longer possible for an asylum seekers to begin a teaching, and that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We now see the consequences of this discussion. We as the People's Party have said: It needs a pragmatic solution with house mind for those over 700 who are there to complete their teaching, but then they have to leave the country. [[Green call for tender]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: That's a change of mind, isn't it?]] The The decisive thing is: I remember the subject very well when it was discussed in 2012. Many representatives of civil society, the NGOs, have argued: Make a decree that asylum seekers can start a teaching so that, even if the asylum process is negative, they can make a constructive contribution to the development of the economy in their home country! [[Abg. Worm: That was the statement at the time!]] – This is exactly what will happen to these 700 who are now, if they are negative. But one thing is clear, Mr Federal Minister, and that is why I am looking for It is urgent: The case of Langenlois also shows that it must be done consistently. The cases we are discussing here have nothing to do with students. If there is a high court notice that there is a need to be postponed, then it must be postponed in order to do enough to comply with the law. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing a bear service to asylum when we speak here at the speaker's desk as we have done in part today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] Why? – One is for people who flee because they are threatened by religious or political persecution in their bodies and lives, for which asylum is granted. Already in this discussion today the following thing has happened again: It is about qualified apprentices, it is about people who are trying to integrate themselves here, it is about 700 and it is missing 100 000, we have heard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Call at the SPÖ: That was... counting!]] – We have 10,000 asylum seekers in Austria, 10,000 asylum seekers under the age of 25 who do not have a teaching profession. How could that be? Where's the failure? [[Abg. Lightenness: Because it is forbidden!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You brought them in!]] 10 000, not 700; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yılmaz]] Ten 000 asylum seekers under 25 years of age, 30 000 asylum seekers in total who do not have work! We must stop, these people must be put to work so that they can integrate into our society. These people need the economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] With a pragmatic solution for a false decree from 2012 – because it really started to mix asylum, integration and migration together – we manage to correct this mistake again. That is what we have done, the decree is no longer in force. But let us also end the permanent mixing of asylum and migration, because it does not do everyone well! [[Abg. Yildirim: Tell your former government partner!]] The asylum seekers are not doing well, who have been given the highest judicial decision to leave the country. Then there are people here in the House who make them permanently still hope that they may still be able to stay. [[Abg. Belakovich: The ÖVP also! What about the...?]] Others are getting on their way again because they believe that they can still stay there, even if the procedure is highly negative. - That's wrong. Let's separate asylum from migration! The pragmatic solution has shown it and we stand for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11463	Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl has now been reported to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11487	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So the performance that the ÖVP has shown here today, I have to say, puts every Barbapapa in the shadow, at the bends you have made there to somehow justify this change of mind that has come to your mind after a few months after the end of this coalition. So it's no longer annoyed; but it's also a certain characteristic of the ÖVP, which has come out here today – today this and tomorrow different. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You can talk about everything, but not about character! You don't need to talk to character!]] The contents are interchangeable, the positions are important to you, and this is also the reason why the Wöginger will spend his Christmas with the Green Sigi Maurer in the Inn district. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is exactly the same chameleon-like adaptability that you show in other questions. What you decide to do here is to take a stand for the rule of law, which is a step for the officials in the BFA and that is a step for the jurisdiction that has decided on it, so that at the end of the day there is a negative judgment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the Greens:Since when has a decision been taken in Parliament?]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Incredible!]] [[Call the Greens: Be alert!]] I don't know what these people are doing all the work for? What do they do for? I am now putting myself in the position of an official in the BFA, who has examined this – by the way, by the way, does not cost much –, I am putting myself in the position of a judge, who then speaks according to the judgments in the courts. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] What do they do when you go here and say it's worth nothing anyway, we're different now, we forget the whole thing again, we change our position?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller]] Then I'll tell you about the ÖVP of one: That's where it failed, we're saving the whole thing. Then you'll be honest, then you'll say, You know what, we're going here and we're giving up on this whole Tarn paint called asylum – because something else isn't for you anyway! [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] Then we'll talk about immigration that's really about you – for economic reasons and you for ideological reasons! [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] Under the rule, both are equally bad for this country. You don't know what you're doing to the Austrians. You do not know what you have in Kerbholz with regard to the coming generations, of which I would like them to be able to say to this country, it is their Austria and not that they themselves become strangers in their own country. They make one contribution after another. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then come with the integration: They are all so well integrated and therefore we must not push them off! – You are also ready to perform the reverse connection: We are then pushing off those who have a positive asylum notice because they are not integrated? – There are indeed many of them! There are many who have a legally positive asylum notice, but who are not at all integrated and who do not even think of taking just one step towards integration, but who feel quite comfortable in their community. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim]] Do we then push them off because they do not meet the integration criterion? – Then we would be so consistent and could talk about things again, because then, I think, we would have a balance sheet that brings something positive under the line for the Austrians. But you don't want to do that again, so you're not so consistent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know very well that these 700 or 800 will not stay 700 or 800. You can multiply this with two or three or four – depending on the size of the family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] This is clear: because, with these teaching relationships, you contribute to the fact that Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights – is the same thing as the consolidation – is true. Then you don't get this apprentice out of the country anymore, and at the same time we've come up with what we don't want, which is also the family estate of all these people. [[Call the Greens: Human rights!]] Then we don't talk about 800 anymore, then we're talking about 2 400, 3 200 or no matter how many that will be. This goes on your cap from the ÖVP. I didn't expect anything else from there, but regarding a party that stands down and says she's doing a middle-right course – and then she comes up with such thoughts? – you really have to say, that's adventurous. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Germans bite themselves in the butt because of this three-plus-two model, which you have forced and propagated, because they know exactly that then the fortification has occurred and that they do not get any more of them out of the country. We're going to be the same as with the gays – exactly the same model! – Yes, exactly the same model! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] First of all, we have said that we are now making this partnership so that we can secure the demands of the two life partners, if one is in the hospital and so on, something, and there is no guarantee that this is not a problem! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Now we have the mudstick!]] [[Abg. Ribo taps his forehead by hand.]] Then time moves into the country, and now we are already talking about adoption rights and the normal marriage, just because you have opened the door and set in motion what we always prophesied to you. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, and the Republic is still standing!]] That's how it's gonna be here, I'm prophesying to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] First of all, then you won't get her out, then the apprentices, then the students, then the students – that's exactly how it will be! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I am not yet talking about what is necessary – now I am with the Minister of the Interior – now we are only talking about those who are there and who have a legally negative knowledge. That doesn't matter because we're funny. We decide – no matter what the dishes decide, it doesn't matter! –, they're still staying there. That is what we have forgotten about the fact that asylum as a whole is protection on time. I would have liked to check once again whether those who are now in the country for three years have any reason to escape. Haven't the conditions changed so far in their country that we should also start thinking about repatriation and bringing these people back where they came from? Because asylum is protection on time and nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have already approved of the thought anyway. This is the next big problem. I also say to you, Minister of the Interior: Your role in this student, in this child of the miracle from Langenlois, which will not be postponed now, will still be examined. You're gonna give it up. A few NGOs make a theatre, a few newspapers report it – and the rule of law is already going into the knees. Good night, Austria, you can just say! For me, what you and the Federal President have done here is an act of mistreatment, and we are going to get to the bottom of things. The principle of legality applies to you and also to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany will probably still be able to recognise laws he may have signed himself. I mean, that won't be too much to demand! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only tell you one thing, Minister of the Interior: I, too, have received these calls from the office of President of the Council, some of which have received Cardinals. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... the Cardinal!]] In this country everyone frys his extra sausage. Everyone knows well why exactly this one is such a protective one and should not be postponed. To sum up, there's a lot to do – and the worst thing that comes together is that the rule of law has actually served. This is the typical Austrian solution that will explain you as the act of humanity. – This is a complete dispassion, because humanity does not interpret itself through emotional industry, but rather about a reasonable and rational state, and it articulates itself in the laws of a state that you also have to comply with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus, what you are doing here is a shame to the rule of law and honestly a crime to the coming generations you commit here. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] I give you something to consider – and write Get that into the main book! –: When we talk about asylum, we don't talk about mass flight movements – that's what the left have done! – when we talk about asylum, we talk about individual persecution, about individuals who are individually threatened and persecuted, then we talk about Julian Assange and then we talk about Edward Snowden. This is asylum. Everything else is fleeing the Geneva Convention. That's something else. This too has been maimed, and it will not be a good end to doing so. So be honest with the ÖVP: Tell me what you want! Just sit here and say: If we do not stop for a long time with the claim to maintain an asylum system here, so to speak!, for one thing is clear – that is what I am going to tell you, Mr Nehammer, then I am looking at you, even all the officials who may be serving under your command in the Ministry of the Interior – then: [[Abg. Nehammer: But we can stay with you!]] An asylum system without a consistent return policy and without consistent returns has not deserved this name. Then you can keep it right, that's the cheaper option. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sobotka.]] Capitulate and hang the white flag at the state border instead of the red and white flag! That corresponds to your mentality.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11778	The next speaker is Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11803	Mr. Klubobmann Kickl, I would never have thought that you, as your minister, are so sad that You just sit down and cry towards ÖVP: Why don't you take us?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] You really saw that from the body language – but good. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nehammer! They turn to us and say that there are tens of thousands with a positive asylum notice, i.e. asylum seekers who are unable to get German – no, who have no employment. [[Abg. Nohammer: asylum seekers!]] [[Abg. Nehammer: No employment!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Then why did you abolish the year of integration? [[Call to the ÖVP: What do we have?]] That was integration from day one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oh, that's it....!]] Minister Stäger and State Secretary Muna Duzdar have really worked through what is needed to enable these people to be integrated into the labour market. You can look at me quietly, I'm not doing anything to you. [[towards Abg. Nehammer]] [[Abg. Nehammer: 300,000 unemployed and 100,000 of them under 25!]] You have abolished integration measures, you have shortened the resources, and then turn around and say: They're unemployed!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11938	Mr Michel Reimon came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, as you know, we have set up a candidate for the third President of the National Council. What is not going on is that you, as a party chairman, sit up there as National Council President and your clubman accuses the President of the Federal Republic of Germany of the abuse of his office. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Why not? Why?]] I can't! That you do not intervene is totally unacceptable. I can't do that. What Mr Klubobmann Kickl says is unacceptable anyway, but what is expected of an extreme right? What to expect from a right-wing extreme party on the stage? – That’s exactly what racism shudders! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Look, the only group of people who really have to be afraid of having a higher rate of crime than the Afghans, these are the liberals when you look around. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12007	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Proposal from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 12 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This too is largely accepted. [[3/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Stephanie Krisper, colleagues, on the independence of legal advice in the asylum process. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft “A Federal Act amending the 2005 Foreign Police Act” in 13 of the Supplements. Mr Mahrer, Mr Ing. Einwallner, Dr. Zadić, Dr. Krisper, colleagues submitted an additional or amendment request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mahrer, Ing. Einwallner, Dr. Zadić, Dr. Krisper, colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to points 3a, 3b and 5 respectively. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of these amendments to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on 'Teachers - Integration'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[14:53:41]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 46/A by Mr Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Staff Act 1948, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Service law Novelle 2019) (9 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12153	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnette has now come to speak. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12183	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The negotiations on the right of service for public servants – unlike here in the house – are of great public attention. [[Unrest in the hall]] Most of the focus is on how high the percentage increase in public relations is, but much more decisive is the way in which the framework law for public services develops: Are there the same rules in the public sector as for workers and employees in the economy, or are there differences? Will these differences be greater or smaller? If there are differences: Are these factually justified or not? For many years, therefore, my group's request has been addressed to the responsible members of the government: Take the demands of the employer side into the negotiations when you sit down with the trade union! I told the Red Secretary of State Steßl and Duzdar at the time, and I gave it to the blue Minister of Civil Service Strache and gave it to you as a wish in the negotiations, Mr Müller, I also allowed myself. Yes, the public officials should, of course, – completely out of question – receive a salary increase as well as other professional groups, and of course there should be changes in the framework law. For example, if there is a part-time reintegration in the economy after a long illness, the public Staff also have it – the same right for all should be the standard. However, there are also old pots cut off, such as a paid lunch break that still exists in the public service, or an improvement in the day-to-day arrangement. The same right for all must not be a one-way road, this applies to the good as to the bad. If we are voting today on a new arrangement for the time when a public official can leave the vacation, we must ask the same question again. There is a European decision that requires this innovation in the right of vacation, but one can also look at what applies to workers and employees in this regard under the Holiday Law. If the destination is good and right there, then you could take it into the right for the public servants. If the provision in the holiday law is not sufficient, I have to ask myself: Why don't we rehabilitate them with the civil service right now? There's a difference that can't be explained. Because these are two rules, the differences between two worlds are cemented – for no objective reasons. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] This fundamental requirement for greater justice between the different professional groups does not correspond to the bill we are negotiating today, so my group cannot support it in this form. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12306	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magnette has now come to speak. Friedrich Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12338	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We're negotiating the 3rd. Service law Novelle 2019. Our public servants are not just a bearing pillar that needs it to function in our Republic, they are just as a bearing pillar in our society. They fulfil important functions that are necessary for our cohabitation, and I would like to thank them very much today at this point too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this respect, service lawyers always have a special task. With this novel, we do not link a Christmas pack as one might believe, but we contribute to the fact that our public service can work under modern conditions for our citizens, because the officials in the public service ultimately implement the laws we decide here. In addition to the salary adjustment for 2020, which averages 2.3 percent more salary, I would like to highlight further points, but I would like to thank all the negotiators of the service provider and of the employee side for this result. With the abandonment of the deadline for the possibility of a part-time reintegration, we are responding to numerous positive experiences we made last year. The time-limit is therefore deleted. It makes sense to have this part-time reintegration available indefinitely. With the exclusion of double claims on the occasion of the birth of a child, we come up with a problem before it even arose. The papal month, on which public servants have been entitled for a long time, has also been introduced in the private sector, and this would, as it were, create a double claim for contract staff. That someone can double-use this papa month, we rule out this regulation for public servants in the past. With the introduction of special provisions for school evaluators, we implement a matter important to the Ministry of Education, because we create around 25 central planning posts that accept the tasks of external school evaluation defined in the Education Reform Act 2017. This will continue to maintain the quality of education institutions in our country. With a completely different change, i.e. the reduction of the pre-emptive period, we create a significant simplification of procedures and, above all, faster procedures, because if the party hearing is answered before the end of the six-month period, then this six-month period does not have to be awaited, which can naturally accelerate the corresponding procedures. The adjustment in the area of holiday arrangements has become necessary due to an ECJ judgment in the case of Kreuziger. This will give the public staff sufficient time to spend the vacation before retirement. They must be explicitly and comprehensiblely pointed out or also asked to consume their holiday, and must also be informed accordingly of the consequences of the fact that this holiday may expire. We are also responding to a demand from the public service trade union. For those who may see in this adaptation a better creation: This is in line with the service provider’s obligation to provide care and ensures that no costs arise that would not have to arise. We also fulfil our responsibility to taxpayers. I would now like to make an amendment to the existing practice and interpretation of the Federal Theatre Pension Act. It is about the fact that, in addition to the public pension claim, federal theatre staff do not also have a right to discharge in the event of retirement. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[15:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12664	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12692	Mr President. Federal Minister! Since service law professionals often have a lot of technical content, I would like to start differently and remind us again of how many employees in the public sector actually do. There are about 135 000 employees in the Federal Service, and all, all of them in common, the federal government, the countries and the municipalities – we have 2 096 communities in Austria – are 355,000 people, and I assume that after the Federal Government's salary adjustment, the countries and municipalities, as was usual in the past, will also follow. I would like this to be granted to all employees and not to be said that, as Mr Loacker said, there are only privileges. These are employees who, as Mr Ovenauer has already said, represent state action as a bearing pillar now and in the future. The future will, of course, also be a challenge for public services. I can also tell you why: It doesn't matter if there is a crisis or if everything is the way it is going, public officials are doing excellent work! So we know who's busy: I can tell you that some 45 000 people work in the Federal Government. The executive – very important for the internal and external security of our country – employs 32 000 women and men; unfortunately, only 17.3 percent of women, which hopefully can still change upward. Judges, judges, prosecutors, prosecutors: almost 3,000 persons; Teachers: 40 000 in the Federal Republic of Germany, 70 000 in the countries. In the military service, there are 13,400 persons, of which only 2.7 percent are women; this is also capable of expanding. I wanted to give you an overview at the beginning so that you and the seers and In particular, there is a picture of how many people work in the administration, but also in the secondary services day by day. I think it is more than reasonable that just as in the private sector for the public service in social partnership manner, together with the trade unions GOE and Younion, who are always in the process of achieving these salary accounts as they are now, at least 50 euros, but on average 2.25 percent, for the supplements 2.3 percent. I think I can say that this is an appreciation of the achievements of all public servants in our country, and that is what it is supposed to be. The challenges are great. In this area, too, many people will go to pension in the next few years, even there you will probably have to choose modern, very different approaches in terms of personnel development, personnel management. The public Service has already set out: not only that we have been at the forefront for many years in the field of eGovernment very, very good; with the job market of the federal government, through which one can switch within the federal service, there is also a good opportunity for the public officials to turn to other activities, to continue training and to re-train. I would like to address two areas which have already been taken out by Mr Ofenauer. The reintegration part-time: Imagine a public servant has breast cancer, has a long reconvalescence and then the possibility to say: I am fully able to work again and I agree with my employer that I work part-time and that, as in the private sector, I also get reintegration money! In the private sector, there has been this since 2017. The 2018 Service Law Novelle has also created this possibility for contract staff and officials and is now being put on a permanent footing, which I very much welcome. A last sentence on the paternal month, which is in public Service since 2011 exists: In 2015, we made the baby month out of it, i.e. also for Papa/Papa, Mama/Mama, in adopted children, nursing children must be able to use these four weeks immediately after birth. The difference between the private sector and the private sector: In the public service only one week before the calculated date of birth must be announced that the dads or moms are taking advantage of this baby month. It doesn't have to last exactly one month, it can stretch for up to a month, so there's more flexibility too. I would like to see the baby month in the private sector as well. In the case of public services, he has so far received a high degree of approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12742	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12766	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Gerald Loacker has already said in his speech that we do not find this bill quite fair. I would like to stress one at the beginning – I can join Mrs Heinisch-Hosek: We NEOS also support our people in the public service, many of whom really do an excellent job every day. However, we are also concerned about another point, namely the same right for all. From my point of view, there are two areas that you need to look more closely. The one area concerns the finalisations, namely the actual finalisations that have now been achieved, and the second, the approximation of the systems, i.e. the integration of the worlds of the private sector and of public sector staff. Let us start with the conclusion that has already been discussed: 2.3 percent were on average, we just heard. In the trade – and that is what we say: the same right for all – it was also 2.3 percent, the metallers of course, as in the past, have finished strongly with 2.8 percent. So, now you can say, if you do that in Comparative: That sounds very good, it is appropriate anyway, and it also means the same right for all! But a few things were put under the table, namely: It's been on duty since this year before the 18th century. This was decided in July. This was quite a clumsy part, which also led to an increase in salaries. What is additional in the public service are automatic pay cuts every two years. That's called beenia, and that's of course also a part that just has to be taken into account. That is to say – and that is why I said at the outset: if you look at the actual accounts – one comes in the public sector to 4.7 percent versus 2.3 percent for employees in trade. This is not quite fair from our point of view, and therefore it is also our concern that we should all be subsumed under the same right. Now, of course, you can say: Well, perhaps that was appropriate, perhaps in the last ten years there have been some differences between the private sector and the public sector! This can be said, of course; but we have also looked at that in order to proceed fairly. Let's look at gross annual wages between 2007 and 2017 – I'm allowed to read out: They increased inflation-adjustedly by 2.1 percent for the workers and increased by 5.9 percent, while officials rose by 7.1 percent and contract staff by 15.1 percent. – That’s what we mean when we say: Ladies and gentlemen, we do not find this system quite fair! This is the second point which concerns the adaptation of the systems. In any case, we should have used the negotiations to see some injustices. My colleague Loacker has already mentioned it, for example, the lunch breaks: Normal employees and workers have to have a half after 6 hours – and that's good and right that way too. Take an hour's break, which of course has not been paid. The difference between officials and contract staff is that they must also comply with the break, but they are paid for and part of the working time. Now, of course, you can say: Well, my goodness, this half-hour doesn't make the herb fat! But if you calculate it, then you arrive at 2.5 hours a week, 10 hours a month with half an hour a day; over the course of a working year, that is 15 days. – These are the things that we say it’s an unequal treatment, it’s not okay, and that’s why you can’t just pull your shoulder and say: It's all right! The same right for all means that we must create a structure which no longer knows about second- and third-class workers. It should be stressed once again how much we appreciate NEOS' work in the public service, but such a strong wage increase, beyond inflation, without any reforms being addressed in return, has a flawed impact on taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12821	Mr Christian Lausch is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12845	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It's already been a lot about the 3. Service law-Novelle. Of course, such a thing is always a somewhat confusing game. The 3. From our point of view, Service Law-Novelle finds absolute approval. Of course, in our opinion, it is not the big throw. It is also necessary to say, at the end of the wage: Under black and blue he was higher, he was fairer, he was better, that is, the new service law novels would have been different today. What you have completely forgotten again is the following – we have already mentioned it today; I cannot fully understand the figures –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] We already have 50,000 executive officers in Austria, namely 30,000 police officers, 20,000 army members and 3,000 judicial guards, but the executive is still a small part of the federal staff. In this sense, the executive urgently needs its own executive duty. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Since the Black and Blue Federal Government was already relatively far, it has now completely fallen asleep again. It should not be forgotten, however, because I believe that the executive officials – police, military, judicial forces – did not forget that at that time, a few years ago, the ÖVP as the official party has been very strong for the executive. This is actually not the case. If you look at this new service law novel, you can see that there is no even a kind of executive service right in it. The new Federal Government, which will be the member of the ÖVP, will be measured by whether it is at last about creating the long-needed right to serve the executive. It was also always in negotiation between red and black, one has never been able to get through to create a service right for this professional group. I think that would be an important step. It was also promised several times by ÖVP-side. It would have been possible for us to do so. We've always said: Your own executive duty is important, is correct and is already overdue. In this sense, I think that the executive has a high priority, although, in addition to the many teachers and administrative officials, it is not the majority of this group; however, the service law is unclear, the service law applies to all Federal officials – and that is no longer the case in modern times. You should take out the executive, because other work, other requirements require a different right of service. This has been implemented for a long time, but nothing goes on at all. It is once again a task for you to address this in time to colleagues of Ofenauer, colleagues. The executive is waiting for it. The ÖVP has promised to do something with us, now it is up to you, because something also has to do. We know that costs money, but it's an important step in the right direction. Executive service is heavy work, is heavy duty, shift and change service, it means weekend service, family and own security abductions. The executive provides daily public security, the security of all of us. One should appreciate that, and after years of promises one should finally implement one’s own right of service and trust one’s own. We will see what the new Federal Government will do about it. It would be important all the time, it has been promised more often and repeatedly pushed to the long bank. We liberals would have done this, but now, as I said, one can only hope that the ÖVP finally trusts with any partner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12902	Mrs Mag.a Eva Blimlinger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12927	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Estimated attendance in the gallery and at home in front of the TV devices and in front of the laptops that you can stream the session! I would like to comment briefly on the comments made by my previous speaker: One's own executive right is, I believe, not the most important thing we have to deal with. There are much more pressing problems in the public service, in particular with regard to post-occupying. It is, or has always been, a goal to reduce as many civil servants as possible, not to re-occupy, i.e. to weaken the public service, which cannot be in the interests of the State. Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek has already mentioned how many people work in the public service, in the federal government, in countries and communities. If you look at this in Europe, you see, we are in the last quarter, as far as the share is concerned, as only 18 percent of the people in employment are in the public service. In Norway, Denmark, Sweden, it is 30 percent. I think we should increase the number, especially in the field of teachers, teachers, educators, educators, but also in hospitals and, of course, in the administration, because the administration serves the citizens. It's wonderful how this works compared to 20, 25 years ago: Within three days you will get a passport, while it used to take three weeks and three visits to police, community et cetera. So it's not about a slim state, it's about a good and safe state. What we will decide today consists of three elements. One is the increase in references and salary, which we naturally agree with. If the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats want an approximation of the public service to the private sector, I can only say: That's what we're going to do! The private sector should adapt to the public service and make working conditions the same as in the public service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Double builder: We can do that too! That's okay!]] For example, the lunch break should also be included in working time in private service conditions. A second area is the implementation of the function of the school evaluators in the BDG and in-vehicle legislative bodies. In this, I think, is a very important step to see, namely that schools do not only come to the tapet when they are a so-called focal school, but already before when problems occur. It may also provide a direct notification to the service authority, to the central office, and may be sought in a short time to find solutions. To this end, it is also necessary for the evaluators to be able to make a free choice which is not subject to any instruction that they can freely decide so that possible influences do not occur in advance. The third area – as colleagues and colleagues from NEOS will go along – is the amendment of the Federal Theatre Pension Act, and that is the question of the discharges – yes or no – after the dislocation. Allow me to point out immediately that there are still areas of outsourced federal institutions, such as the Federal Museums. To date, there is only a collective agreement in one or one and a half complexes, so I ask that in future all outsourcings take care of it. Finally, let me read from a presentation to Julius Raab's 1953 Council of Ministers – who was only chancellors at the time: "Proposal to the Council of Ministers. Subject: Christmas and New Year's greetings in service; Remove from the same. The custom of congratulating the personal acquaintances on the occasion of the Christmas and the turn of the year has increasingly also taken place in public services. Many officials fear to violate a command of courtesy if they do not present to their superiors and their employees the usual Christmas and New Year's wishes. Officials in senior offices and officials with extensive commercial services are thus forced to turn a significant part of their time and attention to the reception and transfer of congratulations. This condition is contrary to the command of economy in the administration. Also, the lower number of working days around the Christmas season and the accumulation of work at many services just around this time makes it appear appropriate to abandon congratulations in the public service.” [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you – whether you are celebrating Christmas or Hanukka – and I would like to thank all the public officials in Parliament very much for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12978	Mrs MMMag came to speak. Gertraud Salzmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13003	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Let me start with this new service law: Public service is an essential pillar of our Republic of Austria. Especially in the period of the transitional government Once again, ladies and gentlemen in the public service perform their service in such a way as to ensure stability, continuity and absolute reliability. They are highly professional in their service. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The population of Austria is well aware of the importance of the public service, as the results of a recent study by the renowned Imas Opinion Research Institute show: “Nine out of ten of the 1060 Austrians surveyed over 16 years judge the importance of the public service for the high quality of life with note 1 or 2. At the same time, many of the respondents see the increasing demands on their colleagues and regard the health, safety, education and administration as “very demanding”. The study results – so I can hold – confirm once again: Despite increasing workload, employees in the public service do excellent work and enjoy a high reputation in the population. The main concern of the 3. Service law Novelle is above all the increase in salary for contract staff and for officials in our state. In November it was negotiated, and in the end it offers an average increase of 2.3 percent, but this increase is staggered; in the top income range it is 2.25 percent and in the lower income range it is 3.05 percent. In total, it is so that at least 50 euros will come out for each. A further content of this new service law is, among other things, the expiry of the holiday entitlement. This is no longer automatic, but there is now also an employer's obligation to point out the EU's Judicacy, which has already been quoted. It must be demonstrated and clear to the workers that they are to consume the holiday and give him the opportunity to do so. The reintegration part-time is an essential and important model for the integration of colleagues who come from a longer illness. It was originally limited until the end of 2020. The results have shown that this is a useful measure, and that is why the deadline is now being abolished. In the case of the Papa month, which has been possible in the public service since 2011 in the framework of early care and the baby month, a double track is to be avoided. In addition, there are adaptations and regulations in relation to school evaluation, as well as the monitoring of school development processes. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: The population builds on a powerful public service, and this has a high regard for the population. At this point I should like to thank all the colleagues in the public service very much for the daily work done and for their enormous commitment, and I would ask all the parties here to agree to this novel in recognition of the achievements of our public service.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13060	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Christian Drobits. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13084	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present proposal, together with the amendments, is also a three-way proposal. Service Law Novelle 2019 is known, on the one hand, as a reflection of the functioning social partnership in Austria and on the other hand also includes a very positive salary conclusion, achieved by a union of public service and the Ministry of Finance. This benefit, as we have already heard today, some 227,000 staff in the Federal Government, including the teachers of the contract, but also many staff in the countries and in the municipalities – which are about 300 000 – as a result of the adoption of this decision. This means that many people, many family members, including many children, benefit indirectly and directly. It is also a clear sign in this new service law that the lower incomes have been increased more. A base of 50 euros was set as a minimum value and a span range of 2.25 to 3.05 percent – thus also taking into account lower incomes. This means that this salary statement is a success story, because, independently, the biennial leaps and the pre-service calculations continue to exist on the basis of the ECJ judgment. In my opinion, it is a clear appreciation and an expression of respect for the excellent work done by all employees in the Federal Government, in the countries and in the municipalities, and I would like to thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With regard to the amendment, I would like to make two explicit comments. One concerns the withdrawal of the time limit for the possibility of a part-time reintegration. This part-time reintegration is, in my view, a very important thing as a confessing employee representative, because this is because people who have worked for a long time and have become ill at some point – seriously ill, for example due to cancer or mental illness – who have the chance to have a service relationship in part-time after a long illness, and then the possibility of increasing to full-time. This means that they cannot be pushed out of work, but can remain. This new service law now ensures that it is not only possible for a limited period of time, because the concerns and complaints of these seriously ill people exist for a long time or even for a long time. It is important to me to mention this because in the final effect exactly this change concerning part-time reintegration and salary clearance is a clear sign that this new service law is pursuing a social orientation. I would also like to mention that there has also been a clear record of action in respect of part-time reintegration, for the large group of contract staff. They have so far been worse off than, for example, judges, but also family members of the private sector. The second aspect concerns the ECJ judgment in the case of Kreuziger. It explained that it could not be possible for holiday claims whose purpose is to recover to expire. It cannot be that acquired rights, acquired holiday claims can no longer be consumed if you go into retirement. It is precisely this judgment that has now been taken into account in the new service law; the employer is now obliged – he bears the burden of proof – to inform about when the loss occurs, or to allow the working people to either consume the holiday or receive a corresponding holiday replacement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I agree with two more comments. First: It is a harmonious success story – thanks also to the Ministry of Finance. I would also like to encourage two points personally: On the one hand, the fact that the judgment in the case of Kreuziger on the expiry of the leave is taken into account in the new service law should lead to the fact that this is necessarily also included in the collective contracts of the other working people. And the second point: Mr Mag. Loacker, I am not to have in this legislative period for us to remove well-acquired rights of working people and in the final effect make an intervention into the legal certainty of our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13135	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Markus Koza. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13159	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The wage negotiations in the public service ended several weeks ago. We decide today in Parliament. Increases range from 3.05 to 2.25 percent. Of course, what makes us very happy is that there is a much stronger rise for the lower income groups than for the upper one, that there is a base of 50 euros. In spite of all this, criticism of this wage clearance has always become loud, both medium and partly here in the house, whether this is so for the public service at all, because the public service would continue to be equipped with, we say, special rights. – Yes, it is true: Public services still have some sort of stable employment conditions; yes, these stable employment conditions also allow for a positive real wage development; and yes, public service is one of the few areas in which men and women actually earn the same amount. That's what we like, that's how it's supposed to be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is also a fact that public services can no longer escape developments in the working world and face enormous challenges, and I would like to address them briefly, because in the context of wage negotiations, the wage negotiations also call for an employment offensive by the trade union, and this for good reason. Since 1999 the state of employment in the Federal Service has decreased by 30 900, partly by disincentives, but also by non-retirement. In the administration alone, every seventh employee was not re-occupied, and only recently there was an uproar in the judicial area regarding the human resource that exists there; hundreds of additional employees were required in the field of prosecutors, judges, judicial officers. A consequence of the stopover is not only the staff emergency, but also the ageing of the public service. We currently have an average age of 45.9 years in the Federal Service, almost half of all federal servants are over 50. In the private sector it is 38.7 years, and just a quarter are there over 50. In other words, in the next few years we will have an urgent need for action, an urgent need for post-employment, and in order to get high-quality employees in the public service, we also need attractive working and income conditions accordingly. The public hand, the federal government, must act as an attractive employer. I have already said that the diversity of the working world has long been reflected in public service. The number of officials goes down, the number of contract staff increases, but also the number of private employees increases, and the income situation has not been as rosy as it is often claimed. In this context, I think of my friend Manfred, an electrician at the university – you know it too: [[Abg. Stögmüller: I know!]] He has 16 years of service and earns 2 200 euros gross, which is about 1 500 euros net. He now gets a wage increase of about 50 euros gross and tells me: That eats the rent, that eats the electricity, that eats the energy. Privileged, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, look different! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: This is the cold progression!]] For us Green is clear: A functioning rule of law, good administration, a high-quality public education system also need highly motivated employees. And there are highly motivated employees when working conditions are attractive and when income fits – incomes that allow a good and carefree life. We Greens have done this in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future, so we will also agree to this proposal for a law today and to the conclusion of a wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13230	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have tabled the Minutes on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. I give Mr. Klubobmann Herbert Kickl for the statement: “For me, what you and the Federal President have done here is an act of mistreatment,” a call for order. I would also like to thank Mr Michel Reimon for saying that “the only group of people to whom we really have to fear that there is a higher rate of crime than the Afghans, which is, after all, the liberals” is also a call for order. [[Call to the Greens: This is the truth!]] Mr Hans Stefan Hintner has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13281	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the early days of the public service, it was said: You don't have anything, but that's fixed. Compensated were any salary increases with beautiful uniforms, orders and official titles. This However, the picture has changed no later than after the times of the high economy until the mid-1970s, because the state was also forced to pay adequate wages and salaries in times of lack of qualified workers. The final salary in the public service, with 1. In January 2020, for contract staff and civil servants, it is quite possible to see themselves in the wake of the other collective agreements, and now NEOS have a unique role to play by being opposed to these increases and improvements for 350 000 people and their families. [[Abg. Loacker: But have you heard?- Oh, my God!]] At this conclusion, I can congratulate both the representatives on the employers' side of the federal government, in particular you, Mr Finanzminister, and the workers' side. It is a very good conclusion for both sides as part of the budget targets, but at the same time a clear sign to strengthen salaries and thus the mass purchasing power, which still bears the economy. As a Christian socialist, I can express special appreciation to Norbert Schnedl and his team, in an excellent way and How to continue the work of the iron Fritz Neugebauer in the public service trade union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At this point, too, the most cordial congratulations to the Christian trade unionists for the great success in the recent personnel representation elections! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Go, go, don't stank!]] I'm proud of the public service. It is an essential factor for political stability in Austria – from the municipal office to the high house. Not approximately, the current transitional government is made up of high-level public service personalities. This factor of political stability is also reflected in the interaction of politics and administration. Not every alleged progressive political demand is the final conclusion of wisdom, and with so many reform proposals according to the motto: I don't know where to go, I'm there faster! the public service is not a braker, it's a thinker. Public service is an essential factor for Austria's economic location. The authentic application of the provisions and laws, infidelity and the rapid implementation and decision-making of applications are decisive on the issue of national and international settlements. Collective contractual and salary negotiations are for good reason for the respective social partners. Only this partnership ensures tailor-made and industry-specific results. The state is supposed to hold back for good reasons. Already demands for minimum statutory wages raise my distrust, because they are usually politically motivated and undermine the collective contractual capacity of the trade unions. Rather, it is up to the State to take into account the results of wage and collective treaty negotiations also through framework conditions in the tax legislation so that gross more remains, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, wages and salaries are also redistributed. But I don't know anyone who would have been in the account anymore if someone had taken something away from him. And so in the future, it should not be a question of taking away someone's Rolex, his hunting rifle or his Porsche, but rather of allowing a positive salary policy for everyone to afford a Porsche and a Rolex. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13351	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law in 9 of its supplements. Hiezu have Members of the Great Farmers, Mag. Drozda, noise, Mag. Blimlinger, Schellhorn, colleagues and others tabled an amendment. I am therefore going to vote on the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Großbauer, Mag. Drozda, noise, Mag. Blimlinger, Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Article 13. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. [[The representatives of the ÖVP are delayed, only after those of all the other political groups, from their seats.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. You are still the best!]] [[Abg. Krainer: If that had been seen by the new builder!]] – This is unanimously accepted. I shall immediately vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the approximation of public servants to the private sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I interrupt the sitting by 15.47 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13438	I'll start the interrupted session again. I am now interrupting the negotiations on the agenda so that the required treatment of a urgent request can take place. [[15:47:12]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues on ‘Implementation of Necessary Player Protection Measures in Gambling’ (110/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13477	We arrive at urgent treatment of the self-employed application 110/A(E). As this request has now been received by all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13593	I shall now give to Mrs Mag, Member of the Club. Beate Meinl-Reisinger as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13615	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! – At least I saw him in the hall. – Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yeah, yesterday's big banging effect in the media: Novomatic sells the shares in Casinos Austria, Casag, Casinos Austria AG. This is now, if you want to, the latest turnaround in a crime – economic crime, political crime – which will also concern us in a future committee of inquiry – not only but also that, for whose establishment the SPÖ and NEOS have today jointly made a corresponding desire. The focus of this Committee of Inquiry is then on concrete – and I would like to explain this briefly now, because it is also a link to this urgent request, based on the sentence in the Ibiza video: The Novomatic pays everyone! who has become such a bit of a turning and fishing point and keynote in this video – the question whether it has been in recent years, I say it once simply, posts against money, influence and power against money or posts, influence in laws against money; as said: also and especially in the entire Causa Casinos and Novomatic. The story we want to track down in the investigation committee, which we will be searching for, is a story of one-armed bandits, possibly also of two-armed bandits and their attempt to buy, influence, make fit, perhaps to influence criminal proceedings, to influence laws to influence the award of licences; and it is, and I would like to say this clearly, mainly about the question of a very, very lucrative business with the misery of addictions in Austria. It's about a lot of money. Simply said: Whoever has the license – the license for online gaming, for machines, whatever – has a license to print money. This business is running. Gambling is a very lucrative business, and this is exactly what it is all about today. I would also like to clean up with a picture in my head, because I always see these images in connection with the investigation committee or Casag or Sidlo order: There are often pictures of a roulette table in the media. I already know when we think of casinos, many – also influenced by advertising or movies – have the images of elegant rulers in the tuxedo at the roulette table in mind. You talk excited, you might drink a glass of wine or champagne, and you suspect that James Bond is coming around the corner right now. [[Abg. Kogler: The Sidlo!]] But reality looks different. We are not talking here today about the roulette table, but about sitting in front of machines, more or less in apathy and loneliness, with glassy eyes, where once again you press the buttonerl, until the monthly wage and amounts are far beyond play. [[The speaker beats the speaker's speakers several times]] This has nothing of elegance, style or sociality, but it has above all something of misery, of suffering and of existence destruction. What do we know? – The gambling is away from a nice evening in the casino the game with the misery of people – very lonely at the machines, in the caramel, in larger automatic salons, in front of the computer, on the smartphone – and it is proving to destroy existences. We know that the creation of machines is a very lucrative business, both within the framework of the small gambling game, which is a national matter, but also and especially within the scope of the so-called video Lottery-Terminal licenses of these nationwide machines, which lie with the Austrian lotteries; and also very lucrative is the area of online gaming, an ever-growing market. So we also know that casinos benefit, for example, when the small gambling is restricted in Vienna because they have the license for these nationwide machines – and I can tell you that it is a fight for these 5,000 machines that can be set up throughout the country. We also know: If there was a decent player protection in Austria, the greed for these licenses and for power and influence in these areas would not be so great for Novomatic and Co in approaches. Apparently, the business in Austria is so lucrative that almost any means seem to be right. We also know that the state participation in Casinos Austria and the close links between parties, politics and casinos make Casinos Austria AG a party-political field, a playing field, and that has been a very, very long time. We also know: There was and there was always a conflict of interest in casinos between the role of the state as owner and the role of the state in the subject of supervision and regulator, speaking in terms of player protection and control. All of this goes together in the hands of the Minister of Finance, as a conflict of interest is almost pre-programmed. There is also the cause that we have such a low level of player protection. Unfortunately, we also know that, when ÖVP repeatedly intervenes in this close-to-state economic sector, it is very much about influence and power, about networks, about the artistic economy – and, honestly, also about preventing dissidents in this area. But it is not a question of what we know, but of what questions we have to deal with and become. I would like to add a few examples because, of course, there are also questions that we are going to consider in this committee of inquiry. I'll start with the current question: Novomatic sells the shares. At that time, until 2018, there was a voting agreement between an owner of Casi-nos Austria – Novomatic – and Sazka – the Czech – who is now, it is written, keenly interested in acquiring these Novomatic shares. Why was this voting agreement with the Sazka 2018 broken from the Novomatic side? What possible promises have there been – perhaps also on the part of the Republic of Austria? What advantage has the risk of Novomatic getting a million fine? There is a trial in Switzerland at an arbitration court, Sazka sued Novomatic. Of course I would also be interested in whether this arbitration procedure might now be terminated along the agreement reached between Novomatic and Sazka yesterday, or whenever it was. [[Abg. Kogler: That's safe in the deal!]] Is it imaginable that in a power poker around the casino's capital representatives, the high-ranking government giants, almost as acting owners – Sebastian Kurz, Gernot Blümel – knew nothing about it? Why did the Secretary-General and simultaneous Chief of Cabinet of Ex-ÖVP Finance Minister Hartwig Löger, now the sole chairman of Öbag, i.e. the participating company of the Federal Government, Thomas Schmid, obviously continue to play internal documents of the Ministry of Online Gaming Licences to Novomatics? Was the Novomatic about access to these online licenses and was there any reason, or along this question, to deflate this license from the existing lottery license? That's because that's what it's all about. Further: What did the competent Federal Minister Hartwig Löger know about it from the ÖVP? And is it really imaginable that other government members like Sebastian Kurz or Gernot Blümel did not know anything about these discussions or perhaps also about planned legislative changes? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Why did Peter Sidlo have to be transferred to the board of casinos? Which – under quotations – “deal” of which is the talk, were there between Novomatic and the FPÖ? And why did Federal Minister Hartwig Löger not stop and stop? [[raising both arms to a defensive gesture]] Why did the Supervisory Board chairman of the casinos, Walter Rothensteiner, not stop and stop, just as it would probably have been his job to talk about such a deal – like a record note from Walter Rothensteiner, which has become public, or as it suggests a record note; and also that Hartwig also obviously knew about such a deal. [[raising both arms to a defensive gesture]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Abg. Worm:... Player Protection!]] What did Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, the current board chairman of the casinos, know, and what did she do about the question of the occupations and the question of Novomatic, the licenses or not? Is it imaginable that until recently she has never talked to the Vice-President of the ÖVP within the ÖVP, within the highest team of the ÖVP, also with her chairman Sebastian Kurz about what this is all about? – Hmm, you notice, there are doubts. Who has tried to get a foot in the door with up to 5,000 machines that can be installed all over the country? As I said, they're not set up at the moment, you have to put them up, then the money goes in. That's a cashcow. Why did a daughter of the casinos – the casinos benefit when the little gambling in Vienna is restricted, banned or abolished – donate to the association of the green councillor Christoph Chorherr? [[Abg. Kogler: What?- Oh, my God!]] Are there agreements between Vienna and the casinos on the number of machines? Have they been broken? Why are 2018 at once in Vienna – what is not Amusement by the Vienna city government has led – which one has appeared? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What does Eva Glavischnig do all day? [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls to the FPÖ and to representatives of the Greens.]] What flows of money were there from Novomatic to associations, persons and networks in the area of FPÖ, but – I ask this question – perhaps also ÖVP? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why do insiders report some kind of handcuff at the casinos – many, many, many years ago – from which parties and politicians virtually supported their activities? And why are such state participations always the gateway to power abuse, the artificial economy and self-service? Does anyone in this room believe that the ÖVP tip didn't know about it? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Can one still talk about economic competence at the ÖVP if such processes, which I believe, at least, express dilettantism and abuse of power, which may also be relevant to criminal law, become reckless? [[Call the ÖVP:Maybe...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The President of the Federal Republic of Germany said: “That’s not how we are.” Is anyone in the hall able to claim it, it's not? We do not have sufficient protection of players, especially in the field of the slot game, and such very dubious decisions have been made on the part of politically acting persons as a representative of the property rights of the state. The last governments have failed in the field of player protection on the whole. Why does anyone actually believe that it is the better solution for the state to acquire more shares? - Those are the questions. The last question is: What's to do now? – In addition to the criminal investigation, the political Enlightenment – we will discuss it today in connection with the Investigation Committee – we now have exactly one thing to do, namely to ensure adequate player protection in Austria. To make it quite clear again – my colleague Stephanie Krisper will address it: The possible bets in Austria are absurdly high. The maximum profits in Austria are absurdly high. We're talking about several hundred thousand people affected here. In 2017 alone, more than 100 000 playful people in Austria turned to game seek advice. How many hundreds of thousands in addition do not contact the advisory office? This destroys existence, and we are significantly more lucrative in this area than in many other European countries. Steffi Krisper will report a case of a addict who has gone to the public. He did not play his money at Novomatic in Vienna at any machines in the Hinterkammerl, but at a daughter of the casinos, Winwin, over 330,000 euros – no adequate player protection, destroys an entire existence. This problem area needs to be solved with significantly more stringent player protection, lower bets, lower maximum win opportunities in order to avoid making this business so lucrative. In addition, there is another area, and we have to take care of it now. This is the area of the conflict of interest I have referred to. I would like to quote some of this from our urgent request. What is the task of the state in such a case? I might be getting a little bit now, because I've also been given a warrant, we should ban it right away. I do not think it is particularly wise to ban gambling, because then it is only in illegality, no longer regulated, no longer controlled. I do not think this helps anyone in this area. There is also no tax revenue, with which hopefully addiction will also be fought. “The State must take its role” – and this is really a task – “as an efficient regulator” and “real supervision” and “take it seriously and ensure that legal requirements are enforced. However, if the owner and regulator finally controls itself, then the attempt to implement an effective law and the will for a more stringent player protection [...] will become an internal tear test for each minister’s, namely for each finance minister concerned. Therefore, in Austria, we urgently need to separate this issue of ownership from the question of regulation and, in particular, of protection of players. This is what we need to do now. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] I call on you today to accept this motion for a resolution because it is a really unworthy causa. We must express the political will that this is not such a lucrative business in Austria and that strict protection of players is guaranteed, at least as strict as in Germany. As has been said, absurd heights are allowed in Austria. The second is that we better resolve this conflict of interest. This exists, if almost the owner's representative, who simply has an interest in the fact that as many people as possible play, as many people as possible are addicted – then the business is running well – at the same time should be regulator. It does not lead to a good situation if the whole thing is still taking place in a party-politically motivated union. Today, we can finally lay the foundation for improving in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13798	The opinion was delivered by Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13819	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners! Let me start with a few basic conditions on today's urgent request: The game is in the sense of the gambling law a game in which the decision on the game result depends solely or mainly on the chance. A gambler within the meaning of the gambling law is someone who independently carries out a sustainable activity to achieve revenue from the performance of gambling. Right at this intersection of game in the sense of entertainment on the one hand and revenue achievement on the other, there is an starting point for player protection. A second point of approach simply comes from the risk of human behavior that in certain constellations of game pleasures can tip into play, i.e. where pathology replaces the entertainment. That is why, I believe, we all probably agree that gambling requires the social responsibility of the state. A regulatory framework is therefore also indispensable. Against this background, § 1 para. 4 of the gambling law states that the Federal Ministry of Finance has to set up a body for player protection. The role of this player protection body is “the content, scientific and financial support of the player protection”. Within the framework of this Law, the activities of the Player Protection Agency include networking, coordination and cooperation in player protection matters with authorities and professional bodies at federal, national or regional level and also international; the protection of players, including the prevention of gambling in Austria, as well as in international gambling law, information and information work on the risks of gambling, support for player protection in consulting, research and development. The key points – let me go a little bit into the past – of the player protection for gambling outside of gambling banks, the legislator has created with a innovation in 2010 and in any case, the legal player protection requirements are much more extensive than before. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A bad regulation!]] Numerous player protection measures, which did not exist before, were integrated, a cooling phase, a maximum day play time, guaranteed profit distribution heights and many others. A major change and probably also an effective lever was the introduction of civil rights recovery claims in the game of automatisfaction. In this context, it must also be noted that the gambling law is a federal framework, that is, a kind of border for the protection of players. The specific implementation legislation is the responsibility of the countries in their area, and since the 2010 gambling reform, they have been able to create more stringent rules for automated gambling here, either in situations or in regions. Supervision of these national permits is the responsibility of the respective local authorities, and they can also be submitted by the providers in detailed player protection reports. The providers operate on the basis of, of course, different national permits or in the case of the so-called Video Lottery Terminals on the basis of a federal concession. I believe that in any case, with all that is still being discussed in the future, the aspect in mind must also be kept in mind that these rights have been granted for certain periods of time. In other words, it is likely that, from a constitutional point of view, these companies will have a certain degree of legal certainty, which can rely on the conditions laid down there. Now to the BMF Player Protection Point: This player protection agency is, of course, in regular contact with the player protection authorities of the federal concessionaries, but also with those authorized by the country. Their player protection concepts and measures, but of course further development opportunities, are evaluated and discussed. For this purpose, we can – and we are also transparent in this respect – be taken from the report “Effects of the gambling law 2010–2014”, an evaluation carried out in 2014/15. This scientific study was commissioned and carried out in order to evaluate the impact of the previous gambling law Novelle 2010 and the minimum standards set there. I believe that there are many points of approach in this, and perhaps one or the other for future developments. The approach – perhaps for all those who read it – was: A multimodal approach has been adopted to address this very complex issue. In addition to the analysis of secondary data, experience and views of problem players in treatment, as well as of experts from different fields of work – from prevention, therapy, as well as on the provider side – were collected. On the one hand, the result report has confirmed that the legal provisions on player protection have been implemented and there is no evidence of systematic circumvention. One example of this report is that, for example, the reduction in supply for national displays has also led to a decrease in treatment rates. However, measures such as age and access controls, voluntary self-restrictions or barriers to play have also proved to be effective. But I think it must also be clear to all of us: Player protection can and must not stop legal gambling, because a probably even greater risk room lies in the illegal and therefore not transparent gambling within the regulatory framework. For years, therefore, the Federal Ministry of Finance has taken up the fight against this illegal gambling with a very high addiction potential to ensure responsible play in the regulatory framework and to minimise possible shadows of the game. The results of these checks are also reported to Parliament in a transparent manner. In conclusion, I can assure you that within the legal possibilities, the Federal Ministry of Finance will continue to ensure that the efforts to limit illegal gambling and overall efforts to further improve, but at least ensure the protection of players will continue consistently at all levels. On a second point, which has been raised, you allow me a reference for time, namely the separation of the areas of ownership for the Republic on the one hand and the execution of gambling supervision on the other. Here I would like to comment on my comments in the context of the urgent request from 26. In November, reference was made to the fact that, with the effectiveness of the Federal Law of 104/2019, the Financial Organisation Reform Act, here in this House in summer decided, supervisory measures with effect from 1 November 2019. It is planned to be outsourced to the Austrian Financial Office on July 20, 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13858	Mr Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13879	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen here and at home in front of the screens! I would like to make it clear once again: This is not about the big gambling game – casino flair, roulette table, elegance – but about the little gambling, the game at the machines, in front of the computer, on the smartphone, without flair or with gloomy flair, including solitude and play on the horizon. Why is the little gambling so lucrative? When does such a business pay off? –If a lot of money comes in and if you don’t get disturbed, then if the player protection doesn’t work. In Austria, a lot of money comes in in this business. Why? – The maximum bets of up to 10 euros, the maximum profits that are expected to be up to 10 000 euros are disproportionately high, in the European comparison of the total losers. The high numbers have nothing to do with a little gambling, with the alternative to a cinema visit, and are outsiders – that is also experts – in the international comparison. But what does that mean for the danger of gambling? – On behalf of the Minister of Finance, a study was prepared by the Austrian Federal Institute for Health and Health in 2016, which came to the following conclusion – I quote –: “The current rules on playing time per single game, bet and win levels are not understood by the vast majority of experts, as well as by players. The increase of the maximum possible bets per game in the course of the GSpG-Novelle is hardly understandable for professionals from a player protection perspective. If gambling is to serve entertainment” – the word cinema visit – “and do not focus on money gains that are de facto impossible to realize in the long term, massive improvements are necessary here.” What did ÖVP Finance Ministers do on the basis of this study? - Nothing! We want to help change this state with our request. We request that a government template be drawn up by the Federal Government to ensure comprehensive protection of players and therefore include the following points, which bring the level at least at most points to a level comparable to the German level. This would mean that the maximum stake of 10 euros per game goes from 30 cents to 30 cents per game – that is the normal level – that the maximum prizes we now have go to 3 euros – that is the normal level. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] “Each machine game should take at least five seconds instead of a second and be triggered separately by the player.” – It has high addiction potential that it is not. ‘After 90 minutes of continuous duration [...], [...] must be shut down for [...] five minutes [...] The player himself is to be blocked after 90 minutes of playing time for a minimum period of 30 minutes". – An important cooling phase, especially as a addiction prevention agent. The maximum duration of the day shall be 3 hours, the sum of losses shall not exceed 60 euros within one hour, the sum of profits shall not exceed 600 euros within one hour. After such a change of law, it could not happen in the future, which has long since happened, namely that people lose their monthly salary in a few hours, that someone can play 34 000 euros at Winwin in one day, as “profile” reported. Stop it! There should actually be a blocking database, because in 2010, all providers were legally obliged to participate in a federal blocking database, i.e. in an exchange of the names of locked players between the individual providers. There was nothing out of it. The Ministry of Finance told us last month that the Ministry of Finance is currently exploring possibilities for cross-operating block data exchange. – Currently, since 2010! For ten years, none of the EIA's finance ministers has done anything about this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If we want to raise player protection to a priority, we have to start with the Ministry of Finance, as Mrs Meinl-Reisinger mentioned, that a separation of the tasks that now partially contradicts is carried out: Player protection, tax collection, exercise of ownership rights, regulatory authority, supervisory authority, legal support of the gambling law. Therefore, the government template we consider in the application should provide for a proper separation of tasks as a regulatory and supervisory authority, on the one hand, and for the exercise of the interests of the owner on the other, and we hope that in Senses of effective player protection very much to a majority here in the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13974	Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13995	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Mrs Krisper pointed out many dangers that could be associated with gambling, and the NEOS proposal includes a number of proposals. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, in her speech, confirmed my suspicion that this request is actually about something else, namely the transporting of the whole topic around the casinos of Austria and the accusations that are raised politically. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The question is already in the room, why we have such a bad player protection!]] – Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, if we want to discuss what actually makes Mrs Glavischnig, then it is an increase in this very, very serious issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You're doing that right now!]] There are a number of consumer behaviours that can lead to behavioural desires. Gambling is one of them, like tobacco and alcohol and other things that can lead to a addiction that can even be in danger of existence in individual cases, whereby we know from descriptions that gambling has actually destroyed existences in some cases. Therefore, player protection must be a very serious concern to us. The application also rightly refers to the Austrian addiction strategy from 2015, whose printed version, by the way, still bears the photo of the German Minister of Justice, Oberhauser, who, unfortunately, died too early, who has been very dedicated to this issue. I can tell you without too much to tell you that even in the government negotiations between the ÖVP and the Greens on this subject, gambling, addiction prevention and player protection have a very important and prominent place. It's about several things. Of course, there are all these limitations and limits that are necessary to protect players, it is about monitoring and self-control, but it is also about treatment offers, as well as about the addiction prevention strategy, and of course it is also about the question: How does the future government structure look, on the one hand, with regard to the powers of supervision and, on the other hand, with regard to the design of the regulatory system? It has already been pointed out, also by the Federal Minister, that although the regulation of small gambling in the current form is federal in the basic legislation and the gambling law is a federal law, it is precisely in this law that it is transferred to the countries, whether they – and, of course, only on the basis of a national legislation – allow small gambling a) at all and b) in what form they permit it, having of course to comply with the federal law, no question. In other words, I think we are doing well to deal very seriously with this issue over the next few weeks and months, but we should also include the experience of those responsible for it in national law, namely the countries. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Bundesautomatien, online!]] This also means that we should separate, because your request also says that most gambling operators comply with the legal provisions and that systematic circumventions in a study that has been prepared are not or are hardly recognizable. That is to say, we have to deal with all these questions as well as illegal gambling, and here, of course, there are quite different legal standards, right up to the criminal law, which is called upon to meet these things. Yes, we confess to the concern of this request, not to what you have said in part in your speech, but to the concern of this written request, also to the concerns which Mrs Krisper has expressed very seriously, crediblely and with a lot of verve. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then agree!]] We believe that, on the one hand, without pre-treatment and preliminary discussions, the proposal is almost too concrete, that we should involve the countries which are also involved in the implementation, and that we have not covered the question of the structure of the authorities with this request at all, so that we do not agree to this request today. But believe me, you will get very serious proposals from us in the near future, how we can deal with this absolutely given problem seriously and seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14078	Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14099	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker put a table entitled “Women’s Helpline Against Violence: 0800 222 555 www.violence center.at × Police: 133” on the speaker’s desk and carries]] [[as well as some other representatives of the SPÖ]] [[a button with the label “Stop of Violence”.]] First of all, as in the early days, I wanted to point out to the women's defence phone: Under 0800 222 555, women affected by violence are helped, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. They can turn to this number, and they will be helped. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] On the subject of urgent request: Yes, it is that we agree with the request, not because we agree with everything, but because it is a non-binding motion for a resolution and we share the intention to do so. We believe, however, that this is only a very small part of the problem. Our proposal would be to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in this respect, because all parties have said that they are concerned. I can now briefly outline what I believe the construction sites are in the field of gambling law. First, the area of player protection: In this request by NEOS there are a number of points in which they say the game bets, the playing time on the day and so on, that should be regulated. However, this does not protect against the following problem: Today you can go in with an operator of gambling, play there, go out at the door and go inside and continue playing at the next one. You can do that more often. Then you can go home and continue playing on the Internet, either from the legal operator or from the illegal operator. In other words, player protection must be independent of the operator. At the time, 2010, we made the proposal to make a so-called operator-independent player card, on which the limits are also stored. That means whether I'm playing Lotto, whether I'm going to the casino or playing online, whether I'm playing on machines, I have a card, and if I'm going to exceed certain limits that I can share – that is, it's not about that we want to tell people what they're allowed to do and what they're not – such locks are valid, no matter what gambling I'm playing. That means we have to take care of the question of player protection, because today he is not as we all here, I think, would consider him sufficient. The second is the online game of luck. For this there is a license in Austria, i.e. a legal operator. In fact, only around 30 percent of players play with this legal operator, while 70 percent play for illegal online providers. It's also a bit fat for the legislator when he decides a law that determines: You can only play there!, and 30 percent do, and 70 percent do something else. There would be possibilities to limit this via IP blocking, meaning that you don't even reach the others via the Internet. There is the variant about the so-called payment services: For everything you do on the Internet, you need a credit card or the like. There are ways to prevent these payment services and prevent you from even playing there. There are also the variants to simply make more licenses, not just one but several licenses. That's something we should look at. That we have passed a law here, which is only 30 percent valid and 70 percent is not, I think, a construction site. This is one thing the legislator is called upon to think about how he regulates not only 30 percent but 100 percent. The third construction site was addressed – I would call it good governance –: There is one who takes the money, the gambling charge. The same enforces the law and is the supervision, also makes legislative proposals to the High House, indirectly regulates the federal participation in gambling companies and is also responsible for the protection of players. For example: The city of Vienna has divided these functions into three places. One takes the money, one is responsible for control and law and the third party is responsible for player protection. It's reasonable if that's separate. There you can take an example in the city of Vienna, as in many other questions. But that is something that should also be looked at by a committee of inquiry, namely how to divide these different tasks of the federal government into different places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A fourth example of a construction site is the so-called small gambling. There are two types of small gambling: the one that runs the country, and the one that requires a federal concession. One is country play or little gambling, the other is VLT, Video Lottery Terminal. For the customer it is not at all apparent where he is right now, but this one regulates the country, the other of the Federation. For example, Vorarlberg is a country of ban, but VLTs exist whether the country wants it or not. There's a discussion in Villach, the mayor there says he doesn't want to do this on and on himself, not at all next to the Social Office, not even near schools, but the federal government nevertheless approves it. We also have the problem in Vienna. Vienna is a country like Vorarlberg, but there is VLT – thank God only one: Bohemian Prater. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Three locations...!]] – Yeah, that's the situation we have. Is that something we want? – No, that is in fact completely irregular. Either the little gambling is allowed or not. But there is a construction site that allows it. And with regard to the operations – the application takes care of the operations, i.e. a small part of these construction sites –: Are the bets small? – For a game maybe already, but for what can be lost in the hour, in the week, in the month, they are definitely beyond small. Our proposal is therefore: All parties are working together and we are setting up a survey committee – we will submit a written proposal in the next few days – in which these construction sites will be dealt with. I honestly believe that this is one thing that concerns us all, and not just the parties that are just happened to negotiate a coalition. All parties should be involved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then there is an up-to-date topic, which is also indirectly related to player protection, namely the question regarding casinos Austria, that Novomatic wants to sell its shares to a Czech co-owner. For two reasons, we consider it very important that the federal government, the Öbag, increase the shares. First of all, it prevents an absolute majority of the Czech gambling group from taking part in the casinos of Austria and thus achieves that the federal government is involved in the purchase of Novomatic shares for an economic reason. At the moment, the federal government can absorb more or less of zero interest. That is, every dividend coming in is a business for the federal government. In this respect, one should do this for economic reasons alone – but above all for player protection reasons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Of course, there is always the balance for the owner, so a gambling company: Is player protection important to me or are my own revenue important to me? This is, of course, a contradiction. The more player protection you operate, for example, the more players you lock, the smaller the revenue. Quite honestly, I trust the public hand as the owner rather than a private person that the player protection and not the company's personal revenue are put in the foreground, so I hereby propose a resolution on "Keeping the influence at Casinos Austria AG by using the pre-purchasing right". [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Have we seen that it is not! On the contrary!]] In any case, the public hand should ensure that it prevents a purely private gambling group from talking to the Casinos Austria alone – for economic reasons and for player protection reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then I have one more point, as you, Minister of Finance, are right here: Please explain to me what Mr Schmid is actually doing in the Öbag! Mr. Schmid is now the sole board member of Öbag and thus the one who manages the main industrial interests of the federal government – from the OMV to the association and so on to Casinos Austria AG. This is the one photographing the secret documents relating to gambling and the granting of licenses. He used to be the right hand of your predecessor, he was almost your superior; I know that you are personally in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14204	Mr deputies, you only have 20 seconds left. Please read the application!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14219	Mr President, I have explained it to and for myself. I don't think I have to read it, but I can do it: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope, Mr President, that you are now satisfied in a professional way. But I will come back to the previous topic: What else does Mr. Schmid do in the Öbag? It's clear he photographed classified documents as an official and sent them to Novomatic. - I can't do that! That's a process that's not going on! – He's responsible for the casinos, he's gone! Please do something! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14337	Ladies and gentlemen! The application is sufficiently supported, sufficiently well-founded and is therefore under negotiation. – That is why I am in favour of a GOG reform: so that we can remove these bureaucratic obstacles. I welcome a group from Carinthia, the guests of honourable Members, quite cordially. – Welcome here! [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mr Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14371	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, Mr Krainer's request concerning the increase of the Casag shares by the Öbag: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will also follow this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A very important aspect of player protection has been forgotten in the NEOS application, namely the fight against illegal gambling. Fighting illegal gambling is one of the most efficient measures to ensure player protection. It also needs efficient legal tools for this purpose. The current legal tools are completely inadequate. The illegal gambling operators play with the authorities, in particular with the financial police, cat and mouse. As a Secretary of State in the BMF, I myself have drawn up appropriate measures to strengthen implementation, but they could no longer be implemented as a result of the break-up of the coalition at the end. However, these measures for strengthening enforcement are in the BMF in the corresponding department. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We will perhaps also bring them in once as part of an initiative proposal. These procedural measures would have enabled the authorities to close or seize illegal gambling machines and illegal gambling facilities immediately. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the light of this NEO proposal, the Minister of Finance has a wide range of threads that do not belong together. [[Abg. Schellhorn: NEOS!]] NEOS has apparently fallen asleep in the latest developments. I myself met with colleagues Hanger on 3 October. In July of this year, an initiative proposal, namely the draft Financial Organisation Reform Act, was submitted. The Minister for Finance has just mentioned it. As part of this reorganisation of the Bundesfinanzverwaltung, the gambling law was also amended as of 1.7.2020. It is essentially the transfer of authority powers from the Federal Minister of Finance to the Austrian Finance Office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] The purpose of this new regulation is to relocate and pool the federal government's regulatory gambling supervision with an authority, namely the Austrian Financial Office. In addition to the tasks of investigation and execution in the field of gambling-specific taxes, the Financial Office for Fees, Taxation and Gambling, which is now taking place in the Austrian Financial Office, has already carried out substantial regulatory and tax audits of the federal concessionaries and authorisation holders of the countries. In particular, compliance with gambling and concession law requirements as well as with obligations to be attributed to the protection of players shall be checked during these examinations. Mr. Krainer, it wouldn't be bad if you took a seat and didn't have a break, that would command courtesy. [[towards the representative speaking to Federal Minister Müller]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That would be a break!]] – The merger or transfer of operational supervisory and enforcement measures at the BMF to the Austrian Financial Office is intended to benefit synergies from regulatory and expenditure-related activities. In the structure of the Austrian Finance Office, legal and operational competence and long-term experience in dealing with tension fields and sensitive topics such as gambling and player protection in the financial sector are to be pooled at an operational level. The regulatory control of the federal concessionaries already existing in the Financial Office for Fees, Taxation and Gambling has been extended by this Act by transferring regulatory authorisation and authorisation procedures relating to concessionaries to the Austrian Financial Office. The pooling of regulatory gambling supervision and the management of procedures outside the central office corresponds to those in other areas of the federal financial administration. And in a technologically changing and globalised gambling market, the BMF can thus focus more intensively on core tasks and framework conditions in this sector. Finally, on this occasion I can thank the Ministry of Finance for its dedicated and important activity, but also our financial police and its head Wilfried. On this occasion, I would like to thank and acknowledge Lehner. They're doing a dirty job that's not always easy. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's right!]] However, we will still reject this request because it corresponds to the wish list of the illegal gambling industry to the Christkind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14491	Mr Kogler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14513	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few aspects, first of all on the issue of player protection, then on the question of what has always been a problem in casino activities, in gambling in general, in the development of Novomatic, and why we find here today a desire for an investigation committee, and how we qualify this – in the near future, but it has already been approved as an issue at this point – and on the third to a resolution request from the Socialist Group, which we have just heard about: In the field of player protection, you can only agree with what the founder, honourable Member Meinl-Reisinger, has said. It is not only about the 100 000 people who are affected but also about their families. There are backgrounds, and it really is not to be seen that nothing has gone on for so long. I'm not informed in detail, but if you look at what Novomatic is doing in between: One shows those who try to move on the right path perhaps for many people affected in the future – when it comes to tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands – the long nose and it is blackmailed back. I can also tell you from other contexts that I know what Novomatic is capable of. From my point of view, they've got it very fisty behind the ears. This refers to the history at least since the beginning of the 2000s, at least from 2006 onwards, but I may say something about it afterwards if we talk about the subject matter of an actual or possible investigation committee – because I am not at all so sure that the subject matter of the investigation will be adopted in this form if any political group would try to go to the Constitutional Court just to increase the tension. But now to the player protection: Yes, there are existences being destroyed, and that needs a different attention. On the basis of the NEOS request, I can once again draw out the five threads – if you like – that all of them come together in the Ministry of Finance, and it is almost on their own that unbundling out of this knitting pattern is useful and necessary. In the very good justification of this urgent request, the following five threads shall be identified: In the ministry, the role of the player protection, the fiscal interests, which are to be perceived, but also the ownership rights – that is already the third – run together, there is the regulatory authority, and then there is also its own supervisory concern. I do not know whether the Federal Minister agrees with this statement in detail, but I am taking it this way now, because I think this is relatively well prepared here. Whether to agree to the request in detail and in detail: Honestly, if I get a urgent request, I'm not 100% sure whether exactly 30 cents, 20 cents or 40 cents of the minimum bet should be, but be it. [[Abg. Krainer: Maximum!]] Be sure that's in the right direction. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, maximum!]] I think it is very, very detailed. This could now be seen in terms of voting behaviour, but we will follow this up, as reason and intention are clearly recognizable. In principle, however, if you really want to take all the factions with you, you have to make a head, because honestly I don't know whether - - yes, I know, we are partly orienting ourselves to the German regulations, so we know that it is going in this direction – and that should be good. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The request is not new, you weren't there!]] Now to the role of different players in what has become quite clearly an affair: It's really about the casinos themselves, the Novomatic – how far to draw the Czech owners in is another question, I didn't know that so well. I did not, in my parliamentary pre-carriage, which, as you know, was briefly interrupted, mainly concerned with this subject, but one thing I still know quite precisely, like Novomatic, how other players from this area have been suspected and, in part, have been openly involved in allegations that were there: Purchasing, bribery, and keeping bribery on the other hand, i.e. the entire collection of a rich, growing and unstopping corruption. I'd describe it that way once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since it affected the little gambling, but also other licenses that are interwoven with it – I think that was very well explained by Clubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger –: It is also true that this was always a concern to the Greens. There I may refer to the countryside, to the Vienna Landtag and the Lower Austrian Landtag. There are clubs of the Greens, once David Ellensohn and once Helga Krismer, second in Lower Austria, who are constantly trying and fighting and who, on their part, are exposed to threats from the gambling industry due to their commitment. Helga Krismer hasn't been sued by Novomatic for so long, because she took it out to look at it and to light up what they're doing. She was sued for it. So this is an interesting discourse shift in the Republic when club women are sued in a country day for asking some critical questions, such as the way in which courses – I think that was the occasion – go to the Danube University Krems. Maybe that was good too, I don't know – I said I didn't know myself so well anymore. One thing I know, however, is that, from my point of view, such a company and such an owner should not go into complaining to Members because of a mediocrely critical debate and approach – where it goes, in the civil law way – and that in the light of the fact that those in a company which was once, in their turn, 100% public property. This leads me now to the subject of the investigation about which it is about in the future: How did Novomatic even get in there and under what conditions? [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: You can start your own gambling investigation committee!]] I'm interested in the question. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Or: What is it like if we already have the so-called Ibiza – – that sounds so nice all the time, I don't know what I'm supposed to think about – let's say Ibiza video – we've already found that it's obviously a political volcanic island today – when the quote falls there: Novomatic pays everyone!Unknown term type: "%s".? I don't know. Has Mr. Strache moved this into the future? If someone says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Novomatic pays everyone!, he usually means the present and possibly experiences from the past. That's clear! If that were to be the issue now, then at least one would be, and I would not have asked for more in the public debate, which is briefly flickered - - - – But no excitement, because we are already putting up with it; we also want everything to be clarified. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We would have kept this one track of other and additional access – so that this is not misunderstandingd for God's sake! But yet – and this is exactly what it is about –: It would be useful to trace it back to 2012. Why that? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, when, earlier!]] – Because up until then, a committee of inquiry has already dealt with this and examined it. That wasn't without, we know what we're talking about. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is another committee then!]] But: Novomatic pays everyone! Novomatic pays everyone! - Yes, come with the stories! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way: Novomatic inserts the half-republic – in case someone has noticed it. When a predecessor of mine hired there – we can always listen to this, I see it in itself completely relaxed – we have been constantly asked, but: What did I find out? – From the ORF to the press and so on: I don't know who Novomatic has no cooperation in this Republic. I don't know what Strache meant either. Maybe he knows more. To figure this out, one will probably have to extend the investigation period, only in this line, that is, Casino/Novomatic and what it all depends on – and in my division still: Suspicious of law purchase, bribery and classical corruption. I am not yet talking about Sidlo; this has been resolved, but it will be looked at, and those who have made the request to set up a committee of inquiry will do so. That's a point of its own. In the final sentence, I should like to explain why we do not agree with the request made by the Socialists regarding his intention – or not yet – because it seems too much to me if we now decide on the point of drawing the pre-purchasing rights, because there is a need to know what conditions it has to take place, so that at the end of the day Novomatic has spent too much money again, in this case by the state.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14642	I call Mr Deputies - it is not permitted to interfere with the meeting from the gallery. [[Calls from the gallery.]] I'm asking you to leave the room! – I ask you to stop the rally and leave the room! [[Prolonged calls from the gallery.]] [[Visitors are led by the gallery by members of the Ordinary Service.]] Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14684	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! If I understood it correctly, these guests were not here now because of the gambling, but about this we are discussing right now. We always, when we talk about gambling, have several topics on the table: one is the concessions that the Republic grants to companies, the other is the high taxes on gambling. Another point is the revenue of the Republic from ownership of a gambling company. The Ministry of Finance has a hand on this revenue, and, of course, the Ministry of Finance is interested in high revenue. Of course, this issue is also about posts. If it is a state company, then it is always about who is allowed to take an important position there, possibly a well-dominated, garnished with a beautiful pension contract. These many themes concern gambling as well as health, addiction, gambling. Spielsucht is a problematic disease that can normally be overcome without professional help. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is home to the player protection agency. It is obvious that rigid implementation of player protection is more likely to dampen revenue. Therefore, there is a contradiction of interest to achieve a target conflict, namely, on the one hand more revenue and on the other hand to protect players optimally. This construction is not optimal. The importance of the protection of players is high, but it must not, of course, induce them to tighten the rules so strongly that legal gambling is de facto prevented and gambling is pushed into the illegal area. As the Minister of Finance has already correctly implemented, there is no effective protection of players in the illegal field, so it is necessary to create wise provisions that will serve the best possible purpose for the protection of players. I therefore believe that this issue should be resolved from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Health offers itself much better for this. Health Österreich GmbH, i.e. GÖG, regularly and at a high scientific level deals with addiction diseases. In 2020 there will again be a large representative survey on the addiction behaviour of Austrians, and for the first time not only on drugs, alcohol and tobacco, but also on gambling, gambling behavior. As mentioned above, the GOG has already evaluated the last gambling novel in 2010 on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. So there is the expertise in an authority belonging to the Ministry of Health. The professional competence exists there, and the tasks would be cleanly distributed if the Ministry of Finance covered the revenue side and the Ministry of Health the player protection side. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] If the future black and Turkishs and greens of player protection are an honest concern, they will include this proposal in their discussions. A little stupid has made me say that my colleague has said he wants to involve the countries. If I want to bring down a project, I'm as much a country as possible, because then we'll break everything up for the next 15 years and it won't come out. [[Call to the ÖVP:Ways of competence!]] If you want to achieve something, we'll just do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14724	Mr Hanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14745	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the outset, I would like to replicate the SPÖ's request: Of course, we understand the intention behind it, and it is obvious that, if they are defined in the Syndicate Treaty, pre-purchasing rights are of course also asserted accordingly – no question at all! The question, however, which is already very justified, is: Is a resolution by the National Council the right instrument for this? If you're a third party asking someone to contract, to close something, then that's going to raise the price, and that can't be it, I think. It is a matter of serious negotiation and weighing out all the options. It is also quite clear that in the field of gambling it needs a strong role of the state. We have possibilities in the licensing, in the design of the licenses: How do we design the licenses? Of course, we have opportunities in tax policy: How do we tax profits from gambling? And of course player protection is also a very important topic. That is, we too, the EIA, are very clearly committed to a strong role of the state in this area. The Neos emergency: This was very exciting for me personally, because I did not deal with this subject very intensively until a few hours ago. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, you are perfectly right: It's a big topic, not a question at all. You have to see the addiction theme as a whole. It is not only about game addiction, it is also about other addiction factors in Austria. If you can give faith to the studies that exist, then these are really large numbers. In gambling, about 1 per cent of the population facing this issue is spoken. These are between 80 000 and 100 000 Austrians, and these are remarkable figures. One has to deal with this issue with a great seriousness, no question at all. Personally, I see that all this is also to be discussed in the field of tension between personal responsibility and freedom on the one hand and prohibitions on the other. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger referred to it herself: Does a ban even help anything? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No!]] – Then probably everyone in the illegality or the market there is even more difficult to control than at present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I also think this is a very, very exciting question to be discussed accordingly. The big question, of course, is: Is the current player protection, which is also available – it is not the case that there is no player protection, and the Federal Minister has done so in detail – sufficient or not? – Quite honestly, even after studying my literature: To be able to judge this in 3 hours is something that quite creates the situation that I cannot follow. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We had a request! That's where I'm expecting...!]] In summary, I believe that NEOS proposals are on the table, which are quite supportive. There are proposals that are worthy of discussion, but there are also proposals in which we have a completely different perspective. There are a number of other suggestions that you would of course also like to put on the subject of player protection. I would also like to refer to the government negotiations, which is an important issue. I am convinced that there are good proposals on the table. That is why we are going to reject this motion for a resolution. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14801	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14822	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Player protection is a really serious topic, and these days the addiction is not only promoted and triggered at the casino at machines, but also on the couch, on the ride by subway, almost everywhere. Why? – Because there are loot boxes that can be triggered, for example, in apps on mobile phones. I think of “Coin Master”, “Fortnite” and “Clash of Clans”. In Austria too, this issue is more up-to-date than ever, because until recently we had a colleague in our midst, who was very affected by it and who charged these app and mobile game calculations via party credit card. The Freedom Party can probably sing a lamentation of how much this addiction potential can go into money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] This issue has already been very important to us in the last legislative period, which is why we have also tabled a request. When allocated to the Financial Committee, there has been a really broad commitment that there needs to be a quick clarification and simply a set of actions. For the SPÖ, I would therefore also like to re-examine this request for consideration in the Financial Committee, because we really need solutions to this problem of lootboxes. I explained it a year ago, but I'm sure some have forgotten: What are loot boxes, anyway? – There are so-called booty boxes, widespread game mechanisms in computer games and apps, originally designed to reward players with small cosmetic objects. In recent years, however, this has developed quite further to the hidden gambling, which is especially addressed to young people and children. Lootboxes can be purchased for sale, and the opening is usually accompanied by acoustic and visual effects, as you know from the casino, for example, by a one-armed bandit. This produces exactly the same psychological effects for players that activate and stimulate the reward center in the brain, and that's what makes it so devastating. The mixture of gambling and gambling is dangerous for children and young people, due to the high addiction potential and often not sufficiently marked costs, and can become a cost trap. For this reason, several countries have already found rules in this regard. For example, a pioneer within the EU is Belgium, whose gambling authority even says that it really needs a ban on loot boxes. Austria, too, must finally deal more closely with this issue, deal with it and make preventively reconnaissing offers, but we must also really think about other legal regulations. It needs clear advice and information, not only for children and young people, but also for adults, for parents, and it needs a clear label, if not even a ban on this gambling. Acting should, as has been said, be relatively rapid. There are already examples outside the EU. For example, China has committed itself to revealing the statistical chances of profit and possible prices. Another major difficulty in this issue, which I have heard last year, is the burden of proof of monetary transactions with credit cards, for example the parents. I received countless e-mails, calls et cetera from adults, from educators who had amounts on their credit card bills, starting at 10 euros up to really very high amounts, and who simply did not know and also did not have the problem of this subject in mind. This is a theme that has had such a strong media presence in recent times that the “Neo Magazin Royale” with Jan Böhmermann, for example, has addressed this, especially the game “Coin Master”, because also influencers, influencers and promoters promote that you can somehow print colorful piglets on it, then pay something and then there is a very great gadget. That's really a problem. In Austria, too, media really report on it regularly. I believe that “The Standard” and “Profile” have articles on this subject every month. Germany too wants to accept this, only we sleep there again and just do nothing, and that really gets me done a bit. There are so many different ways to find regulations here; For example, Mr Krainer has already referred to a committee of inquiry. I believe that this too would be an opportunity to address this. ==References====External links== But we have not yet reached the end of the century. That is why it is our duty to inculcate and adapt. Lootboxes also have to find a place there: They need to be regulated and clearly limited – in order to protect children and young people. Let us take an example of Belgium, Germany and Cetera, which are already working there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14894	The next speaker is Mrs Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14916	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, as I said, we are going to agree to your request, but a media report or APA report says that the Sazka Group also has a side-deal, supposedly with Schelhammer & Schattera, and if it gets beating, they will definitely be over 50 percent. I think you have to look very carefully at how far these are then at all casinos Austria, or whether they are already Czech casinos in the majority – if this is going to happen. To be honest, you have to say that the media have done real work with their reporting on Mr Sidlo's order, because now the casinos of Austria may become the Czech casinos. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, I think you've done all the work with your dilettantism! Besides, it's meaty...!]] That can't be in the sense of all of us. Nevertheless, we will of course give this request our consent because we want to have the Casinos Austria with a majority in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now on the urgent request of NEOS and on the prevention of addiction: Much of what you write in there is right, but much is still missing. If I read it through, I have a little bit of the feeling - - – Let me talk out! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Can you agree or can't!]] You don't always have to mess in between. [[Abg. Krisper: (delighted) You never do that!]] Now I just wanted to praise you, but you make it really difficult to find something positive, because you interrupt every thought you take. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: I wanted to praise you too!]] You know, the problem I see is: Not everything well meant works well. I'm always afraid that we're driving people into illegality, and I think the biggest problem in the game area is illegal gambling. In the area of legal gambling, there are possibilities and ways to reach the players. What we don't get at all, these are the illegal gaming halls, are illegal slot machines, are also players who play at home in the complete anonymity on the Internet, where there are providers who don't even pay taxes in Austria. That is exactly what we need to get people away from, because as long as they play, I say, in the legal field, one has the opportunity to reach them as well. Now I can either win the numbers or not, but what it needs, I think, and what is really an essential point is the control of illegal gambling. This also requires a lot more financial police. This one has to increase much, much more, so that it can really control it efficiently. The following is: If the illegal machines are blocked, then there are opposition from the operators who have, in part, suspensive effect. This often takes one or two months. So that's where you have to put. What is really illegal must be locked and out. That, I believe, is the very big problem we have, and we should accept that. That is why I believe that, although this request is well meant by you, I believe that in this form there is still a lot of discussion in some cases, and therefore we cannot accept it at all. But it was particularly interesting for me now to hear the debate, because Mr Meinl-Reisinger actually did not say anything about her own request, but only referred to the last German government, although the request concerns an essential issue. Addiction is a very big problem, a very big topic, not only game addiction, but there are other sighs that threaten existence, we know. We also know that people who become playful just carry a addiction disease, that is, if I take them the slot machines, they will be addicted in another area. There are statistics to show this. We know that. That is, what it takes is to really find people, and we need the therapies to help people out of their addiction, no matter what kind of addiction it is – and addiction is a serious topic. But what Mrs Mienl-Reisinger has done was a kind of very unfair story, because she has come here and has actually continued the work of the Sazka Group. It has argued about any order that was terrible, terrible and evil. However, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger has also kept silent that she worked with a certain amount of silver stone in 2015. At the time he was the great advisor, has made a very, say, aggressive-populist election campaign for the Wiener Landtag and was probably also the only chance for NEOS to move into the Landtag. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] You didn't do it, did you? This very valley of silverstone, however, is now the connection to the casinos, Mrs. Col. Meinl-Reisinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] After all, he sued the casinos for damages because he wanted to carry 200 million euros through these video games. – So now don’t think of yourself as the always good, clean, but look at it in your own party history! [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: What do you want to say? What do you want to blame me?]] Especially the Vienna country election campaign, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, you probably did, as a top candidate, together with the Lord who wanted to deal with money laundering over the casinos. But that's already been the case, because that's what happened in 2014 and you've engaged him in 2015. [[Abg. Schellhorn: What about Mr. Hazelsteiner?]] You must make this accusation happen! You're not the super clean you always spend here. If you want to make an important and correct request, it would also be fair and good to talk about it and not to polemise it in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15064	Mrs Tomaselli is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15093	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! In the end, I lost my company, my wife, was very depressed and in bankruptcy. – This is just a statement of how a concerned playful person describes his fate. In gambling – and this is what we've heard today – it's about a lot of money, a lot of money, and it's about money that you pull the playful out of your pockets to transfer it to the bank accounts of the gambling industry. And there – and that's the real drama – it doesn't matter, because you don't always look exactly whether an apprentice throws his complete monthly wage into the machines within a few hours. Tens of thousands of helpless people are driven into addiction each year and are excluded until it is no longer possible. This is business in the most bad way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Spielsuche – and we must never forget that – provides for the greatest personal disasters at all. The only ones to benefit from gambling are one, and that's the gambling industry. Nobody else benefits from it! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Oh yes!]] And if you look at the figures very carefully - - - no, the Minister of Finance does not benefit, because what you take in taxes will be cut out again at the treatment costs. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The Minister of Finance! Well, the Minister of Finance also benefits!]] This is just a loss account, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... Conflict of interest!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] But now to my remarks: If you look at the total turnover of the gambling industry and look more closely, you know that 30 to 40 percent of all revenues come from the pockets of game addicts. If you only take the machine game, it's 60 to 80 percent. What does that mean? – The business with gambling is not a business without the addicts. That is the scandal, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the turnover of gambling companies and the number of addicts is increasing, the higher the availability of the games – more machines means more turnover, more playful, is more drama. The Austrians played about 1.6 billion euros last year, and most of the time – I just did – comes from the pockets of gambling addicts. Gambling is a business with addiction. I ask you: In what other illness would we allow a billion-dollar business to be made with sick people? – Only in gambling is this, and gambling is a billion-dollar business at the expense of the players. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Collaborator of the Liberals – unfortunately she is no longer here now –: I would tell you, basically, it makes no difference at the end of the day for the quest for a game – ah, behind you are; sorry, I didn't see you! – whether the owner of the gambling group is of a private or a state nature. [[The speaker sees Abg. Belakovich behind the seat rows]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] As we could read recently in the “profile”, there is also a case in which a man played 633,000 euros until he was finally locked. [[Abg. Worm: Do you want to forbid gambling?]] I mean, it can't be rejected by the hand that there are such cases there. Gambling means making debts for those affected, means less work performance, sometimes criminality, means broken relationships, also means – and it's the wrong account if you leave this untaken – high thera-pie costs, and if you face those of the good half billion tax revenues, that's the white cock. Gambling is a social-political lose-less business. I think that the fight against gambling and the commitment to player protection must be the overarching political goal in all political decisions and in all gambling debates. No tax revenue from this world – even if they flow into sports promotion, when they flow into cultural promotion – can bet the suffering of the players that happens on the other side. Nothing is as important as protecting the Austrians from the gambling bandits – from the one-armed bandits, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to thank the Members of the NEOS for their initiative, which has been put forward today, with a lot of detailed proposals, which we basically endorse. I think you're meeting the core relatively well, because we know from research that the faster a game is, the more search-hazardous it is, and this speed you want to drift. That is why we are in favour of this. If we were to find a majority to do so today, we would be very pleased, even though we – even taking a look at the future – of course also need a strategy for online gaming, because, as we now know, 70 percent of players are on the go online – and that is currently de facto vulnerable. At the end of the day, I would like to make another appeal to everyone. It is the political task of protecting and defending the common good. For us this means that we always put ourselves on the side of the weaker, and the weaker are the addicts in gambling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15205	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15226	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Karlheinz Kopf, because you mentioned the speech of our party president Beate Meinl-Reisinger: Yeah, we're serious, we're so sorry, it's even bitter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] - No, I want to explain this to you now. It is very bitter for us – on the other hand, bitter salt is a caramel sugar: What happened? What happened to Mr. Schmid at the time? January, where he has sent news to Mr Neumann or anyone, with the addiction - of course it has something to do with it because it was wanted to regulate the FPÖ over Vienna with the law on small gambling, and that is then the addiction behavior. [[Abg. Head: (keeping a document in height) This has nothing to do with this request and with the item on the agenda!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Of course this has something to do with it!]] It was as easy as that. It just showed up. Due to the stupidity of the FPÖ, it has come to light that there is a WhatsApp traffic. There's nothing left for the ÖVP. One could say, however, that one could talk about the structure of Öbag and the function of the then Secretary-General Schmid, who has enabled such a thing to happen. That's fact and that's a fact. That is why, Minister, I believe that we must clearly separate this in the discussion. We need to separate between supervision, gambling law and casinos Aus- tria AG. The regulator cannot also be the owner who accepts the revenue, which does not work. Therefore, in view of this as a taxpayer or the responsibility of the federal government, I do not care whether that is the Sazka, whether the Czech, Italian or what I know, which nation they represent, when they pay the taxes. I'm talking about 600 million euros of tax revenue, while Casinos Austria AG is disbursing dividends of plenty of 5 million euros, and Mr. Hoscher, the flaneur of the race route, is going to walk with 1.2 million euros. And then we'll talk about the Sidlo incident. These are indifferences that have something to do with the Supervisory Board and the function of the Supervisory Board and nothing to do with the gambling law. The fact is that I would like to quote Herbert Paierl, whom you all know well: [[towards ÖVP]] “If the state as its owner does not need a steelworks, what does it need a state casino?” – What do we have about it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] If it pays EUR 600 million in taxes, there must also be a sufficient regime for this, a legislation regarding the gambling law. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Vogl]] This is where our pronouncing and the request of Steffi Krisper are particularly important. I apologize, however, for accusing Beate Meinl-Reisinger Polemik. It's very serious what happened. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is very serious what the Supervisory Board or the Secretary-General – then Thomas Schmid – did on 31 December. For example, this should be the case in the Committee of Inquiry, so to speak. It is important, and I would like to conclude by saying this: It must be clearly and clearly distinguished between supervision, i.e. legislation, gambling law on and for itself and casinos Austria AG. You can't mix that. It always happens that you mix a bit of polemics in there, that you try to stir a little bit smooth, but the fact is that the poster went on unattended at the time and continues to move forward. That's where tests are started. At Sidlo you can also say one more thing: He now sues or wants to file a complaint about the Labour Court. We'll wait for what's coming, what's still going on in CVs. One thing has already to be said at the end of my discussion: With the Handkassa at Casinos Austria AG for the three central parties must stop in the sense of taxpayers and taxpayers!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15318	The next item is Mrs Scheucher-Pichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15340	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners also at the gallery! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What my predecessor and colleague Meinl-Reisinger said, has little to do with the title of the request, namely prevention of addiction. I don't know if you call the polemics or if they're just any theories. I and us, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are in any case concerned with improved gambling. That is what we stand for, and we will also take further initiatives to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Players' protection – this has really been expressed today – must be a concern for us; that is important. To push gambling into illegality is certainly not the right way. I am very glad that the Federal Minister – thank you, Federal Minister! – has also shown how much has already happened and that much is also planned. The player protection center of the federal government is doing great work. This is a very versatile and difficult work. I'm a Carinthian and I'm from Klagenfurt. I think Klagenfurt was the first state capital to set up its own game-seeking advisory center – with very good experience. It is about therapeutic advice, psychological advice, but also about social advice – that is also part of it – and above all about prevention, about prophylactic work. It is about the support of those who are at risk, but also of their families, and of course about assistance for those who are dependent. It was rightly said – also by colleagues Kogler – that families are always affected overall. Financial, social, but also professional problems arise. There have already been so many issues raised today, so I think we should continue to discuss all these measures, which are necessary, with experts. Today, it has already been mentioned the Austrian addiction prevention strategy, which was created under Federal Minister Dr. Sabine Oberhauser. I think this is a profound basis on which we can continue to discuss and work on. Mr Kopf has already said it: This will also be the theme of the new government. We have different situations in the countries, including in the direction of small gambling. I think that too we must take this into account, even where illegality is not the right way. I was first for the abolition of the little gambling, but I think illegality is not the right way. I am also of the opinion of one of my previous speakers, who meant that this special kick and this high addiction potential is especially due to the rapid sequence of visual and acoustic signals. That's what I see as a psychotherapist. That's what we need to do. You can also discuss it, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, whether you want to extend the breaks. I think you can write about a cooling phase in the request. I think all of this is very interesting approaches, but let us discuss them in peace. I think the protection of young people must also be an issue. Although it is said in a study that there are hardly any problems there, I am not quite as sure. I believe that information and warning about problematic game behaviour must be an important issue. As has been said, the search for a game usually involves another problem, another addiction. I think prevention is the best answer. As a politician, we are invited to make sure that as few people as possible get into this addiction trap. It is a great concern to me that, especially in schools, we initiate comprehensive education that we also ensure a better education of the parents, because very, very often, a player career in the youth, very often also in the online field – that has already been mentioned today. Young people are particularly at risk in the online sector. When parents are playful – even this happens very often – it is also about child protection. This is also an important issue that we should talk about. Therefore, in order to protect players effectively and sustainably, it does not only require a regulation concerning the level of bets in games and the duration of the game. In my opinion, addiction in all its facets is a problem that is widespread in today's society. In addition to all the already discussed, it is also about loneliness. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, All of this creates or strengthens the addiction potential. We should also think about it and talk about it. Let us therefore give ourselves the time, we discuss with experts, but we also discuss with interested parties – I also think this is very important – whether it is in an inquiry or in the committees! I think it is just important that we continue to discuss with experts and with stakeholders and then decide on meaningful and sustainable measures in the field of player protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15406	Next item is the report by Mrs Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15427	Mr President. Minister! High house! I think it was said very much in the discussion today, even now by my predecessor, what is right. I think it is also important that we have the time to highlight this important issue here in this House today. Imagine: 42 percent of Austrians play! This is, so to speak, a topic that all or very many of us are busy with, but only a few of them actually create addiction. This concerns 1 to 1.6%, we are talking about a range of over 60,000 people who are playful. It has always been pointed out that there are, of course, different types of games. We know, for example, that online play is a much higher addiction than other games, but there is also what has perhaps not been mentioned yet, the problem of sports betting. We also know that there is a very high addiction potential, which is five times as high as on average. If we look at who the risk groups are at risk of becoming playful, this danger is above average often present in those who have a maximum compulsory school degree. It is above average often present in people who are unemployed, who earn little, and in players who play very often and with high money bets. This proposal is certainly a help if we raise the last two points. The reduction of the machine life plus a longer cooling phase are certainly useful and welcome. This is also supported by us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A loss limitation is certainly something that is useful and necessary from our point of view. And what is necessary from our point of view is that there is this division of competence, which has already been mentioned several times. From our point of view, this advisory body should be located in the Ministry of Health with regard to gambling, because it belongs there. I believe that this is a health problem and that is why this job should also be in the Ministry of Health and not in the Ministry of Finance, where it is currently located. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, it has already been addressed, but I think we should also be proud of what we have achieved in the past. It has been shown – and this is evidenced by this study – that these restrictions, which were made in 2010, have led to a decrease in the number of treated addicts; in other words, the measures taken have also taken place. What we don't know, however, is how sustainable it was. It has been pointed out very often today that there are many circumvention possibilities. On the one hand, we live in a country that is very fast limited in its borders, From Upper Austria one is immediately in the Czech Republic, from the Vienna area one is very quick in Hungary; that is, playful people have of course many opportunities to bypass the existing regulations. We need answers to that. What has not yet been mentioned: Playful people have a higher potential to become criminal. I think we have to start here, especially where it is actually too late, where they are already in execution. We know that people in criminal proceedings have a significantly increased potential for risk of gambling, and we know that the staff in judicial services are currently unable to respond adequately to providing support and advice there. I think that this proposal, which is worthy of support from our point of view, needs to be discussed, even though we can, of course, discuss individual things, other measures, including, as I said – and I think, this is really very, very important – precisely measures on prevention. From our point of view, this is one of the starting points that we need additional resources in criminal execution. In schools, too, attention could be paid to this issue. Finally, to confirm once again that it makes sense for us to move this new advisory body to the Ministry of Health: I think the topic of addiction is not quite unproblematic. That's what your house has recognized, Mr. Minister. You or your predecessor have commissioned a study entitled “Epidemiology of Troubled and Pathological Gambling – Limits and Possibilities of Collection”. All of us would be pleased, I think, if we were to have a copy of it here in the clubs, because this might also contribute to the clarification of the discussion. I assume that there are many suggestions in it. We could put some suggestions into practice right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15495	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15516	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Yes, an exciting discussion on game addiction! The bandwidth goes, I say, from – under quotation marks – “all left to all the right”. I've got to hold on once: As a consumer protection speaker, it is important to me that consumers in Austria can and may also rely on a serious approach in the field of play. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, please do not be angry, but what you are proposing here will, in my opinion, or we believe, fuel and not hinder the illegal field of the play scene worldwide and in Europe. That is, our approach is to really preserve the legal possibilities of the game in Austria. I do not know if you know, there are very different regulations in the Austrian Länder. If you had researched it, you would have thought that in those federal states where the rules are the strictest, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, the illegal gambling has increased the most. These are not figures from me, you can ask the Minister yourself once again. In principle, we should try to keep children and young people in particular away from this area, and I think we all know that our opportunities, especially as regards the Internet, are now very limited. It's a pious wish to say we don't want people to play or not to become playful, but we should all be aware that we cannot stop this at the borders of Austria. Where I am already getting a little lightly in the whole discussion – we already had it on the subject of alcohol, we had it on nicotine and on other topics – it is when the greens then make a bit of announcing or ringing that you should perhaps even ban gambling or playing in general, because the danger of addiction is given. I'd clearly reject that right now. We are not concerned with prohibiting gambling on our own, nor are we concerned with the whole subject of betlocks, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, which I do not find at all in your request and which is at least as big a problem, even from addiction; this is not at all the case in this proposal. So we are not talking about prohibiting gambling or betting in general, I think, the wrong approach. Our approach must be to keep the legal gambling alive – and that is already very dangerous in Austria. It could be discussed – and I have nothing against it – that it really is from the Ministry of Finance into its own, I say, gambling authorities, where first of all the licensing, but also the whole area of addiction, could be combined. There are, by the way, also many European countries that have outsourced this, which could be used for this. Just a little note: Very, very many gambling companies in Europe have their headquarters in Malta or Gibraltar, pay no taxes there and travel across Europe, cash millions of profits there, where neither the taxpayer nor the finance minister has anything of it. I believe that this development is also very much to be questioned within the European Union. Summa summarum is also about effective consumer protection in this area, but I would warn against pouring out the child with the bath. If someone wants to go to the casino and play roulette, then he should continue to have this option. If he wants to place a sports bet at home on a football match result, he should continue to have this option. On the other hand, we need to help those people in Austria who are really in danger of slipping into addiction or overstepping their financial possibilities. But, as I said, please do everything with measure and purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15564	Mr David Stögmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15589	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the request more specifically, because with this urgent request, NEOS is addressing an actual problem, a very pressing problem: the threat to the population by the commercial operation of slot machines. For decades the so-called little gambling was tolerated by the legislator as a privilege of the countries. By 2010 countries were allowed to allow automatic gambling games with a maximum wage of 50 cents and a maximum profit of 20 euros as an exception to the federal gambling monopoly. Since the end of the 1990s it has been especially the currently medially also intensively illuminated Novomatic Group, which systematically expanded this industry. The technical design, for example through the automatic starter button, started. Each of you probably knows this from television or because he's been to the casino himself before: That's this key you keep pushing on, and then it starts over and over again. That's this little button or bumper, so you get to play more and more and more in the game, because you always just press this button anyway; that's this one key that pushes you to play more often. [[The speaker points out by hand the repeated pressing of a button]] The result was that the increasing spread of slot machines of small gambling also led to a strong increase in gambling. According to a 2006 report by the university professor Herwig Scholz, there were also significantly more sickly playful people, players than in other federal states that did not allow it. In Carinthia, for example, a “massive expansion” of patients was registered after approval in 1997. There was a special risk also for young players who could only compete at the time through the little gambling and then somehow were surrounded by big gambling in the casinos and got into them; Status quo they come in there. As a result, the legislator continued to work once again in 2010. However, instead of making a stronger regulation, which would actually have been sensible, the excessive practice of automatic operators, prohibited after several court judgments, was legalized with too high use and profits and the dangerous abuse was raised to the legal standard. That's the problem behind that. The red-green government in Vienna has drawn the only logical consequence from this whole thing: The new regulation was not implemented, but the little gambling was banned. This is still a green success – together with the Red – and also a parade example in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Ellensohn was also a powerful driving force on this issue. In other Länder, however, the problem remains. The NEOS application shows some useful suggestions on how to reduce the risk by slot machines: reducing the use, extending the duration of the game, automatic interruption of the game, limiting losses per hour – all of this helps to reduce the losses that often hit particularly weak populations and also leads to existential crises or personal dramas and procurement crime. There is also a very high potential for crime in the gambling sector, and that is a problem. Other suggestions, such as the reduction of profits, are just as suitable to reduce the drive to the game. It should be noted that not only the country's autoplay should be recorded, but also the so-called video lottery terminals, which are operated as an online gambling game due to the lottery concession. In addition, however, there would be a need to introduce similar restrictions for the casino auto-happiness game, because there is the same systematic risk of the same risk potential. The NEOS application contains some steps in the right direction. All in all, however, much more and much more comprehensive reforms need to be launched. For example, advertising bans would be a concern to have central government control up to a purely state exercise of gambling according to the model of Norwegians would be imaginable ways that could be taken. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: This is also much better, because the mail chesser...!]] We also need to discuss how we can control and capture the problem of illegal gambling in Austria. In 2017 alone, more than 2 800 play equipment were confiscated in Austria and more than 1,200 criminal applications were filed, and the trend is rising. Do you know what the federal government was leading when it came to seized equipment? – It was Upper Austria, with over 1 100 seized devices. There is even the little gambling allowed. In this context, therefore, there is a need for uniform conditions and legal requirements in order to be able to take real forced measures against illegal play areas. All of this should and must be discussed thoroughly. So we're far from at the end of this Causa gambling game. Today we will agree, we welcome the NEOS initiative to recall this important concern and to prepare concrete legislative measures, expressly thanks for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15641	No one is reporting on this. We come to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution 110/A(E) by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on the implementation of necessary measures for the protection of players in gambling. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krainer, colleagues and colleagues, on ‘Keeping the influence at Casinos Austria AG by using the pre-purchasing right’. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[17:45:38]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 24/A by Mrs Ing. Markus Vogl, Peter Wurm, colleagues in a federal law that adopts the VKI Finance Act 2019 and amends the Cartel Act 2005 (10 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 94/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Hanger, Mag. Ulrike Fischer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law adopting a VKI Finance Act 2020 and amending the Cartel Act 2005 (11 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15724	We come to points 4 and 5 of the agenda. At the beginning, Mr Vogl, Mr Vogl, was on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15748	We are now experiencing a turning point, but not really so right, because it has been a question of consumer protection in the last debate and it is also a question of consumer protection in this debate, namely: How can we financially secure the Consumer Information Association? – This association is in a very difficult situation. The following speakers will then explain to me that everyone wants the same thing, and all of them are very, very firmly working to secure the consumer information association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] I believe, however, that there are very large differences in the quality of these two applications. But perhaps again what the consumer information association actually does: Of course, he is known by his collective complaints, among other things he has complained to three life insurers and has brought in a quite provocative sum in this regard. However, it is also important and active in the field of unfair competition clauses. For example, he has successfully challenged illegal contract terms with a prefabricated house manufacturer. For example, he successfully filed a complaint against an airline that demanded unfair charges from people who did not check in online. I think it is really important to also look at the fact that all people, all consumers on the market, have the same opportunities. He has fought inadmissible price increases of an energy provider. He has launched the Energy Cost-Stop action with over 40,000 participants. He has successfully challenged warranty clauses of electric wholesalers. He has filed a collection complaint in the post-data collection scandal and, I think, it is also important that he has brought the collection complaint in the process of inferior breast implants. In addition to this human suffering, it is also about the questions: Who cares about my problems? Who's taking care of my concerns and taking care of the process risk? It is therefore seen how important this association for consumer information is for our country and that it is above all a question of ensuring fair competition for the population, for which people in our country are independent and in this function. If it's said we're all talking about the same thing anyway, then I can only say: It is not about both parties or all partners the same. We, Mr Worm and I, are dealing with our request to ensure that the independent VKI, which fulfils this important task, with an unlimited funding, which is still being valorised annually, will continue in the future. The current proposal by ÖVP and Greens is due to the fact that one does not, of course, want to afford that the VKI is now pleading during the coalition negotiations. That doesn't even want to afford the ÖVP, and of course they say: Okay, then we'll only finance it for a year, just delete some of the basic funding for the future, which we'll just cash through the back door, and then we'll see how it goes on! This is not consumer protection policy, as we imagine it. We want an independent CCI which is able to perceive these legitimate interests of consumers, including in the sense of the Austrian economy, which, I believe, benefits when such unfair conditions are suppressed from home. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I think it's very important to tell people out there at the end of the day: What are we really discussing? – If you want a reasonable consumer protection in Austria, you have to invest 50 cents. [[Keeping a 50 cent coin in height]] These 50 cents, which you can't even see, are the amount necessary to ensure this independence of the CCI. I think that should be worth it to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15801	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15822	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We debate, as my previous speaker has already said, the VKI Finance Act 2019 and also an amendment to the Cartel Act 2005. This is a good opportunity to make a clear commitment to consumer protection in Austria at the beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I'm looking at my colleague Worm. In the run-up to this, there have been interesting discussions about all kinds of press releases with words that are not understandable, because, I believe, we agree on a cross-party basis: We want consumer protection in Austria – and I would also like to expressly say that the Consumer Information Association has done really good, extremely good work. It is important for consumers, not a question at all! This is about law enforcement on the one hand, about providing a corresponding support, it is about comparative product tests, it is about comparative service tests and a wide portfolio, and it is important to me to make a clear commitment to this. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the VKI staff warmly, I would also like to express my appreciation to them. [[Abg. Worm: But, but!]] I also understand the concern in the VKI, when the issue of financing has been discussed for years, and I also understand that there is a desire for planning security, but the most important thing is: [[Abg. Worm: But!]] This confession is there and this confession is also very clearly expressed in the request that we make together with the Greens today, because we are significantly improving the financial equipment of the CCI. So far, there has been a basic funding in the order of over 1 million euros, an additional funding that was once again committed to the receipt of the necessary proceeds via the cartel penalties, and there has been services on works contracts that had been agreed, which resulted in a total amount of just over 4 million euros. The bill provides that it will be significantly more than 4 million euros. There are now 600 000 euros more, and these 600 000 euros alone express the fact that we stand for consumer protection in Austria, and they also bring the corresponding financial security for the staff in the VKI for 2020. It is indeed true that SPÖ's and FPÖ's application is actually identical with our request, it actually differs only in time – and in a few detailed questions, okay. [[Abg. Vogl: No!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Vogl]] In terms of content, however, it is very, very similar, divergent only in timeliness, for the following reason – I would like to point out already –: We have just said in the National Council in two motions for resolutions, we need an evaluation of the CCI. The world is turning on, there are changes, and of course the VKI is also required to respond to these with appropriate changes. In fact, if you use tax funds for something, then, I think, it is ultimately our right to exercise a control function, to also want to know what is happening to this money. That expresses our request. I would also, of course, refer to the corresponding coalition negotiations which are currently under way. Especially there consumer protection is of course an important issue, especially there it is also important to create the framework conditions for ensuring that VKI and consumer protection in Austria are sustainable. I very much hope that there will be a good solution here, but as an ÖVP, we stand for strong consumer protection in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15897	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15918	Mr President. Minister! Fathers. I can hear the words, Mr Hanger, but I do lack faith quite clearly. [[Abg. Hanger: Look at the law!]] To perhaps make it clear to the audience and the audience at home what it is all about: It goes – and this is actually the shame of all history – in fact around 600,000 euros. [[Abg. Hanger: The... we do!]] This is almost the occasion of the discussion. It is about 600 000 euros, a budget item that can't even be found anywhere in the overall budget of the state of Austria, so small is the sum in the total budget. The background is – and this must also be said – that the financial problems of the VKI have been known for years and for the last two, three years also together with the SPÖ and other parties have really tried to make the VKI financially stable, to give the entire VKI a realignment in the sense of the consumers in Austria, because the last decades of consumer protection have been one with the VKI. Although we have a ministry called the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection, the VKI has done the actual work in consumer protection. Now you can always say, of course, that there is also a need for improvement in the VKI, but you can make reforms, but I would like to say quite clearly here again: I believe that just yesterday, the VKI workforce – which is at least 100 employees – decided in a business meeting to give up their salary cuts voluntarily in 2020. So an even clearer sign of a workforce can't be found than that all say they're also willing to really do a intermediate in order to keep the VKI alive. When you talk to VKI employees, you will also notice very quickly that very, very many of these employees are there, not to say everyone, because they are also with heart. They know how important their task is, and do it with passion. Now, it is fair to say, of course, that the work of consumer protection and therefore of the VKI does not please everyone in Austria. Of course, there are also interest groups, I say, who prefer not to have consumer protection or a weak consumer protection, and these forces should not and should not actually prevail. Summa summarum was actually everything on track, you – or your colleagues – have been there too. [[towards Abg. Hanger]] We therefore had more or less cross-party rules, we also – for which I am very grateful – have, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, designed a legislative text that would have meant the medium- to long-term assurance of a satisfactory work of the VKI, and it has become and is now torpeded by the ÖVP – I say it so clearly. But that only surprises me a little, I say once, and not in the depth. I'm used to a lot, I'm not 20 either, that is, I'm not so dramaticly surprised. But what I was shocked at – I also said in committee – what really shocked me in the Committee on Budgets last week is the attitude of the Greens. This is no longer understandable to me, because the topic of VKI cannot fail your coalition negotiations with the ÖVP. There will be much more dramatic issues, and 600,000 euros and the VKI will not let the coalition talks get into place. Consumer protection has been a topic for your predecessors, whom I have still experienced in Parliament, for decades, which has once been an ideological one of the core issues and core competences of the Greens. But you give up this voluntarily, without any resistance and without need, and I am already very excited, Mrs Fischer, as you want to explain. I think you're going to do it with English tongues, clear, but it's left what's really dramatic: We are here today – to blame for this – the Greens are the opportunity to ensure that VKI is truly stable in the medium to long term, and this is an original sin that you will have to live with for a very long time. There has been a similar theme for your predecessors, for the Greens in the last period – I say it again – as the Greens have also made the robbers, for the luxury pensions that were thus secured for the next decades. The Greens have also played their part in ensuring that the luxury pensions, the 10 000, 15 000 euro-pensions at the National Bank and Co, are guaranteed, and you, Mrs Fischer, are doing something similar today in consumer protection. They nod something with the ÖVP, which will drive the VKI into bankruptcy at the latest in the middle of next year. And should you not be able to conclude this coalition with the ÖVP, or should you then expect in the summer of 2020 that the Minister of Finance, who is then responsible, may not fulfill the promises you have received, then the VKI history is and will not be new in the form as it exists today. That means once he's dead, he'll stay dead. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ernst-Dziedzic.]] After many years of work in consumer protection, I am firmly convinced that there are some groups in Austria that have exactly this strategic goal, and the Greens are helping to achieve this strategic goal today. It's really shocking and shocking to me. You, Mrs Fischer, are getting the floor right now, and I am already excited how you want to explain this to the population in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15984	Mrs Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16006	So I don't think we're going to make a dialogue here because consumer protection is far too important than that two or three parties are now in the same position. We are all concerned about consumer protection. It's about fair competition, and that's what we're going to do if we make sure that rules are complied with. This means that we are constructively improving consumer protection in such a way that there is no party influence on the one hand and that on the other hand, we are facing the challenges of the present age – whether in the area of data protection, whether in the field of collective complaints or also in terms of the planned obsolescence. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] If we want to see the Consumer Information Association in the role it belongs to – for the benefit of the population and also for the benefit of the economy, the We will find a common way of working for small and medium-sized enterprises that are not enriched by the Internet. This common path is not to say that the Chairman of the Consumer Protection Committee has for years made too little and knew that the VKI is in a precarious situation. What we're doing today is a first step, it's a milestone: For the first time, there will be a law that will provide the VKI for a year financially as it has never been established. There is a committee recommendation that the CCI should receive more than EUR 600 000 than before. I think it is right and important that the threat of liquidation is held back. This law is a first step in this direction. It needs independent consumer protection for all of us and not for one or two parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16051	The next item is Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16075	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Consumer Information Association has been making an important contribution to the protection of consumers in this country for several decades. In recent years, he has also presented several studies showing the presence of the total herbicide glyphosate in foods and products of daily life. On the basis of these many studies and other studies by independent institutions, the ban on glycosate was decided here in the High House in July 2019 by a large majority. All the more so it has met me as an agricultural spokesman for my group and much more as a mother of two children than the news has reached me that Federal Chancellor Bierlein has banned this ban by 1. It will not enter into force in January 2020. It is also amazing to see the positioning of the Greens, who have only been denied their position on this issue by the ÖVP. On the spot, I would like to make an appeal to all the political groups in the House: We have the opportunity today and now to ban this probably carcinogenic drug, and I would ask you to agree to our request. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that the ÖVP would like to prevent this ban with all vehemence and not let it enter into force is already known, however, former Minister of Agriculture Köstinger was one of the biggest lobbyists of Monsanto and Co. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We as SPÖ see it as our task to protect the people of this country from such means, especially if they are cancer-stimulating. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16213	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16237	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Let me begin by saying that the VKI is undoubtedly and indisputably the consumer protection institution in our Republic and, in the past decades, through an immense and high-quality work, especially in the area of law enforcement, has developed a status that can be said to be a cornerstone of our living rule of law. Austria needs – and we need NEOS – strong institutional consumer protection, especially – that has already been said before – from the point of view of the economy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I come to the point: The VKI is financially disastrous, it is bad – that is why we are talking about VKI today – and that is – and that must also be said – also a failure of the previous governments. This situation, which is present here today, has not occurred from today on to tomorrow, but has built up and accumulated for years and crystallizes itself here and today. And this, ladies and gentlemen, has structural reasons, which I think has been far too little spoken of today. If you look at the history of the VKI, you can see that it is created by the spirit of the social society, in the founding decades of the Second Republic, occupied with members from all major players of the Republic: the ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture. This was originally the concept, but it was preprogrammed that there were conflicts of interest. It is quite clear that the Chamber of Commerce has no great joy when the VKI, in which it is a member, takes action against its own members. Thus, the number of members has been gradually reduced, and today we stand with a VKI that has a single regular member. This only regular member is the Chamber of Workers, and that is a problem, ladies and gentlemen, my dear. We have a shredded construction, a horse's foot, because the only member of the workers' chamber is of course the reason for the fact that the VKI is not independent. As representatives of SPÖ can still say so often that they are for an independent VKI, that is simply not the case. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is also understandable that social democracy now wants to cement this status. And that's exactly what happened, that would be decided what SPÖ and FPÖ are applying for here. But we don't want this incement right now. We want a strong one, we want one financed and we want an independent VKI, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The right time for creating this independent VKI and considering how it can look is right now. Why is he right now? . Because at European level, it is currently one, I say, record-tectonics in the field of euro- This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problem of consumer The EU Competitiveness Council agreed about two weeks ago on a proposal for a Directive on Association Complaints in the framework of a major New Deal for Consumers. What is apparent here is a very basic renewal in the field of associational complaints across Europe, and this will affect the VKI. That is why we cannot set up the status quo and therefore NEOS agrees with the request of EIAP and Greens and advocates strong, secure and, above all, independent consumer protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16294	Next speaker: Mrs Eva-Maria Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16316	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague Hanger and colleague Fischer have already said, today's request will ensure the work of the VKI for the coming year 2020 and thus increase the previous funding by EUR 600 000 to a total of EUR 475 million. This is indeed also a strong signal for consumer protection in Austria today. At the same time, it is also a clear commitment to consumer protection and the role played by the VKI in this area. At the same time, however, we also make a clear commitment to ensuring funding for the following years on the basis of an evaluation relating to VKI. The VKI is on the go in a wide range of topics: He advises, represents, provides information. I can draw on this extensive portfolio of topics that concern me personally in my political and professional work, namely the provision of information on technology, online offers or the Internet. In this essential area – in which this is of course also necessary – many people who need information in dealing with online shops, with contracts et cetera, want an impartial, independent opinion. We also see that – with regard to the shadow pages of the Internet – criminal online shops, fakes or purchased online reviews, which naturally also influence opinions, and that identity theft takes place or there are security leaks in apps. Wherever reality is, it takes good information so that you don't fall into the trap at all, or advice on the enforcement of your own rights. I would also like to reject the criticism that the economy has no interest in having a strong consumer protection system here, because it is very important to protect those fair entrepreneurs who comply with our laws and that foreign online shops, which also deliver to Austria and do not respect consumer rights, will also do something to prevent them. We all know that, due to the new elections, due to the transitional situation, even because we have not been able to decide a budget until now, we are consciously saying: We need to create a transitional solution for 2020 and take a long-term solution into the forthcoming budget on the basis of the evaluation. I believe that it is in our sense to act responsibly for the state and also for the citizens. Responsible action means also taking a step back, planning, analysing, evaluating. We don't leave anyone in the rain. Just today, we're showing that we're building a bridge until we have a mature budget plan. We are also responsible for taxpayers and consumers. That is why this request by Mr Hanger and Mr Fischer is precisely the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16361	Next speaker: Mr Martin Litschauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16382	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Listeners and listeners! The Consumer Information Association has done a lot, a lot and a lot of good work in recent years. I have always appreciated this and therefore also a warm thanks to the VKI in my first speech here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have noticed in my work as an energy consultant that in Austria very often assistance is necessary. For example, the electricity bills I've seen with my customers are partly so inconspicuous that they're sometimes not understood by academics. This often explains why a power supply change is so difficult, why it is so difficult to switch. It would only be a handful of numbers needed, and one could actually represent them on one side of paper. Since the situation is the same as it is, the VKI has made a very valuable contribution in recent years, I believe, by pointing out how on the one hand such electricity supply changes can work and on the other hand, eco electricity is not more expensive than fossil electricity. In addition, he also explained how Greenwashing works – when dirty electricity on the electricity bill suddenly becomes clean. This shows how important the VKI is in our society. It has to jump in again and again if the laws are not good or if consumers otherwise find it difficult to do so. However, consumer protection is not only the task of the VKI alone, since we have to take our nose as well. We must ensure that we implement laws that are clearer and simpler. We have already noticed this, because we still have a request on the subject of glyphosate today, in which we need to fix something. We will, of course, go along with it because it is also about protecting the Austrian population. We need to think more widely about consumer protection and think about how we will improve it in the future in general. If we are just talking about funding the basic funding for the VKI, then the whole discussion is a little short, because only the basic funding for the VKI will not be sufficient to cover all the issues that are still open in the field of consumer protection in Austria. There will be a lot of other issues that we must accept. The VKI has shown that studies on energy efficiency, on the life of products, are very important. Their results are incorporated into laws, norms, standards and are further processed. In the case of food controls, I think that would be very important. I remember Fukushima: Has anyone thought about whether we might have needed additional controls after the limit values have been raised there? Today's decision-making is very important for the financing of the VKI for the next year. I invite you to agree to a better equipment for the next year, but above all I invite all political groups that in the next few months we will really be thinking about what consumer protection in Austria really needs and what additional measures and instruments we need to create for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16434	Next item is the report by Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16458	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Carinthian colleague Obernosterer! Ladies and gentlemen! I can bring you a quote that I have been looking for and also found today, a terrifying quote from leading Monsanto experts, which was presented last year and announced to the public: “Are you confident that you can bring the supervisory authority’s officials to ignore the 3 deaths in the previous study on the whole [...]?” – “To ignore the 3 deaths in the previous study entirely”! Or: We cannot support the statement regarding no harmful effects on flora, fauna and the human body. - Quote. So we all have the question here: Glyphosate – yes or no? – the VKI has done the most valuable work there –: Do we highlight consumer protection and health or corporate interests that are potentially dangerous and can also endanger human lives? – This is the decision we need to make. Today, we are discussing this Neverending Story Glyphosate ban in Austria, in which, due to formal juristic pranks, Austria has still not managed to remove this actually toxic dirt from nature, to remove from the rain, to remove it from the food. It would have been the task of politics to enforce a glyphosate ban in Austria. The question is why glyphosate has not been banned in Austria. Sebastian Kurz has someday recognized or has come to say that openly: Glyphosate is great!, it doesn't matter that nobody believes it anymore. So Sebastian Kurz decided to say: Elli Köstinger, please be so nice - - – Elli! [[in the direction of the with Abg. Straster speaking Abg. Koestinger]] Sebastian Kurz might have come up with the fact that Glyphosate is not so flattered, and then he said: Elli, let's see that we're holding the subject for as long as possible! You could say that you have to check this very carefully or that you have to look at it very carefully! Let's do a feasibility study and at some point on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day we forbid glyphosate! Then nothing went on, and shortly before Parliament took up its work, this feasibility study was presented and it said: No, we're going on, everything happy-peppy, glyphosate is great! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Köstinger.]] Unfortunately, you can't work that way. It would have surprised me if it had really worked. No, formal-juristic punctures have led to the backsliding of a glyphosate ban in Austria. It would be the task of politics in Austria to decide to ban glyphosate in Austria together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm inviting the ÖVP to do this today. [[Abg. Loacker: There is no order call for Carinthian!]] Sebastian Kurz has said two years ago that Glyphosate – in fact a dirt that has been invented as a pipe cleaner – was banned. Sebastian Kurz didn't do that. So I invite the ÖVP today, Mr Klubobmann, I am inviting you to vote against today, are there, we are trying to prevent this toxic dirt in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You made a bad law! You have passed a bad law...!]] – That would be an invitation to finally solve this problem together, so: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Shows courage, fights against it! I know that there are leading lobbyists and PR consultants from Sebastian Kurzgebt's environment who make themselves strong for glyphosate, but: We strengthen your back together, have the courage, try together to ban this dirt in Austria at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16578	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is the rapporteur asking for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 10 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign on this matter. – This has been noted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on ‘Austrian Glyphosate Prohibition’. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[4/E]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft law on a federal law adopting a VKI Finance Act 2020 and amending the Cartel Act in 2005, including title and receipt in 11 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of this bill, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law a third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. [[18:22:32]] 6. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 84/A by Mr Peter Haubner, colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Liability Law and repealing the EUROFIMA Act (8)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16683	That's what we're going to do. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jan Krainer was the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16715	This issue concerns the question of federal liability, but not only the liability of the federal government, but also all other local authorities, i.e. those cases in which the public hand does not directly pay out money for something, but takes over as a decommissioning guarantee. The most famous example of default arrests was the Carinthian Hypo; because of the policy of the liberals in Carinthia, these liabilitys would have actually become beating – and that at a breathtaking height – so we are very accurate here. We have three criticisms on the condition and on this draft: The first one is a bit technical, it's about the so-called procyclicity. This means: There are crises and growth phases in the economy. This law makes it possible to assume more and more liability in a period of growth, which is usually not necessary – if the economy is steeply uphill, one does not need to assume great liability – but at the same time has less scope for action in a crisis situation. The last major economic crisis, the 2008 financial crisis, has not been long ago. If we look at this, we see that the scope for action, if it had already been done, for Parliament, for politics, for making the right thing, for example, the bank rescue or the large SME package with which we financed short work, but also a lot of liability for the Austrian industry, because it simply could no longer finance itself for refinancing, is getting smaller in the crisis. That is to say, we see the problem that in the future we will have difficulties making the right thing at the right time, because the rules that are set up here lead to procyclical, i.e. something that we really want to avoid in economic policy. The second is the lack of transparency: First, reporting obligations that were part of the existing law are now deleted. So far, it has had to be reported to Statistics Austria if someone has exceeded a liability or use of liability by more than 10 percent or by 1 million euros. - That's not going to happen. Secondly, there is no public report, no liability report for all parts – not only for the federal government, but also for countries, for municipalities, for distributed bodies – so that the public do not see what liability exists at all. We know that transparency is quite, very important in liability. One of the reasons why this could go so wrong with the hypo is that at the time, the state government under FPÖ head of state and finance councils never publicly and not even in the country day explained how high the liabilities are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger]] That was one of the problems. By the way, the Court of Auditors also did not indicate the amount of liability at the time, which does so in the meantime, but there is no automatic publication of the liability. [[Abg. Anger: Introduction of ÖVP head of state...!]] – This is the second reason we see. The third reason is: It is a systematic break with the situation so far, but there is a proposal from the FPÖ that interest on liability should also be recorded and taken into account. That would be a break with the previous classification, but that is a point we are also thinking about. These are the three open questions that stand to reason. In the meantime, I have heard that the other political groups – i.e. the EIA, the Greens – are quite ready to talk about and talk about these points. I'd say, Let's do this, let's talk about these three points, how we can improve this law! I believe that, in principle, we are not far apart, but I also believe that the criticism points that we see here are technically justified and that we also need a reasonable discussion; so I would suggest that we still conduct these discussions and not adopt the law in this form today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16761	The next item is Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16785	Madam President. Dear Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are today adopting an amendment to the Federal Superior Limits Act and thus the repeal of the EUROFIMA Act. So that it is not only understandable for the experts and for the members of the Committee on Budgets, what we decide today, I begin with a brief statement – we are not quite of an opinion, but Mr Krainer has already done a lot –: In principle, this is about the re-regulation of the limits of liability. Liabilities are the debtor's obligation to pay to his creditor, and these liabilities are limited upwards by the so-called ceilings. We also make a clear commitment to this: Liability is important, on the one hand, for the economy and on the other hand for the Republic as well. In this respect, I think, we are not very far apart on this issue. – A little wonder now: We have already discussed this in the Committee on Budgets, we have tried to find a solution to these open points, and we would have had the opportunity to regulate this to date. I recommend that we decide, because we also need a certain degree of legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the occasion of the 2017 financial compensation, we have already agreed to a new system of ceilings and implemented it accordingly in the 15a agreement. This upper limit agreement will apply from 2019, but only provides for flat-rate liability limits for federal, state and local authorities and their extra-budget units. We therefore need action in this regard, and it also explains that there was no legal basis for the implementation of the HOG agreement. That is why we need a corresponding legal basis: for the determination of the non-budgetary legal entities, the collection of the data by the statistics, the transfer of the data to the Federal Ministry of Finance and the publication of the data in the federal accounts. If we adopt this law today – and I hope for broad support – then another law will be abolished, that is, the EUROFIMA law, and that means we will relieve again, we will make a little easier. This involves a reduction and simplification of the legal system, i.e. what we actually imagine: a new law here and one that we no longer need. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore implementing an agreement on the 2017 financial compensation. I would also like to take the opportunity, in the framework of the debate on this item on the agenda, to thank the Minister for Finance for the competent implementation of his agents in the ministry quite cordially. It is also important that such laws be put on the road; for that, a warm thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister of Finance - and this has been very clearly expressed in the Committee on Budgets - has left no doubt that we are holding on to a balanced budget in respect of budget. This is very important, and in this respect I would also like to thank his predecessor, Hartwig Löger, who has taken this course, which the Minister has consistently continued. It has always been a clear goal of our policy not to make new debts – that is very important – and not to make new taxes, and I therefore seek broad approval of this law. Interests or interest payments have been raised: The aim of the HOG Agreement is, inter alia, to allow comparable representations beyond territorial boundaries, in which case a system different from the HOG agreement and from the rules of the countries would not be aimed at accounting because this objective cannot be achieved. In this respect – Mr Fuchs, I very much appreciate you, you know – I would be pleased if you could agree to this law. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16848	The next speaker was Mr Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16870	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! As we have already heard, the present draft law serves to adapt the Federal Liability Law to the 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the countries, which has been united with rules on the limits of liability. It is natural to welcome the adjustment and harmonisation of the limits of liability. However, it is not to be welcomed – Mr Krainer pointed out in his third point – that according to paragraph 1 of this paragraph. 1 Federal Liability Law proposed scheme Interests and costs on the ceiling of the federal liability are still not to be taken into account. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly criticised this non-accrual of interest and costs, and the budget service also sees this non-accrual as critical. The non-calculation of interest rates and costs could significantly increase the actual liabilities of the federal government due to assumed liabilities than the total amount of liabilities laid down by law in accordance with BHOG. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17001	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17025	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Even though some of these discussions about the German Federal Liability Law and the approximation to the HOG Agreement will not be perceived as particularly spicy, I believe that it is central in the sense of a responsible policy and also a policy that follows basic economic principles, that we regulate well the liabilities that the public hand assumes. Let me remind you of what this issue is about: The Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance may assume public liability for distributed companies. That is, if, for example, the Asfinag can no longer serve its debts for any reason, then the state will jump in. That's where the house mind tells you that it makes sense to limit these liabilities somehow upwards. That was not always the case in the past. We remember the years 2008, 2009 and the following, when a certain state government in Carinthia – Mr. Krainer has already mentioned it – held a bank. The state government was FPÖ-led and has assumed liabilities of up to EUR 25 billion for a bank which, of course, could not be used by the country at a national budget of EUR 2 billion. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The Lord... was an ÖVPler! I'm just saying it!]] I am still annoyed today that Austrian taxpayers will have to pay the bill at the end. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] In order to address this, the Internal Stability Pact was adopted in 2012. Although there was the intention of introducing ceilings, there was no level and no method of calculation. Accordingly, as is usual in Austria, there was a wild growth of various ceilings; in Carinthia, liability amounting to approximately 300 euros per head and in Tyrol of 11 000 euros. This has been aligned with the HOG agreement in 2017, according to a request from the Court of Auditors. However, the German Federal Liability Law has not been adapted, and that is why there is this inconsistency. In addition, the period of validity, which has been laid down in the Federal Liability Law, has now expired; in that respect, there is also a need for action. This adjustment and harmonisation are therefore in principle useful. I do not share the argument of procyclicality, because in any case a delay of two to almost three years is within this mechanism, since the budget of the previous year is always used. I would not agree with the amendment tabled by Mr Fuch, because this is a certain breach of the classification and is also causing a lot of additional work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17072	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17098	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Limit of Liability currently amounts to 197 billion euros. What does that refer to? – This refers to liabilities that the Federation assumes, and is also meant to be liability for extra-budgetary units, i.e. participations, for example in the ÖBB or the Asfinag. What is the current regulation? – Liabilities for non-budgetary units must be reported as totals at the end of January for the previous year. What would be different about the new regulation? – This point remains, but an essential point, namely the preview of liability, would be missed. Another essential point has been mentioned in a short time, namely that the immediate notification of overruns of the liability limits by 10 percent or 1 million euros no longer needs to be made. This immediate notification no longer needs to be made. What does that mean? – This means that one does not have any data, facts, information, and that in turn means that one cannot react to it in a timely manner, for example in a general meeting, which was the reason for this. As a SPÖ group, we strongly demand that these two points remain: immediate reporting with 10 percent exceedance or 1 million euros and the preview – this must remain. What's it look like now? How are we informed about liability? . We will receive a report once a year in the Committee on Budgets, which will then be discussed. This is beautiful and good, but in total too little transparency. It would be important for these liabilities to be disclosed and accessible to the public. That means that this report would be useful to publish on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance – then you could really understand. What have we learned from the Hypo Committee? – We have learned how fatal it is if you don’t know about liability when no one responds and nobody presses the stop button because no one knows about it. It is therefore very important – and I stress this as the Court of Auditors – that: Liability must be publicly available. To sum up, I should like to say: The preview must remain, the immediate notification should remain in the case of 10-percent exceedance, and the publication is essential. It is also good if the Court of Auditors has an eye on liabilities, for example in connection with foreign currency loans. Transparency is the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17142	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17163	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We are discussing here Mr Haubner's request for an amendment to the Federal Liability Law, and there are two important points to be implemented: on the one hand, the 15a agreements resulting from the federal financial compensation with the countries of 2016 and on the other, the recommendations in a 2015 Court of Auditors report. At the time, the Court of Auditors first examined whether the rules on liability limits were in line with current law and, secondly, whether the requirements and objectives of the Austrian Stability Pact were also implemented. Up to the present implementation of these adjustments, there have been a total of 17 different limits of liability, and the colleague has referred to it. These were standard heights. There were nine for the federal states and eight for municipalities in the individual federal states. These limits of liability differed as regards the amount, the basis of investigation, but also the scope and the period of validity. What was the result? – The result was a lack of transparency, and this is exactly what we are working against today. At that time, it was not possible to determine the extent to which the defined limits of liability corresponded to the intended objective, namely to contribute to ensuring the balance of the economy and to sustainable budgets. We therefore increase transparency and take account of the Court of Auditors' report today, which I quote as follows: ‘In any event, the limits of liability should be determined on a comparable basis at national level in accordance with a uniform methodology, in such a way that the fulfilment of the objectives of the 2012 Stability Pact [...] can be derived from it.’ We are implementing a uniform method of calculation according to economic criteria. Thus, this novelle also creates a legal basis for the determination of the extra-budgetary legal entities, for the collection of the data by the statistics and the transmission of the data to the Ministry of Finance and for the publication of the data in the Federal Accounts. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give your consent to this law, to this good law, because we are also creating a simplification and a clear legal situation with this legal consolidation – by abolishing an old law and deciding on the new accordingly. I would like to thank all those who take this path in the sense of simplification, transparency and security.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17202	Next item is the report by Mr Gerhard Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17224	Madam President. Federal Minister! As part of this debate on a ceiling of the liabilities, especially – or precisely – for extra-budgetary units of the federal government, I am concerned with a chapter or a company, namely the ÖBB and its subsidiary, the ÖBB infrastructure, which has planned to expand the west line, the Westbahn in the long term. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Lightenness: This is a good request!]] – Thank you, I accept this praise with joy, because it is really a good request. What is it about in detail? – The city of Leonding is a very large and above all growing city – the most growing city in central and even in Austria. Through this central space leads the west axle, the west railway. This is not any single-track regional train, on which one train may travel every 8 hours, which is a four-track route, per direction driving in about 20 to 30 trains per hour. This is an extreme traffic and noise load, and it is in the middle of a very pleasant – still pleasant – city area. It can't be like that! In addition, there has also been negotiations between the ÖBB infrastructure, the BMVIT, the Land Oberösterreich and the municipal community, and we know very well what this deepening and housing costs. It is only more about creating a good condition by doing so and not putting it out year after year. That means: Inclusion into the framework and implementation of the project. One could now say: Well, there's a lot of tunnels on the west track, why are they there? – Yes, many tunnels; let’s start from Vienna: Here we have the Wienerwald Tunnel; then the tunnel chain from Tullnerfeld to St. Pölten; we have the Sieberg Tunnel and the Sittenberg Tunnel in Lower Austria; and now we want to build the Köstendorfer Tunnel in the area of Salzburg with a length of about 16 kilometres. There are millions of people who make sense, but – under quotations – they are “egal”. Only when it comes to a four-track railway line in the middle of densely inhabited territory will we have to think, examine and look at it at the same time! Whoever takes responsibility for this delay is to say this aloud and also to the Upper Austrians clearly say: We take responsibility for a delay, for the sickening of the people who live on the track, for all these negative accompanying appearances! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We want this project to be implemented quickly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17338	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is then voted on. Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17363	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have now tabled the request. So we are now talking about noise protection and various measures for the arrants, especially in Leonding. In Leonding there is a project of the ÖBB. There is an approved notice. There is an Amending Decision, which went to the Federal Administrative Court, where experts are currently dealing with it. So there is a project that has already been adapted. We know, however, that there has been a protest by many citizens since 2004, that the country of Upper Austria, as well as the municipal community, are working for the citizens and are trying to improve this project accordingly. However, I believe that we are now – today – unable to decide on the housing without examining the proposed variants that have already been negotiated. If we create a change again, then we need a new project that includes housing or other noise protection measures. That is why I should like to make the following motion, Mr Klaus Fürlinger, and I should like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is exactly the euro! ...! The Greens...!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's all known! ...]] I ask for broad consent. We do not abandon the Leondingers, but we must take precautions to complement this project, which is already in an approved state. If we want to, we'll go down there and we'll try to make appropriate adaptations to improve this project! I ask for broad consent. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[18:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17475	The next speaker was Mr Erwin Angerer – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17500	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Yes, we are now discussing the Federal Liability Limits Act, and I believe that if you are talking about liability, you should be honest with it because it is a risk of entering into liability; therefore, we are also in favour of taking into account the costs and interest in this Federal Liability Limits Act. If you accept liability, you also have to see: What is the value of this? Since the hypo has already been mentioned several times today as the great negative example, I have to keep a few things straight for those who may not have read the Griss report or who have not been in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] [[Abg. Vogl: It's gonna be a business now, isn't it?]] So first of all: The liabilities in Carinthia were unanimously adopted on the basis of a law in the Carinthian Landtag – unanimously, with the votes of the ÖVP, SPÖ, the Greens and the Freemans. We have always been the only party to this responsibility and say it publicly, and I have said it out here several times. [[Abg. Greiner: That was really funny now!]] [[Abg. Vogl:... heard differently!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Point two – and now it becomes interesting –: I think you have to finish the bill. If you look at the demise of the banks, it turns out that in the meantime most of the assets are depleted at the mortgage. Mr Ditz, then Chairman of the Supervisory Board, after Ms. Fekter had not approved the Bad Bank, spoke of the fact that it would be a devastating destruction because this Bad Bank was not allowed and then the whole mortgage was handled. Despite this capital destruction, which Mr Ditz then estimated at around EUR 5 billion, 86.32 percent of creditors' claims have already been met. In other words, it is likely that in the end all creditors for whom the country of Carinthia has been held liable will be served to 100 percent. That'll be the result. [[Abg. Lightenness: You did great!]] Now we have destroyed all the assets in the mortgage, the bank has scandalized and destroyed the bank, regardless of the hypo estimates of the Ministry of Finance, we do not yet know how much it will be, we are going to assume a damage of EUR 5.6 billion. Now it's going to be interesting: At KA Finanz AG, the former municipal credit, where the former Minister Schmied was put into the board of directors by SPÖ – as we also have to look at how the post-posting happened; after all, it was also the minister and earlier on the board of the municipal credit – the damage is estimated at 4 billion euros. – One has never heard of the municipal credit in recent years; I have a current request from the last GP, to which the answer was just sent freshly by the Ministry of Finance. And the damage to the Immogon, Volksbanken-AG, is reported with 1.2 billion euros. That means: Hypo 5 billion, municipal credit 4 billion, Volksbanken-AG 1.2 billion. The bill, how much is really left, will end because, for example, some payments have not yet been taken into account, such as payments for liabilities which the federal government has taken over and for which it has therefore also collected liability commissions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In the end, then, one will have to see what is actually left, whether the mortgage is really the biggest damage to the Republic, as far as a bank is concerned, or whether it will not be the municipal credit. If one now assumes that, because of the purchase contract concluded by Mr Ditz and Mr Schieder, Bavaria has now been transferred around EUR 4 billion – the Bayern, which after 2007 took over the bank and has not held it in any way for the Carinthians – then it will be another profit. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the end, then, it may really be necessary – you can laugh at it – to calculate the numbers together; the small one is enough. If you take my question or answer and calculate the numbers together, you may come to the same. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17617	Mr Fürlinger's motion for a resolution, Weratschnig is now voting because he has been properly put in place. There is now no one to speak on this item on the agenda. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Is that the final word, Mr Deputies? - No, I don't. A final word will not be desired. [[Abg. Hafenecker: The hall is so loud!]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft law in 8 of the supplements. Mr Fuchs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraph 1. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is therefore adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their assent at third reading, to give a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christian Hafenecker, Mr Alois Stöger, and Mr Stöger, on the implementation of a housing and laying down of the Westbahn in the field of Leonding. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fürlinger, Mr Weratschnig, Mr President, on 'The testing of housing and laying down of the West Railway in the field of Leonding in an ecological, economic and technical way'. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[5/E]] [[18:58:12]] 7. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (1d._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code, the Law on the Federal Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Corruption and the Criminal Procedures Regulations 1975 implementing the Convention on the Control of Criminal Laws against the Financial Interests of the Union (14 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17683	So we reach the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Jabloner. Mrs Michaela Steinacker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17713	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! With this law, we are implementing an EU directive on the fight against criminal law against fraud against the Union's financial interests in Austria. It is the first government template to have been given to this House during this legislative period, and it is also the first because implementation is urgent. The deadline for implementation has already expired in July of this year. That is why we have held the discussion in the Committee on Budgets and, as I take away the documents, we have not only had a good discussion, but we will also agree with all the parties involved in this implementation. What's this about? – It is about combating abuse and fraud against EU funds, i.e. promotion abuse and subsidisation. We introduce two new criminal offences, they are blockage expressions: “Expenses of fraud at the disadvantage of the European Union’s financial interests” – the new § 168c – and “abuse of funds and assets at the expense of the European Union’s financial interests” – the new § 168d Criminal Code – and we adapt other provisions to the requirements of the Directive. For example, the scope of the § 153b Criminal Code, which concerns fraud, is now limited to national funding. What do we do with these crimes? . We fight bribery, acceptance of advantage, bribery and benefit to the financial disadvantage of the European Union. This is important because the fight against corruption must also be implemented in all 27 Member States. Our interest as the seventh largest net payer in the European Union is, of course, that this possible abuse of EU funding is being promoted. Our top principle is and we take care to ensure that these funds are handled lawfully. Corruption not only harms financially, it also undermines the trust of citizens in our democratic and rule-of-law administration. Our goal is also to avoid gold plating, i.e. the over-fulfilment of EU law. I should like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and your House, not only for the carefully prepared government template, but also for the legal support on the amendment. With this amendment, we have put into practice possible unclear terms – Union officials and public tasks – and have established the Committee to ensure that the application of the provisions under the Directive is complete. It also includes private bodies, such as funding bodies, which carry out public tasks. But we want the final recipients of EU funds are not covered, because the recipient uses the money, for example, with the tractor he buys from the funds, but he definitely does not decide whether he gets these funds at all. That would be a too broad interpretation of the term of office. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have been discussing these two very important innovations in the Criminal Code, including for the lively discussion. – Thank you very much, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17762	Mr Clemens Jabloner has now come forward. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17786	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to speak to the Committee on Budgets and to thank the House for the priority given to this government proposal. This saves Austria sensitive punishments, which would have already become due. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17810	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Selma Yildirim is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17835	President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The EU citizens, Austrians and Austrians, require careful handling of their tax resources. To this careful handling is to ensure that policies take the best possible steps so that these means do not disappear through fraud, corruption or abuse of funding in dark channels and thus are no longer available to the public. It is important to keep our legal system up-to-date in this regard, to constantly develop it and to adapt it to current social and economic conditions. This is precisely what we are talking about in this government paper. It is about legal certainty, but also about credibility and trust in the institutions of the European Union and politics in general. Especially in Austria, we know not later than Ibiza how quickly a damage is done and how large and far-reaching it is when politicians put themselves on the dark side of power. This government template aims to promote and develop the fight against fraud within the European Union. Each step in this direction is an important one and is therefore of course supported by the Social Democratic Party of Austria. In this way, Austrian law provides the basis for the implementation of the directive in question. This Directive is intended to protect the EU from fraud and corruption and has a deadline for transposition up to 6. July 2019. We are already in arrears, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has mentioned. The approximation of criminal law in the Member States of the European Union in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the European Union is ensured, i.e. to protect against fraudulent acts, from the revenue and expenditure side and from the assets of the Union budget. Very common: In other words, this directive is intended to prevent or prevent corruption and the abuse of EU funding, i.e. subsidy fraud. Another facet is thus added to the fight against fraud in the EU. The Directive on the fight against criminal law against fraud directed against the Union's financial interests in the field of criminal proceedings in Austria only causes a small need for change, as has already been said, because Austria has already achieved a great deal in this field in the past. Nevertheless, it is right to implement them because we are first obliged to do so by EU law and because, secondly, the objective is correct. In summary, I note that the fight against fraud in the EU is a major concern and progress in the interests of Austria and its citizens. Our legal system is thus further developed and adapted to current social and economic needs. The SPÖ therefore very much endorses this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17883	Next speaker: Mr Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17904	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law has already been clearly and very detailed. I find it amusing – time and again – that one can even accommodate the subject of Ibiza and any damage that has arisen. I haven't seen the damage yet, but Mrs. Yildirim probably knows that some corruption has happened, and just didn't tell us. [[Abg. Yildirim: We will find out!]] That certainly has a lot to do with this proposal. I believe that this is really essential, the Federal Minister said: We must implement a directive, and if we do not, the Republic of Austria will have to pay the penalty. I think that if it were not, we would probably not be burdening the criminal code with these two provisions. I think there will be provisions that will be applied as well as never before. When you think about the fact that after that paragraph, which was also changed in the course of it – that is, § 153b of the StGB, promotion abuse – it came to judgment exactly twice between 2012 and 2017 – within five years! – you can see, these are not really the most serious paragraphs in criminal law. Therefore, these two paragraphs are also included in § 168 – Gambling. § 168a then concerns chain or pyramid games, § 168b restrictive agreements in procurement procedures, and now we have added § 168c and § 168d, so this fits in wonderfully. We have therefore found a place for these two provisions somewhere because the European Union has imposed it on us. Yes, of course, corruption is to fight, that's totally right. Whether we really need these criminal offences is not quite understood for me, but we do not want them to be paid, so we will agree here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17939	Next speaker: Mrs Alma Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17960	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Today we decide the implementation of a necessary directive. What's this about? – It is about combating fraud and other illegal acts that are directed against the financial interests of the European Union. This will ensure the same protection of financial interests throughout the EU. Why is that important? – It is therefore important because European citizens have to trust that their money will also be properly managed. It is also important to prevent abuse of EU funding. I have allowed myself to extract a small statistics: In 2017, there was a report stating that there were about 15 000 fraudulent and non-ruly irregularities in this context. This means that if you convert this into money, a total of €2.5 billion of total damage. Everyone knows we have to do something about it. With the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and with this Directive, a step has been taken to prevent this fraud and fraud. We know that the deadline for implementing this directive expired in July. Austria already received a letter of formal notice from the Commission in September. It was therefore urgently necessary to implement this directive. That is why my thanks to the Minister of Justice and also to the Ministry of Justice for having managed to bring in this government proposal in good time. Thank you also to the House that we will actually vote this – hopefully also successfully – here. Some things we have already implemented in Austria, so only minor changes were necessary. For example, two new acts were written into the Criminal Code: first of the expenditure fraud at the disadvantage of the European Union's financial interests and second, the misuse of funds and assets to the detriment of financial interests. In addition, a definition of the Union official was introduced because it is of course important to have clear definitions and clear rules. We did not consider the amendment that we also discussed in committee to be necessary because, as a Community official, the Union official had been covered by the term of office in the criminal code so far and the additional mention and restriction would not have been necessary in our opinion. We feel that the original government template would have implemented the directive precisely and clearly and thus would not have been over-fulfilment of the European directive. Since the practical consequences of this amendment are to be neglected, we will of course also agree with the bill as amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18003	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18024	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I continue with Europe. As a glowing Tyrolean Austro-European, I am very pleased that this decision is being made today, because behind this bulky matter, which my previous speakers have already tried to explain, I am very pleased to say that something that must be done with satisfaction, one that is at the heart of Europe. What's this about? – The EU Directive of 2017 was adopted in Austria in spite of the end of the deadline for implementation on 6 June 2017. Not implemented on July. Among other things, this may have to do with the fact that a former vice-channer of legendary fame as a show ==References====External links== It is due to the care of our Minister of Justice, Mr Jabloner, that we are now spared a infringement procedure because he has taken the initiative in good time to bring this EU directive into national law. Matter itself is of criminal nature and perhaps now less interesting in detail. But what is very important, and that actually concerns us all: It is about protecting the Union's financial interests. It is a matter of providing the Union with a lot of money from its Member States so that Europe's future can be developed in the various areas, in the field of climate protection, in the area of infrastructure, and of which we are all concerned. This is not just about European money, it is also about Austrian money. It is not only about the interests of European taxpayers, we Austrians are equally European taxpayers and therefore have a vital interest in the fact that the funds we deposit into the Community's funds are also used in accordance with this principle. These funds are felt everywhere. From Tyrol, as the lighthouse project, I can hardly tell about the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is under construction with massive EU co-financing. But it goes down to smaller projects. There is the Waldpflegeverein Tirol. This is a very important institution, especially in times of climate protection, which in 2017 received EUR 1.7 million from the EU in order to carry out its tasks better and maintain the efficiency of the forest as a climate regulator. The University of Innsbruck receives EUR 5 million for quantum physics research in the EU. We therefore see, in very, very many areas, we benefit directly from the fact that the EU can manage common money, and this requires criminal protection, which is made more efficient by today's decision-making. I am very pleased, this is an important step. It is also a step towards the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I should like to remind you that, at the same time as the directive, the regulation with which the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been set up has been adopted. Of course, Austrian prosecutors also cooperate. This is an advance to a European FBI, a European law enforcement authority, the world's first supranational law enforcement authority. These are great and good developments, and if today's decision-making is to be done unanimously in the National Council, as is apparent from the speeches, this is a very good signal that we are continuing this European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18069	Next speaker: Mr Christian Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18091	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My precious seers! We are implementing a directive here – and this sounds very bulky – which aims to ensure the approximation of criminal law in the Member States in the field of the protection of the Union's financial interests in the form of fraudulent acts at the expense of the revenue or expenditure side of the assets of the EU budget. - So far, so good. What does that mean? – On the revenue side, we have already implemented this implementation in the Financial Criminal Law, mainly in the last reforms of the Criminal Code. Two provisions are adapted today, the provisions of §§ 168c and 168d, as mentioned above, once on the expenditure side of fraud and once misused resources and assets. The main feature of each case is that of the European Union's financial interests. This is the reason for closer attention to this financial interest. Looking at the budget recently decided by the Member States, it can be seen that a concrete disbursement amount of EUR 153.6 billion has been set for 2020. 80 percent of these funds are managed in the Member States, with Austria covering an amount of EUR 2 billion in 2018. This is a quite high amount, the occasion was that I considered how the impact-oriented impact assessment by the Ministry of Justice assessed this law decision. To do this, you can say: This assessment assumes that the case figures are likely to be small, which my previous speakers have already said. In fact, it is true that in the last five years § 153b of the StGB, promotion abuse, has only resulted in twice in convictions. If you know and heard the funding scene of our country, what was mentioned earlier, namely that 2.5 billion euros are in the room as a volume of fraud, then you can see that these are quite manageable sizes. This shows that, if you see the whole budget, there is certainly a favourable and legal use of funding not only in Austria, but obviously also across the EU. I hope that this will be the case in the case of the facts which have been introduced and that the provisions will not really apply. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18136	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18157	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, the Christbaum is quite clear on this issue, but I will allow myself to mention a few aspects, especially in detail on you, Mr Federal Minister. Mr Federal Minister, you mentioned at the outset that a certain degree of danger was in delay, so that this government proposal should be presented and implemented relatively quickly in the new legislative period. If the time limit is already at 6. It is a matter of course of public money and you have rightly presented it with the help of many of the government's proposals today. This government template is a clear message for me. It is the implementation of an EU directive, the so-called PIF Directive, which deals with the fight against fraud in the EU and the prevention of corruption and fraud. The Union budget, which for us means the safeguarding of finances, is essentially to be protected and secured. The Union budget is also the reason why the EU Directive lays down that criminal aspects should be aligned in the Member States in order to ensure legal peace and legal certainty. As far as this aspect of criminal law is concerned, Austria has already been very good, if I may say so. We have introduced § 153b StGB, and in fact the new criminal offences in § 168c and Litera d StGB are just about the addition to the previous criminal regulations. I also think that with this crime, The directive was fully in line with stocks addressing both fraud on the expenditure side and abuse. There is one aspect that has not been mentioned so far: I think these two crimes are also remorseable offences, and it could have involved active repentance as a legal instrument. At least it would have been in conformity with the directive. In general, I would like to note that the introduction and adaptation of the concept of the Union official of the Directive has also been taken into account. In conclusion: I believe that the rules of criminal proceedings have in principle been properly adapted and changed. We have extended and included competence to corruption and economic prosecutorship. Therefore, we take account of the specific nature of this Directive and will make the relevant legal changes. The proposal is therefore largely supported. With regard to active repentance, I might have expected more support. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18206	Next speaker: Mrs Ruth Becher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18227	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, combating fraud in the EU is a very important objective for good reason. The money in the European Union is scarce, and with a view to Brexit it is clear that: If this reality becomes a reality, then the second largest net payer will leave the EU and leave an annual financial gap of 12 to 14 billion euros. Therefore, there are also little surprising considerations about closing this gap; in the discussion there are higher contributions, new EU taxes, new duties. However this financial gap is closed, people must be able to rely on the proper management of the money and arrive where it belongs. So, of course, the SPÖ supports all anti-corruption measures, including the introduction of these two new criminal offences – they have already been implemented. The change in competence has a more formal character because it was already regulated in Austria in the relevant provisions. Nevertheless, Austria has had major shortcomings in its own field of action and, above all, since the last, the turquoise-blue government. For example, fraud with dividend distributions, better known as Cum-Ex-businesses – you remember, we discussed the Court of Auditors' report in January of this year – cost large amounts; it was between 50 and 100 million euros a year that taxpayers had to pay there. The persecution of these frauds has so far been suspended in Austria, no one has been shown. In Germany this is different, there are charges. This is where the taxpayers' money is dealt with very easily, which has been donated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18260	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 14 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the draft law to give an acceptable sign. – That is unanimous, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for an acceptable sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. [[19:28:16]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Prosecution of Leoben (Zl. 5 St 330/19i) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Wolfgang Zanger(17 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18318	So we get to the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this. I ask whether the report would like a final word. - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 17 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate Leoben, Zl. 5 St 330/19i, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Wolfgang Zangerwerd in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Wolfgang Zangerbe.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous, accepted. [[19:29:35]] 9. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Graz (Zl. 25 St 124/19x) for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Herbert Kickl(18 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18382	This leads us to the 9th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one has made any statement on this point. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. In doing so, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 18 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of Graz on 29 October 2016, the Court of Justice of the European Communities (Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Communities) referred to the Court of 25 St 124/19x, to consent to the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Herbert Kicklwegen of the suspicion of a criminal offence according to § 283 para. 1 and 2 StGB is in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the alleged criminal act and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Herbert Kicklbe; an official persecution of the MP to the National Council Herbert Kicklwird is not approved.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of joining this motion for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:31:14]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the working time law (42/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18451	This leads us to the 10th. Point of order of the day. We are going into the debate. Mr Josef Muchitsch, you are speaking, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18482	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! This request, submitted by the SPÖ, concerning a federal law amending the working time law, offers a great opportunity, namely the opportunity to discuss the working time law that ÖVP and FPÖ had followed at that time – without any consideration without consulting the Committee – recently. This proposal offers us the opportunity, on the one hand, to discuss the first experiences and initial findings openly and objectively, with the exclusion of the public in the Committee, on the other hand, it is also a huge opportunity to implement what some ÖVP and FPÖ politicians then promised to people, namely, a right to a four-day week. I don't want to confront you with these many quotations now, because time is a little too short, but we know you made false promises to people. I think it is a huge chance to discuss and evaluate this law on working time, also with the help of the Greens. We have a great opportunity to discuss the first findings that have been gained since then. In fact, there has been a four-day week of collective treaty negotiations and business agreements. I know that not all of ÖVP and FPÖ agreed to this working time law at the time. That is why we need to take advantage of this opportunity to discuss this in the coalition-free area. I invite you all to discuss this openly and objectively in the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. We have the opportunity here – as with other legislative instruments, such as the full account of working hours or the payment of voluntary assistance for the period of service – to provide a good solution in the interest of all employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18512	Next come Mr Christoph Zarits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18536	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muchich has already mentioned this: Many people, here we are, I think, agree, want to work flexibly today. With the flexibility of working hours, we have responded to the demands of the modern working world and have created new framework conditions. It is about making working time more flexible, namely in those sectors, where this is possible and also useful. The task of working time flexibility is to strengthen the location of Austria, to secure jobs, and, of course, to facilitate a four-day week. I have to say: This will not be possible in all sectors, not in all businesses. One can only do this through Col- make contracts and business agreements where it is useful and in practice appropriate. It is important that we have not intervened in existing CVs and operating agreements when it comes to working time flexibility, and I think that is the decisive thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned that the working world is changing, and we must naturally respond to the challenges of the future. People know that they can rely on us, the Austrian People's Party, as far as working time law is concerned. That's what you saw at the election in September. 800 000 workers have given us their voice, and they have given us their confidence. I believe that we must continue and continue our path of change in this area. We are very grateful for this great confidence. For the first time, we are the clear number one among the workers. This shows that in the past we have made a good employee policy. Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank my boss, our clubman August Wöginger, who has achieved a great deal for the workers in the last two years – I am just saying: Family bonus, a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, and of course this has been felt in the election result. – A warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now there is Mr Muchitsch's request, which we will certainly discuss in the Committee. It includes a right to the four-day week. I somehow do not understand this request, Mr colleague, because, as a social partners, you somehow undermine social partnership with this proposal. I have confidence in the social partners and in the works councils, which do great work for people in a wide variety of industries and industries. They negotiate the collective agreements and also the business agreements. There are the four-day week, as you have already mentioned, in many sectors: in trade, in the construction sector, in the forwarding sector, and I could list many other areas here. The collective agreements are the task of the social partners, the business agreements are the task of our works councils. The legislator has the possibility to create legal framework conditions. I believe that the Working Time Act or the Four-Day Week in the respective sector must be negotiated and adapted by the experts from the employee and employer side. This is the task of the social partners, and that is a good thing. That was good in the past and will be good in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18600	Next, Mr Rudolf Silvan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18624	Madam President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In 2018, colleague Köstinger meant that the 8-hour day as a legal normal working time would remain secure and unaffected, the four-day week would be permitted by law. – Let’s look at what really happened about 15 months after the entry into force of this new law on working time! ==References====External links== June 2018 organised the big demo in Vienna against the 12-hour day and against the 60-hour working week, Many entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and social partners from Lower Austria have contacted me and mean that they will only apply this scheme in the extreme case. I said: I believe you. I believe this until you do not receive the first order, because a competitor calculates with the 60-hour working week or with the 12-hour working day. And that's exactly what happened. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Farms from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia...
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18656	Ladies and gentlemen, I may interrupt you briefly: I think it's your first speech if I've seen it right. . I would therefore ask that we stick to the fact that the first speech does not involve intermediate calls. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It's not an intermediate call, it's a correction!]] This is all the more true of the first speech. Please, you are on the floor, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18689	Thank you, Madam President. I'm a construction-wood trader, I've already talked to many construction workers, I have no problem with that. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: They're calling in between!]] – They call more in between, and louder, much louder. Farms from neighbouring countries that offer in Austria all calculate with the 60-hour week. This has even confirmed to me officials from the Lower Austria Chamber of Commerce. What's going on? This means that our own small and medium-sized enterprises are under pressure and their employees are equally affected. In mid-August 2019, a survey result was published by Deloitte, the University of Graz and the University of Vienna, after which the 12-hour day became normal in 30 percent of Austrian companies. This may be a pleasure for some industrial representatives, for us from Social Democracy this is a step back to the 19th century. ==References== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the statistics of AUVA, you can see: They speak a clear language. In 2014, there were 97,722 accidents at work, 95 of which were fatal, 99,339 of which were accidents at work, 102 of which were fatal. The most important thing is that in the first half of 2019 the number of serious accidents at work from the 10. A significant increase in hour has been observed. That is to say, this is an indication that more and more people are working longer and more and more, and that the formula is obvious: the longer the working time, the more severe the accident at work. We can do that in the 21st century. By the end of the century, ladies and gentlemen, do not take it. The right and the possibility of including the four-day week in the Working Time Act are, in fact, long overdue and a small step. If we want to promote and preserve human health, we need to talk about a real reduction in working time and a modern law on working time in the digital age. For example, in Scandinavia, where some sectors of the 6-hour day or the four-day week were introduced, the same is true. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to a close. People work to live, not vice versa. Let's take this into account! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18733	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18759	To my previous speaker, even if it was his first speech: It was a little confusing now, what you've given of yourself. The new law on working time was very much combated by parts of the union. You've seen it now, it's calmed down pretty much. One should now evaluate in all peace, to what extent this has really developed, in which direction it has gone. But now you stand here and explain that all of this is awfully terrible, and that in the case of a request from Mr Muchitsch, who really wants the right to the four-day week, which is actually only possible with the new working time law, because with 8 hours of working time per day you will not create the four-day week. It just doesn't matter. It just doesn't work out. I think the idea of the four-day week was also one of the backgrounds. We wanted to accommodate this in the Working Time Act at the time. I think this is a good and important and right approach. On the other hand, however, it must also be said that there was a lot of panic at the time. You mentioned it yourself, there was once a trade union demonstration, which was rather well, it did stop, but then you heard nothing more, because it was just not as dramatic as it was presented, but quite the contrary: This law reflects the reality of working life that has developed in the meantime. We know, of course, that flexible working hours are not just something workers want, but above all something employers want. That is, the criticism that it may be bad for some industries, we have taken very seriously. You have to look at this in an evaluation of how it has developed. But in principle, I think, the new law on working time has certainly provided flexibility. It has also made sure that the site has solidified. I think all the horror scenarios that have been painted on the wall have ultimately not occurred. – Thank God, otherwise we would have had to change something right away. The right to the four-day week is certainly something that makes sense, which also makes sense. We will certainly be able to debate this in all the rest of the Committee. I think at the end of the day, everyone will realize that working time flexibility is not to be equated with an extension of working time, but – quite the contrary – with the strengthening of the labour market and also with strengthening the location. In that respect, I am pleased that this request is also very good, because what was originally planned as a further step with the flexibility of working time, namely the right to the four-day week, is certainly something that goes in the right direction in the sense of our employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18796	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18818	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The right to a four-day week was almost considered to be compensation for the 12-hour day and the 60-hour week by Mr Muchitsch in the context of the application. I think this is also superior, only because it could limit the 60-hour week. That makes sense and is also very welcome. If, on the other hand, Mr Silvan says that the four-day week is an essential step towards reducing working time and is enjoying increasing popularity, then of course that is also true. If you read the media reports on businesses that have introduced the four-day week – in Austria, for example, in East Tyrol or in other European countries, in New Zealand, I think, there have also been examples – then these four-day weeks have always been accompanied by a reduction in working time. Unfortunately, I do not find that in the proposal at all. I find the right to a four-day week with a normal working time of up to 10 hours a day, which is not really a reduction in working time. This is even a relatively long daily working time, and that in a country that is at the forefront of Europe when it comes to the length of weekly working hours for full-time workers. At the same time, long working days also have the big problem that they do not really allow a compatibility of work and family or recreation. Working time models such as this four-day week with a maximum of 10 hours are easy models for full-time workers, and these are mainly men. [[Abg. Schellhorn: It must be seen that women are also full-time employed!]] These models are supposed to be particularly attractive for counterparts as well. The question for me is how long has it been for me if the donor or the donor – i.e. probably – is traveling 12 to 13 hours a day, and his children, if he has any, may only see on the weekend or know about photos. That's where I'm at the last point: Childcare is not known for the weekend. Childcare takes place every day. What happens when full-time men, full-time workers actually have the four-day week with 10 hours a day? – Then the childcare will have to be done by someone else. That'll probably be the woman. It will continue to work part-time, with all the consequences for income, social security and pension. That is, if we are discussing a four-day week – I am looking forward to this and I am looking forward to the discussion on the Committee, because I think it is urgently necessary – then we also need to discuss this in relation to the reduction of working time, namely in the direction of a 35-, 36-hour week. [[Abg. - You're welcome!]] This is also in line with the wishes of workers, who have already conducted a lot of surveys, and there would be a fairer distribution of employment and housework. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] I know, of course, that we in this House currently have far and wide no political majority for a reduction in working time – no, we know that. In fact, when it comes to work-life balance, a better reconciliation of work and family life and the better compatibility of working life, leisure and recreation and health, no way passes through it. Whether we have a majority, yes or no, workers would have long deserved a reduction in working time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18874	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18895	Madam President. High house! Peter Haubner is pleased to draw up the working time proposals for the new government with colleagues Koza. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Of course you can also see: Those who have the greens really don't need reds anymore, because there's everything covered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Yes, Mr Muchich's SPÖ proposal provides for an individual right to a four-day week. Against this individual right, the employer can only defend himself in a laborious procedure and ultimately with a judicial dispute. If he does not do what may be because he agrees, then this employee can go back to the five-day week individually after six months. In contrast, the employer can no longer defend himself. This form of unilateral change in the classification of working time does not correspond to a partnership relationship. I'd look at that. The trade union would rightly be excited if anyone provided for unilateral changes in working time by the employer, who could say at once: And now you're only working four days, ending the announcement! – You wouldn’t want to, but vice versa, you’re proposing it now. That's not balanced. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are many farms today – that has been said – that practice the four-day week. They have agreed to enter into business agreements, set themselves up on a partnership basis and negotiated solutions with the Works Council. In any case, we support such operational solutions, and that is already possible, for that it does not need a new law now. If it doesn't need a new law, you shouldn't decide. Good are always solutions that come about when people talk to each other. – I can hardly imagine that SPÖ has something against the employees and employers talking to each other.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18964	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. I will assign the proposal 42/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[19:51:11]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Ruth Becher, colleagues in a federal law with which the broker law 1996 was last amended by the BGBl. I No. 107/2017, amended (51/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19004	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate in a moment. Mrs Becher, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19031	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever is looking for an apartment in Austria is not to envy. The situation on the private housing market in Austria is known: The prices are out of control, the housing seekers have the disadvantage, the speculators indicate the tone. For the past year, the real estate price mirror of the Chamber of Commerce shows an increase of 4.2 percent, with young families almost hardly having a chance. It is similar in the rental area, because the prices are also very strong on the rise. There has been an increase of 10 percent in Vienna's external districts last year. The problems, however, go over all Austria and are no longer only to be found in the federal capital. Vorarlberg has already overtaken the capital at the prices. There are solutions. The SPÖ has proposed improvements with a universal rental right, which would enable ecological, flexible rental pricing. This was rejected by almost all other parties, especially the ÖVP. However, the market does not regulate everything, the landlords continue to rely on rising prices. More and more temporary apartments are also offered and rented. ÖVP and FPÖ have made hundreds of thousands of Austrians homeless in their own country. Benefits of these many movements are not only the owners, but also the brokers. Two monthly rents will have to pay future tenants for an apartment, and the landlords will mostly pay the costs, the fees, to those looking for housing. Therefore, the SPÖ calls for a change to the internationally usual system of the ordering principle. If someone is looking for an apartment and has a rent of 1 000 euros including operating costs and taxes, this is 2 200 euros broker commission for a five-year term. As the former chairman of the tenants' association, I would like to advise by means of a representation of interests. The fees are to be paid by the customer; and around 2 200 euros paid for broker fees, one can currently be a member of a representative for 33 years, including personal advice and representation in case of problems with operating costs. In the meantime, I believe all the parties here in the House are in favour of the ordering principle. It is no time to lose, we arrange this in the Building Committee: The broker fees are to become a matter between the client and contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19076	Next come Mr Johann Singer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19101	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery or in front of the screens! The current SPÖ proposal is almost identical to the provisions in Germany and it is therefore worth looking at them more closely. Of course, it is allowed to borrow from other countries, and of course this also applies to the subject of housing – only the right of residence in Germany is another, the real estate right in Germany is another, as at all the entire German housing market is not comparable to that in Austria. The so-called Orderer Principle was introduced in Germany in 2015. It can therefore already be assessed with the appropriate experience that has been collected. What we see, for example, is that many rentals are no longer offered on the various real estate platforms, because landlords are avoiding other channels. So an offer is artificially cut and that in turn increases prices as a whole. So it happens exactly what we don't want. Not all that sounds good is also, and every now and then the conversation with directly concerned helps, because then you will of course also experience worth knowing. The party president of the SPÖ has reflected the work of the brokers in the social media in this way: "Most tenants are looking for their own apartments about the in- ternet. The brokers do not do much more for them than lock up the apartment during the visit.” – This is a quote from Pamela Rendi-Wagner. The representatives of the Social Democratic Association then tried to explain to her that the real estate inserate does not automatically place itself on the homepages and that, as a broker in Austria, you also need a commercial license. Ladies and gentlemen, you can believe that you have to be able to do a lot more than just know how to lock the doors of the apartment. Now back to this request: We share the intention, but we have to deal with it much more carefully than you do with the request. Why? – Because we don’t want an inconspicuous market because we don’t want it to come back to being a redeemer, and because we don’t want those looking for housing to be confronted with mass visits – just to address some negative effects of the German model, as taught by the German experts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going an Austrian way, only to meet the needs of our people! We will also strive to do so in a new government constellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19146	Next, Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19167	Madam President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! First: I am very pleased to be able to give my first speech as a member of the National Council on a particularly important subject to me. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the age of 28, I still count on the young generation and therefore know what the challenges for young people still in education are, study, perhaps have a young family, or have only recently entered work and thus have a low income. Many, however, want to live up to the desire to stand on their own feet. But this is only possible if living is actually manageable – for living is a basic need for all people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The SPÖ has always been a central concern for the quiet living, and it is also important to me as a young Member that this issue is finally a little further. In my home country, Burgenland, for example, we have a partner in non-profit housing with the OSG, with which we offer start apartments for 5 euros per square meter and with a small deposit for young people. These are the demonstration projects that young people want. But what else can be done? – An essential step would be if broker fees were to be paid not as before by the tenant, but by the client, that is, usually by the landlord; a principle which, as we have just heard, is already going and going on in Germany and other countries. [[Conjugation with SPÖ and bravoruf des Abg. Light peace.]] In short: The one who orders the broker takes over the broker's fees, and that's not the boys. I really enjoyed the election campaign when I heard that all parties actually voted in favour of this solution. It was all the more disappointing. then, when this turned out to be a purely electoral campaign of the short-term ÖVP. It was apparently just a sugar of choice. But what has become of this electoral sugar? . Together with the FPÖ, the ÖVP prevented the arrival of a meeting of the Building Committee before the National Council elections, rejected a deadline application, and thus made it impossible to amend the Realtor's Act quickly. The sweet ÖVP sugar became an acid lemon in which the tenants still have to bite. The fact is, they still have to pay two monthly rents as a broker's fee. I do not think it is fair for young people to be pre-accelerated, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These two monthly rental broker fees – we talk from 1,500 to 2,000 euros; and I repeat – are a lot of money for boys, single parents, young families, but also pensioners. For us as SPÖ, therefore, it is a command of the hour to support these people as much as possible. I also expect the support of the Greens and hope that, if you are in government responsibility, you will remember your positions that you represented in the election campaign. Finally, I would like to emphasize very clearly: We're not about brokerbashing or the abolition of brokers. No, we are concerned that the person who takes advantage of the achievements of a broker – in the normal case the landlord – will also bear the costs. This is basically nothing but the logical consequence, because if I go to the hairdresser and let my hair cut, of course I also pay for the service. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to forget what you voted for a few weeks ago before the National Council elections, and to introduce the ordering principle together at broker fees!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19244	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Philipp Schrangl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19268	Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on your first speech. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Free to Oscar Wilde: “The truth is rarely pure and never easy.” – Mr. colleague, with your presentation You did exactly what you blame others. They meant that we would scatter sand into people's eyes and tell young people something wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, you are here afterwards. I already know your voice, but calm down. You're on it afterwards, now I'm talking. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] - Yeah, yeah, bla, bla, bla. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] They say we're pulling money out of the bag for young people. Unfortunately, this is once again typical SPÖ, because you live once again in the past. Unfortunately, with this proposal, which you have already made for a number of times here, you do not make a single apartment cheaper or cheaper to rent, because the truth is, my dear consumers, the SPÖ's request is that you have to mess with the application folders for rental apartments and probably the cheapest rental apartments are no longer on the market at all, because that is exactly what happens in Germany by this legal regulation, written down by SPÖ. What makes living really cheaper and manageable is a free rental right. We suggest, for example, that not punishment, but an incentive system for longer or longer periods of time. unlimited rent; the rental height does not depend on the date of construction, on the year of construction, but depends on the condition, on the equipment; no surcharges for today's natural equipment such as a turklingel or a telephone connection. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you really – the ÖVP is unfortunately turned on this issue in the election campaign and has been driven by populism, although it has always said something opposite before; I know that not everyone is happy with it, but it is just like that – preparing such a law and when we decide to do such a law, it is very important that everyone can choose his representative for themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] In other words, we must also take a turn from the double broker principle. We must ensure that brokers can only work on behalf of entrepreneurs. And, as honest as you say, if the ÖVP says that it is for the best of ownership, then you also have to think about whether you do not abolish the double representation principle, the double broker principle even when it comes to ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19331	Mrs Mag.a Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19378	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! [[Calls and appeals between Deputies Schrangl and Matznetter.]] Mr. Schrangl – now the music is playing here! – in economic life there is a rather law: [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the Greens]] If you order a service, you also have to pay. If I order the gardener to cut my hedge, then the neighbor also has something of it because he looks for a cut hedge, but I have to pay the gardener because I ordered him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: But who gives you the gardener?]] If as an entrepreneur I need a legal opinion from a lawyer, I have to pay her instead of the customer I'm doing a legal business with afterwards. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: If it were so easy, it would be easy!]] And if you come to a guest house with your colleague and order a local round there, you'd also like to thank him if he says: Now go, Philipp, but now you pay the bill! - That's exactly what you're defending. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Whoever buys, has to pay. – This must be true in Austria, for everyone. That is why we do not want any special arrangements for any professional sector, which is why the customer principle needs to come up with – better yesterday than tomorrow. Dear FPÖ, what also surprises me, is that on every occasion you strive for the free market, but the current regulation is protectionism in pure culture. Maklerei is a good business; it is a good business not because it offers so great performances, but because the real estate market is overheated – so you have to be honest. At the end of the day all apartments are rented, most apartments are purchased. And rising price means high broker commission, but not only that, but the big demand means less work for the broker – and so we can be honest – tend to be. That the tenant has to pay for a service that the owner or seller wishes to do was never right and fair. But in times like these, where housing demand in the cities, in the boom regions is so large, this is just medieval and measured and belongs immediately abolished. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It'll surprise you, but it's also a chance. We Greens somehow also rely on the free market, because if the seller or the owner pays for the service, then there will be a better quality on the market. This promotes competition, because if the owner or landlord can choose the broker, he will make sure that he gets a good price-performance ratio, and that will separate the broker's army into the good and the bad. The unsavory lucky riders, who are just after the fast euro, will disappear from the market by train. It is clear that all of you have certainly also received this letter from brokers representatives who see that the skins swim away from them. I can therefore tell you – and you, as a broker, too – that: Don't be afraid! There are also brokers in countries where there are no protectionist laws. However, it is fairer there, of higher quality and there are fewer black sheep. They all have to prefer this, even the good brokers, because they get a lot more orders, because it's just that on the free market: If I deliver a good performance, I get a lot of orders. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19458	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Felix Eypeltauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19482	Mr President. High house! Dear listeners! It is not as easy as it is sometimes presented in the debate, and I now want to start trying to go a little into detail and explain why it is not that easy. I would like to suggest that we NEOS are always and very much willing to talk about measures that aim to relieve the housing market and thus relieve people. However, such measures, even if they are often very well meant, can go very far in the back. We have seen this – and this has already been said by colleagues in their speeches – in Germany; this is a real danger. Look On the one hand, you look at the well-intentioned rental lid in Berlin, which has disastrous consequences for the market and for the offer there, on the other hand, at the German ordering principle for real estate brokers, which had exactly the opposite effects on the planned claims and goals! That is why we want to examine this request – it is a first reading – carefully and take a closer look – we are also looking forward to the debate in the Committee – for the first time, because, by this concrete regulation, as it proposes the SPÖ here, it is to be feared that the market will become more transparent, that more and more landlords will think about not giving their home through a broker, but perhaps privately, by hand, in the circle of acquaintances, looking for a tenant. But we need the exact opposite of the Austrian rental market, we need more transparency and we need more offer for housing seekers. – This is the first problematic point. However, we want to take a closer look at this also because we can observe in Germany how, after the introduction of a very similar rule, the replacements for apartments are accelerated to the height. You will find ads in which it amounts to 8,000 euros of redundancies for a normal furnished apartment. Nor can we want in Austria tenants to pay less for the broker, but for this the three, four or five times for the redundancies. - That's the second point. The third point: We need to take a closer look at this because the SPÖ here – and that is very important to me – does not apply for an orderer principle at all. You have to read what's being requested. It does not, however, apply for a first-ordering principle, as it calls it, but it is in reality requesting a Der-renter-pays-ever-principle, and that is not fair. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] It should be – here we agree, and so simple it is not always – pay the one who has received a performance and commissioned it. I'm just going to give you an example so it's really clear what it's all about: The pensioner Mrs. Meier gives a broker her home for rent. The manager, Dr. Huber from Linz, moves with her husband and children to Vienna because she has found a job there, and instructs the broker to find an apartment that meets the needs of her family. The broker does work – that may not have been done here yet, but real estate agents do a job for potential tenants – looking at which objects there are, looking out the right ones, making visits and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] So: If Mrs. Meier, this manager, rents her apartment, then the new tenant pays nothing for the broker's services and the landlord pays everything because – and that's the Krux, it hasn't been talked about – the SPÖ's request says: [[Abg. Lightenness: This is such an example of real life!]] ‘Knowledge’. The broker must have knowledge of a mediation opportunity, and at the moment the landlord pays, whether the broker has provided a service for her or not. – That’s the Krux, and that’s why you can’t determine that and you have to think carefully about how to determine it. Finally, I am still responding to the criminal regulations. 25 000 euros of criminal law in the broker's law: That's unsystematically high, and that just doesn't fit in. In this sense I close and can say NEOS for us: We want fairness – yes. The person who orders a service and carries it is also to pay for it. This is a matter of fairness, but we really need to look carefully and carefully at the Committee, whether and how broker contracts are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19531	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Philipp Schrangl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19584	Mrs Tomaselli, you do not really want to tell a consumer here from the speaker's desk that a broker who is not paid by him represents the consumer perfectly in front of the landlord! I have not called for the current system to be maintained, but what I have requested is – not the SPÖ’s request, because what is really behind it – Mr Eypeltauer has rolled out grandios – that if, then, everyone can choose his representative himself, because then, Mrs Colleague, it is really so that one chooses one’s representative, one’s own performance and one’s being perfectly cared for, if he is good. Thank you very much. And, Mr Matznetter, as you are always yelling in like this: Come out to the pult! Explain You can tell people whether a consumer gets an excellent performance if he doesn't pay for it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19628	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign Amendment No 51/A, which sets out the case of the election of a Committee on Buildings and Livings. [[20:15:49]] 12. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) (53/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19665	We're coming to 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant is now entitled to speak. Jörg Leichtfried. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19695	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If the past few years have shown anything, then it was certainly that Parliaments do not act the same way everywhere and that the Austrian National Council was truly not a self-confidence, strong Parliament, which was also able by a majority and with determination to offer Paroli to this government when things were going that were not right. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it must be our common objective, regardless of whether we have the perspective of opposition or the perspective of government, to do everything we can to prove this Parliament worthy of the principle of parliamentary democracy. This includes a Parliament which is self-confident and strong, including a Parliament which can be heard in its actions by the citizens who are public. And I think we have a lot to do to provide this public in our Parliament, in the National Council, in the committees. There's a debate that's been swerving for a long time – I mean, one should finally get in the way and put things into practice – and this debate comes up in the question: How public is our Parliament to be? How public are the things we do? I was recently in Brussels for this National Council together with a colleague from the EIA in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I have to say they're a lot more. In the Foreign Policy Committee there were spectators. It's been transferred live, it's being streamed on the web. These things, which we always consider impossible, are of course there. I think the time is ripe, ladies and gentlemen. The time is ripe for people not only to see what is happening here in plenary, but also to see, what is happening in the committees, because sometimes things happen, where you might be glad that you don't see them, and that's not really all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] It is really not all right, and that is why we are calling for the committees to be made public in the future. It's really time to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Eßl.]] There are still many points that I would like to report to you, but I believe that if we are already talking about the public, it will be time for the public's light to be much more intensive in the committee of inquiry – and now we are going to set up a committee of inquiry again. Of course, there are security interests that are too true, of course there are personality interests that can be true, but I do not believe that political actors who are known need to try to hide behind the anonymity, the non-publicity of the committee of inquiry when it comes to accepting their political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen – and we will soon experience that political responsibility is acknowledged. That's why I'm asking you to: Let us take this discussion seriously about the public of our house, because it will lead to a discussion of the value of our house! I believe we are all in favour of this Parliament being a strong body of Austrian democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19761	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Michael Hammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19786	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Leichtfried, it is indeed the case that we need a current rules of procedure for the National Council. There are several things, not only those that stand inside your request and have now been presented. I think that should be discussed comprehensively, and there are two-thirds of them as well. I think we should deal intensively with this, and we will. But I already have to contradict you is: I do not think that is a question of the self-understanding of a strong Parliament, of how public committee meetings are. We, as representatives of the Austrian People's Party, see ourselves as a strong, active Parliament, not only stating whether a committee meeting is being held live, but how we contribute to the content with which we work. We feel that our work is very self-confident and very essential, and it embodies a strong Parliament. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] It is true that we can also bring some things from committees to a certain public, which happens anyway, because OTS news, APA messages et cetera, is constantly going out of all committee meetings. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] What should not be, however, is – and we have looked at this in some parliaments – that what is taking place in plenary, for example – a public debate through which citizens can also perceive the various arguments – is being carried more closely into the committee, as the Committee is also concerned with an objective discussion, a decision-making process, which often takes place – and that is what Parliaments who have it say – It is difficult to transfer all of this publicly. So you also have to distinguish between what is public and what is not public. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a lot to modernise, adapt in the Rules of Procedure, and we would like to see this discussion in principle.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19837	Mrs Sigrid Maurer spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Visitors on the gallery – there are still some – and in front of the TV screens or via live stream! We have here the request to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, and these points which are put forward in this proposal are all welcome; the live streaming of public committee meetings et cetera, which is basically quite good, it is holding the minimum consensus. In principle, we have a Rules of Procedure, which is in fact understandable only if it is read with the comment where much could be revised. That's where we're in discussion. However, as far as Parliament itself and the opening up of Parliament and the involvement and transparency of citizens is concerned, one could of course be even more courageous than it is here. This concerns, for example, the possibility of making the committees public. The committees are running as we all know that we are sitting in here, often in such a way that there is not much commitment to individual speeches, often prepared statements are only read more, delays are quite creatively argued. I believe that the debate culture in the committees, because they were public, could in principle already rise somewhat. Now opponents of this proposal say to the possible public of all committees that this would only promote the show and the struggle et cetera between the political groups. At the same time, it must be said that even now, in the non-public committees, the debates are not going to take place in such a way that there are usually constructive discussions that solutions are spontaneously being developed there, so that is not the case now. As an incentive for this legislative period: Perhaps we will also be developing in this area. This also applies to other points, such as the services we have here in the house. We have the budget service. This is very good, but it certainly needs even more equipment in order to achieve the full benefits for Members. Legal and legislative services could also be redesigned and better equipped. I think it would be a good thing for us to upgrade parliamentarianism as a whole. In this sense: These points are to be welcomed. You must, of course, be discussed in a large package of Rules of Procedure, and not only here as individual measures. But perhaps in this legislative period, we will manage to open up a little as a whole Parliament and take a step into the 21st century. ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19901	Mr Yannick Shetty is now on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! You know, I was a member of the District Office until October this year. ==References== There was a theme complex, which has always caused a lot of unrest and a lot of excitement, and that has always been when it came to more public opinion, more transparency, more participation, more participation for citizens. The representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP were always particularly nervous. I would like to give you a very specific example: In 2015, in the year of our Angelobung, we immediately submitted a request that all meetings of the district offices – which are actually not a secret – should be held live. Thus, all interested citizens would have the opportunity, wherever they are, to engage in local issues and to see what is being discussed in the District Policy. You know what was exciting? – All parties have agreed. It was a unanimous decision! We already knew why this was unanimous, because at the time no one expected that this would really be implemented, because the relevant Magistrates department still blocked a little bit at that time. But then it has become exciting. Three years later, the city of Vienna, i.e. the Magistrate, said: Dear 8. Bezirk, you have a unanimous decision for the live stream of district representation meetings, we would now be ready to implement! How do you look? And then it started. The blocking parties have then done what they can best. They argued: This is not possible if you transfer the meetings via live stream, because the district councils have no immunity! We can no longer say what we think! the others have said: Now we have been sitting in this seat for the last 30, 40 years, and we need to change the seat arrangement! – And so what we have actually decided unanimously has never been implemented, because different claims have been made. After four years in this body, it was actually one of the biggest drops of advertising – that this theme of the live stream of the district representation meetings was never really successfully implemented. I will then come to what this has to do with what we are discussing here today. At that time, the other parties granted us one: We wanted the live stream of the district representation meetings and the other parties gave us the online availability of applications and requests on the website – a small success, but nothing compared to what we originally wanted. That reminds me a little of the dimensions we're talking about today. You know the proposals from us NEOS: Ministerial hearings in the National Council, mandatory review procedures for all legislative initiatives, improvement for citizens' initiatives and, of course, public – and also with live stream – in all committee meetings and not only in the few committee meetings that are already public. – Please don’t misunderstand! We will vote in favour of the request if it comes to the vote. But quite honestly: That's not the big throw. So give yourself, just addressed to the SPÖ, a bit of a back and trust yourself a little more transparency! Our proposals are on the table.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19968	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 53/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[20:28:54]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues on a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 (83/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20010	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20040	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen, watching from home! The OECD warns against the weak global economy and insists, with great emphasis, to act now. The years 2019 to 2021 are expected to bring the weakest growth since the global financial crisis ten years ago. In 2020, the Wifo expects GDP growth of 1.4 percent. This low value should last until 2024. These are the framework conditions that come upon us. The reasons are known: The prospects for world trade are unstable. US trade conflicts with China and the EU as well as Brexit have a negative impact on trade and thus on the export country of Austria. According to Wifo, if we do not do anything, unemployment will affect almost 400 000 people in Austria. These are fates, hard fates for the affected men, women and their children, who suddenly lack the money for their lives, for rents, for food, for clothing, but also for the necessary support for the development of their children. This removed contributions from the public budget. This becomes a problem, as it is financed by two-thirds by workers. Missing customers and professionals for the Austrian companies are another challenge we have to expect. In order to counter this flea of economic activity, a social, democratic and social partnership policy is needed, as proposed by the SPÖ, with the following steps : [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We call on the government, together with the social partners, to present an economic package in the first quarter of 2020. It is necessary to address this crisis proactively by making the first EUR 1 700 gross monthly salary pay-free as early as 2020. This means a plus of EUR 1 100 in the wallets of Austrian workers. This measure will also benefit entrepreneurs in Austria, not only by increasing consumption, because the actual wage increase will increase satisfaction and motivation; many jobs are becoming more attractive in low-paid areas. This is also economic and not only economically relevant. Another measure is to prefer the planned social security bonus to 2020 and to create tax incentives for companies from a social partnership perspective to motivate them to invest through a temporary early depreciation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The overdue closure of the Genderpaygap is also an economic activity that should be dealt with. Finally equal pay for equal work! We still have 15.6 percent difference in full-time jobs in Austria Working conditions. This is finally abolished because it is closer to the Middle Ages than modern times. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is neither understandable nor justified. This concerns the right of women to equal treatment and a plus to family income. These are all good ways to promote the economy through distribution justice and to deal with the crisis socially and jointly. I ask you for your support in the sense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20109	The next speaker is Mr Andreas Minnich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20134	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, a warm greeting to God to all visitors to the gallery and all those who follow the session remotely and from home! Today I am allowed to comment on Amendment No 83/A concerning income tax law. For me, this is a special meeting, since I have the honour to be able to give my first speech here in the House today. Before I come to the content, on this occasion I would like to say a few words of thanks: Thank you to all the supporters and helpers of the last few years, especially the last months, and of course to my family. It is a great pleasure for me to be able to represent my region, the beautiful wine district, here and to join the team of the new People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A warm thanks to all our colleagues, both in their own group and beyond party borders, for the warm welcome here in Parliament. But now to the content: In a country such as Austria, which is at the top of Europe's tax rate, the issue of discharge is essential. For this reason, our clubman Sebastian Kurzuch has already committed himself to this issue as the head of government during the last legislative period, with very concrete measures. With measures such as the reduction of lower incomes by reducing social security contributions and the family bonus, we have shown how discharge for service providers and for families works targeted and effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the course of these measures and with the first part of the tax reform, we have started the way of discharge, and we want to continue with it. When I talk about the discharge of the service providers, I don't mean the top earners. It is also clear, however, that in implementing your request, costs of EUR 6.5 billion will come to us – another measure on the back of our middle class, which will continue to be put under pressure. Especially when we talk about income tax, the consideration of all affected groups is necessary. The path of the new People's Party is very clear and leads towards 40 percent tax rate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I have to call into question the above mentioned safety of meeting. Unfortunately, there is no far-sightedness and there is no point-specific measure. By the way, the question also arises for me: Then who is to pay taxes at all? – A solidarity community is only successful if everyone makes its contribution. We are quite clear about this solidarity, we stand by it. Whoever pays is also to be supported. Performance must pay off. It cannot be our access that fewer and fewer people are schooling the entire load. We will continue our course of reason and the effective measures for real relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20197	The next speaker is Mr MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20221	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! If one reads the statement of reasons for this SPÖ request, it turns out that it is talking about a tax reform for small and medium-sized incomes in high-end evenings. However, what the SPÖ has requested is not a tax reform, but a single measure with regard to the income tax rate. The increase in the first level of tariffs is intended to exempt up to EUR 1 700 gross per month from wage and income tax from 2020. By the way, wage and income tax with doubles is written, Mr Krainer, so a S would be enough. However, the SPÖ does not seem to have heard the innovations in recent times, for – as my previous speaker has already mentioned – there has been the family bonus since 1.1.2019. The ÖVP FPÖ government has long implemented what SPÖ calls for for 2020. Since 1.1.2019 you pay no wage tax on a monthly gross of almost EUR 1 900 with a child. If the ÖVP FPÖ government had been able to implement all tax plans, it would have been possible for employers to pay up to EUR 3 000 per employee each year in the form of employee profit participation as of 2022. Workers could thus have participated in the profit of the company tax-free and social security. We would have the possibility of a tax-free and social security-free 15. In the case of employees' salaries, they have been created. In addition to the measures just mentioned, a large number of other relief measures would have been planned, not only for entrepreneurs but in particular for workers. Read more in the Council of Ministers lecture of 1.5.2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20255	Mrs Mag.a Nina Tomaselli. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20279	Mr President. – Mr Haubner immediately drops everything when I get out of here. [[==References====External links== Haubner leaned crutches fall over.]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, I say: You want to create more employment with your application. They want to deal with unemployment. They want to achieve economic growth. The whole should ensure more justice and more satisfaction. Everything is to be achieved by reducing a single tariff level. And the whole thing, according to your own statements, will cost 5 billion euros. Is that correct? If that is the case, I have to tell you, unfortunately, your tax reform will get the predicate unintelligible from us, because any tax reduction that does not entail re-taxation and does not address the structural weaknesses in the system is the next wrong chance. I am 34 years old and already have a number of centenary tax reforms and The best tax reforms of all time have been experienced; all of them have been far-reaching opportunities, and that is now enough. We had enough misplaced opportunities in the past, now we have to take advantage of a new opportunity. Austria – and I am not going with the ÖVP d’accord – has no tax problem, Austria has a tax structure problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The burden on labour income is so high, the taxes on wealth are ridiculously low. In addition, however, we also have a huge tax-structure problem in the field of eco-tax in times when the climate crisis hits us so correctly for the first time. We have a tax system which, on the one hand, does not relieve environmentally friendly behaviour and, on the other hand, in part promotes environmentally harmful behaviour. This is crazy, and we do not need a simple reduction in a single income tax rate that costs EUR 5 billion, but we need an eco-social transformation in the system. This is tax policy in the 21st century. 19th century! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, an eco-social reorganisation is a very important part of the fact that we are particularly relieved of low incomes. Whether the instrument, the first EUR 1 700 tax-free, is the best instrument, I dare to doubt, because those who do not pay any taxes at all do not relieve you with this system at all; and they would actually have it all the more necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! We're on the verge of a climate collapse. We simply can't afford to get 5 billion euros out of here. Time is up for red shots. We need an environmental-social tax reform that we actively shape. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we do this well, we create tens of thousands of green jobs, then we can protect our habitat and limit climate cross-borders. If we fail, life will become more viable for all of us. For example, the buildings are modern, they are renovated. The people and the green spaces get more space. Transport and therefore noise and dust become less, and public transport is getting better and cheaper. That's our vision. We should use this opportunity in the sense of the Austrians. We don't need any more quick shots. We also do not need a casting pot, but radical realism. This is the political elixir this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20367	The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20392	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of this proposal? The SPÖ proposes three things here. The first point is – and that has already been mentioned – to completely tax-free 1 700 euros gross. The second point is that the introduction of the social security bonus for the smaller incomes from 2021 to 2020 is being pre-imposed. The third point the SPÖ also calls for here is that, with income exceeding EUR 1 million, the current deadline for the peak tax rate of 55 percent is lifted, so to speak, extending the deadline and continuing indefinitely. Of course, you can discuss everything. In the first reading, there is not a lot of time for it now, but here, in the near future, our first criticism, our first points on this request: Laws are always about the effect. That is why we also need to look at the undesirable effects that such laws may have. Then I come to the EUR 1 700 tax-free. What's positive? – Positive, and this has also been addressed by colleagues from SPÖ, is the consumer effect. This can be done, of course, but if that were really so important, you could have done it for ten years by simply abolishing the cold progression. You all know that, you've all demanded it, but you've never kept it up to now. In general, it's like: When we look at the whole issue, we also believe that tax reform is needed, namely an eco-social tax reform. We have also presented and presented these several times in the election campaign. We are also talking about one point, namely that the labour factor belongs to a massive relief. If we look at the wage tax in this context, we also know that there are already 2.5 million people in Austria who are tax-free; that is, they do not pay a wage tax at all. This is a good third of the potential taxpayers. On the other hand, in Austria, there are 25 percent of employees who pay more than three quarters of the wage tax, 77 percent. This too must be taken into account when demanding such things. Now on the really negative effects of this law – we have already discussed this in committee; I honestly do not understand why the SPÖ does not take this point –: This is a negative incentive to work, which you create with these activities – this also applies to the social security bonus – which means that part-time work is simply made more attractive. Let me just give you an example: For example, if a woman now works part-time, works 50 percent, and, assumingly, earns 1,000 euros gross, that means 848 euros net at the moment, which are paid out. If this woman now decides to increase to 100 percent, that is to say 2 000 euros gross, then the net result is 1 482 euros, that is, the second 50 percent is worth 215 euros less than the first 50 percent. Why is that so? – Because the social security contributions are about to be paid and the tax is to start to be taxed. This is not good from our point of view, because with it you have a lot of people – and we know that these are women in particular – in part-time, and therefore very often – and unfortunately this is also the case – lead to old age poverty. Short to the third point, at the peak tax rate of 55 percent: If you look at this from the budget side, these deposits are negligible. But it does have an undesirable side effect: We all know that success stands and falls with people; when it comes to making creative, well-trained innovators decide where they want to work – and we all know that they can decide and it doesn't matter where they go, whether they're staying in Austria or moving to Silicon Valley – then of course, it has a very big influence, which top tax rate they pay. Yes, it is not budget-relevant and therefore quite a sign if you let this 55 percent continue. It's a location factor, it's an economic factor. Of course, we can discuss details in committee. This is a first reading, that is, there is still time to sharpen. – So briefly so much for the first time on this request. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20447	Mr Maximilian Lercher came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I start on the topic: Mr Tomaselli, I would like to take a brief look at your comments. I admit, you have made a point there or there, but let an old class speaker at this point say: No one likes to know better. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] I hope that you will bring to the ground this whole ghastly, which you have brought here today, even during the coalition negotiations with the ÖVP, because this will be your measure of social democracy, valued colleague. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Tomaselli: Enjoy!]] Today we are talking about this request concerning a federal law that amends the Income Tax Act – this is an incredibly bureaucratic title that actually conceals what it is all about – and it is ultimately about justice, real justice for the really hard-working and for the performance providers in this country, ladies and gentlemen. All those who call this into question seem to have failed to understand how much the thousands of people who move in this wage level are doing out there. That is why, I believe, this measure is not bad, because all those who really think it is serious with the performance will hopefully also agree to this request, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Please allow me a preliminary remark: In both Austria and the world, the assets grow less in astronomical terms, while 1 percent owns 40 percent of the assets – 40 percent! Because these figures are usually not enough to bring this to the fore, I have made the effort to develop an example on the basis of this plenary session: Let us imagine, therefore, that colleagues Kurz and Wöginger – unfortunately they are not here – would occupy the right two sectors of the meeting room alone! The rest would then have to spread to the other three sectors, and the poorest half of the Members – with us really nobody is poor, but let's accept it – would have four seats at their disposal. If we were to propose such a seat in this House, we would rightly call it absurd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, however, this is exactly the injustice we experience in Austria day after day. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what social democracy is bringing in here is not any gag or any idealess vision, it is the honest effort to relieve the real everyday performance providers in Austria. After all, this measure is only a first step in our efforts to achieve a real system change, so that we can again relieve the day by day, and not continue to make policy for any donor who can afford it anyway. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All in all, it is a question of burdening the real performance providers in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] . Mr President, if I knew your name, I would replicate your statements. [[Abg. Hörl: Hörl!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:First speech!]] I'll check later. In this sense, all right! Please agree, for a real relief of the hard-working in this country, for a paradigm change, for all the professionals in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! - Thank you. [[Abg. Gahr: Oberkassier!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20628	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign this to Amendment 83/A, which sets out the case of the election of a Financial Committee. [[20:53:13]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) (100/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20673	We're coming to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20704	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal President, according to the valid constitutional situation, is the only representative at the federal level who is directly elected. This gives him a special legitimacy and also a particularly responsible position. Accordingly, the B-VG also assigns a special role to it in the education of the Federal Government. The Federal President currently appoints the Federal Chancellor completely free, without the participation of Parliament, without any other body's proposal. He can theoretically appoint anyone who is elected to the National Council. He shall appoint the remaining members of the Federal Government and the State Secretary on a proposal from the Federal Chancellor. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is entitled to discharge the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the entire Federal Government, without any proposal. He can only discharge the individual Federal Ministers on the proposal of the Federal Chancellor. With this legal situation, which has been in force since the B-VG in 1929, one has so far found it very good to get out. However, in the past half year, there have been processes which give rise to doubts that this legal situation is still up-to-date or optimal, because a Minister of the Interior, who did not owe anything, was dismissed by the Federal President on the proposal of the Federal Chancellor. There was no comprehensible reason for this by the President of the Federal Republic, although this is actually the sharpest measure that can be put against a Federal Minister. That is why this was an objectively unfounded act. In addition, the current Federal President publicly explains in interviews that he does not intend to thank the former Federal Minister again as the Federal Minister, so there would be a corresponding proposal by the Federal Chancellor. [[Call the Greens: Right!]] [[Abg. Fireplaces: Briefly, that says! He won't want him again for a while.]] Again: There is no presumptuous misbehavior, there is not even one blamed. This statement by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany takes place without any justification. A short-term federal government was installed, which did not have Parliament's confidence and could not achieve it. So there is a little doubt about the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The question arises whether he has not acted on ideological or personal motives, especially what has affected the Minister of the Interior. We know that the President of the Federal Government has another political home, but it should not play a role in the exercise of his office. The least of us were aware, I believe, that these processes can be done because of the existing legal situation. [[Abg. Maurer: So I already knew!]] The question for us is whether we should not discuss amending the federal constitution in this regard. That is why we have tabled this proposal to strengthen Parliament's role in the education of the Federal Government. We propose that Article 70 B-VG should be amended in such a way that the Federal Chancellor, the other members of the Federal Government, that is, the ministers, and the State Secretarys of Parliament, as representatives of the Sovereign, are elected by the National Council on the basis of a proposal from the Main Committee. By the way, the whole thing is not a completely new idea from us. We are thus going back to the original version of Article 70 B-VG from 1920, which was exactly what the Federal Government was proposing, namely the election by Parliament, also on the basis of a proposal from the main committee. There was also no right of appointment and no right of dismissal of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in the version of 1920. Perhaps this was also due to the historical context; in 1920, shortly after the collapse of the monarchy, there were enough self-powerful heads of state. Because of the events of the past half year, we would like to open the discussion on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20764	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Klaus Fürlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20788	High Bureau! On the proposal of the Liberal Party, which is naturally to be discussed, I would like to say first of all that we must be very careful with the legislation on occasions. You said it yourself here on the occasion of a government reform which affected you as a Freedom Party, although not a fundamental principle, but a clear principle of the division of violence, the checks and balances, and return to a legal situation prior to 1929. [[Abg. Anger: Bullshit!]] Two brief comments: The Austrian Federal Constitution lives by control and countercontrol in the triangle of power between this House, the Parliament, the Hofburg and the Chancellor's Office, and Austria is this year, since I have a little different opinion than you, already quite well driven with it. That means I have to have a good reason if I'm ever squatting at that structure. Your first argument that a member of your party has been released from the Ministry of the Interior is no reason to shake on this structure. Every Democrat, Mrs Colleague, is obliged and entitled to fight for his cause, to go to the election. However, each democrat is at least as obliged to recognise the results of an election afterwards and then not to begin to use organs that may not be as composite as he had hoped to do by means of disciplines of competence. This is a method in which we have to take good care, because no matter if you have chosen the Lord in Hofburg or not, he is, if he is equipped with a very, very strong democratic vote, then the Federal President of Austria – as well as a federal government based on a democratic legitimacy of this House – is the Federal Government of Austria. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Litschauer and Mr Schallmeiner]] That's what I want to point out, and I don't like it when you go here after a choice and say: That's not my president, or: That's not my federal government! – Anyone who says this has a lack of democratic understanding or is not a democrat. In the first place, we still have a lot of information work to do, and in the latter we have to keep the space relatively tight. I am therefore excited about the discussion that we will then have in a committee, Mrs Colleague, and I also say: If you really want to change this article of the federal constitution, that will not be enough, because you have a few more related articles before and then overlooked it. This system, which has been created, has worked, and I am strictly opposed to the fact that, on a single occasion that I do not yet see as an occasion, we are removing a functioning system of checks and balances, from control and control, but we will be discussing it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20831	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Thomas Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is one of the rare cases that I can talk to a member of the ÖVP and actually give him almost full meaning. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Fireplaces.]] We too will not withdraw from the debate on the constitutional rights of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I also refer to the Constitutional Convention, which has made proposals to that effect. However, the Austrian constitutional system, and in particular the structure of the top organs – the triangle – is of great complexity and, like some, I think, in this complexity of great beauty. One cannot therefore simply change one aspect without seeing the effects on the overall structure. The application submitted by you calls into question fundamental checks and balances, i.e. mutual control and influence rights. However, before changing the interplay between us, the Federal President and the government and detaching the Federal President in the form of an event legislation – which has become clear in your speech today – the possibility of dismissing the government, one must already deal with the fundamental questions of fundamental cooperation in this triangle. [[towards Abg. Prince]] What you propose reminds us of the Constitution before 1929, it also reminds us of the German Constitution. I should just like to remind you that the German Constitution of the Federal President does not directly vote in a popular election, and I wonder how this proposal continues. Are we then again talking about the Chancellors of the Third Republic, whom you have already proposed? Is this the first step in this direction: once to cut the President of the Federal Republic into his fundamental rights? – Opportunities and populism are poor advisers in politics, especially when it comes to the Constitution. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Weratschig.]] Mr Fürlinger mentioned it today: This summer, the Federal Constitution has experienced another highlight in its now hundred years of history – by the way, we also owe this presentation to the activities of your party, as we know exactly. [[towards Abg. Prince]] With the Constitution, and I say this to you as a cultural politician, it is not much different than with good architecture. Good architecture is not only about beauty, it is also about staticism, and it would be reasonable for no one to take out bearing walls without knowing how the influence of this operation is on the overall structure. We are therefore not going to approach this operation either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20916	Mrs Sigrid Maurer spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20937	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I find this request problematic for several reasons, and in principle it is even for the FPÖ, I think that a rather strong piece, such a wide-ranging, massive change would simply be introduced here in such a request without looking for the discussion in other contexts. The background should be clear: This is not a serious proposal, which is indeed to be debated here in the House of Lords, but rather a kind of actionism. The reason for bringing it in is also quite clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] However, I would like to say that it is a serious proposal and not just a show, and I would like to make a few points of contention as to why the proposal that is being put forward here is extremely problematic. First of all, it is a massive intervention into our well-restrained Austrian constitution, which is characterized by beauty and elegance, as our President of the German Federal Republic, Van der Bellen, has to say – and he does not say that wrong. What is proposed here would be a clear blurry of the separation of violence. The separation of violence is a central principle of every democracy. This would be a clear blurry, and for this reason it is certainly not possible to approach it. Secondly, the competences of the President of the Federal Republic in Austria are quite modest compared to those of the Presidents of other countries, but they are good in this design. I consider it difficult to cut these competences, and it is also a bit amusing that, as long as Mr Hofer was still a candidate for the presidency, a broader interpretation or interpretation of the competences of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany was to be heard, but now the opposite is being made and the weakening of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany is being sought – certainly also with a party-political justification that I think is completely wrong at this point. It is already the case that the National Council of Government can express distrust. There is the possibility of selecting a government that is not trusted – this is also happening here for the first time – so it is not understandable why this should be necessary now. Furthermore, the proposal does not provide for any arrangements for any resignation of members of the government. However, these offices must be able to be re-occupied immediately, as you cannot wait for the next plenary or the next main committee to take place to vote. Fifth, you open a bottle The reason for this request already says everything. This request is actually about insulted egos – in fact, about two offended egos, namely, Mr Kickl's ego, who would be so much liked to be Minister of the Interior and would not let himself be said, on the other hand, I suspect the second insulted ego behind me: Head of the Party Hofer, who, as has already been said in the presidential election campaign, has already spoken clearly differently and had an interest in expanding the competences, then did not become President, and now we should cut the competences – that is to say, this is very transparent. However, I think it is extremely problematic, above all, to seek such a far-reaching constitutional change out of these motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20994	Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21019	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember, of course – Mr Maurer has mentioned it – the Federal Presidency election campaign, and the President is very fond of it. [[towards President Hofer]] At the time, I had the honour to report on it as a journalist, and in March 2016 I wrote an article entitled “Our President is not a ‘strong man’”. This discussion was necessary because both candidate countries had a little effort to make them become a little stronger men, and I have, as it should be, in correct objectivity rejected both proposals. I remember Mr. Van der Bellen talking about: Well, if then the FPÖler Chancellor becomes, he doesn't want to do that; perhaps one can disband the National Council. And we have heard from Mr Hofer that if he believes that the government does not do what he wants, he will release the government. – I’ve been very determined to do this: No, we don't want that because we have a well-balanced constitution. I also found an interesting quote by Manfried Welan. Manfried Welan was not only one of the really great constitutional judges in this country, but, the elders at the ÖVP remember, he was also an important ÖVP politician – one of the colorful birds – at a time when the ÖVP was a truly liberal party. So what did Professor Manfried Welan write? He said that the “constitution solves the problem of leadership by providing many leaders”. That is, I think, very plausible, but also very well expressed. That means nothing but that we have a beautiful balance, that it is balanced in this triangle and that it would probably be very unwise to change something about it. But we could already change something, we should do something – it was also about transparency today –: We could also see it as a strengthening of the Parliament, and we could and should take the right as Parliament, before we are appointed ministers – and it was also about the case of a ministerial appointment / discharge – to carry out proper hearings here in Parliament, so that a woman or a man who wants to become a minister or a minister needs to ask himself our questions here. If I were to think back to so many ministers and so many ministers of the past years and decades, I would think that good hearings would have helped save some person from taking over this function, and that would have saved our country. That means – if we can agree on it –: If we make Hearings, we invite the ladies and gentlemen, who become ministers, we discuss with them, but otherwise we leave the Constitution alone as it is now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21071	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I will assign this to Amendment No 100/A, which sets out the case of the election of a Constitutional Committee. [[21:11:29]] 15. Point First reading: Request by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues concerning a federal (constitutional) law amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and the Federal Act on the Court of Auditors (Rechnungshofgesetz 1948 – RHG) (102/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21112	Finally, we come to the 15th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant is addressed to Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21140	Mr President. High house! A few days ago, the contradiction of the year was chosen. This is, as most of you probably know, “Zack, Zack, Zack. ” Unfortunately, it was not only in this contradiction of the year, but it was already required to set up an investigation committee today, and the prosecutor's office is also concerned with this causa, especially with the Causa Casag. We have heard various things in the Ibiza video, known to all of us. We have heard, as the former Vice-President of the Republic has said, how to deal with the Court of Auditors, how to form association structures and so on; everything that we consider to be absolutely wrong, and in view of which we also believe it is urgently necessary to lay down rules and put forward rules, and we will do so in the near future. But there was another saying from this video, which has been quoted very often in the last few days, which reads: “Novomatic pays everyone. ” Especially in connection with Novomatic, of course, the topic has always been raised – and we have already discussed this in the last GP and also before: How can we give more competence to the Court of Auditors, in particular as regards the audit? We are always faced with the same problem, and that is this magical limit of 50 percent – so much so the public has to hold on to a company so that an audit can be carried out. We have already made a request in the last GP – and will do so again today – that this would be important and correct as early as 25 percent. There are many reasons for this; one that is probably known to you, which has been the subject again and again in recent times: If the share that the public hand holds in a company is in between, then it is always about the fact that there must be actual control by the public hand. What is this actual mastery? – This is always a dispute, even for lawyers. We had this case at Vienna Airport. The Supreme Court even had to give a ruling twice in order to clarify what had to be done. But we also often have a subject in the federal states. In four federal states – the Styria, Carinthia, Salzburg and Burgenland – the national accounting authorities are already allowed to examine the participation of 25 percent. That is to say, we have the situation that national accounting courts are allowed to examine companies that are only 25 percent in public hands, but our Court of Auditors at the federal level, a National Council's auxiliary body, must not examine there. I think that's a hard thing to do. A historical review is also relatively exciting: Until 1977, the Court of Auditors was in principle able to examine any undertaking with public participation. At that time, black and red changed that to those 50 percent rule. That is to say, it has been the case that the Court of Auditors has been able to examine much more than it is allowed to examine today. I believe, especially in view of the possible cases of corruption in the room, that there is a poor deal with close-to-state businesses, it is absolutely essential that we give more opportunities to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors itself has repeatedly asked for this competence. This was the last annual report, and I assume that it will again be this year in the annual report, because it is precisely these problems which I have referred to earlier that occur again and again and that it must also be our will to strengthen us as a Parliament and thus also our control body – and this is our own control body – and to give it the opportunity to deliver the things we need, the information and also the reports, as far as possible. That is why I would like us to have a good discussion in the Committee and to come to an implementation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21188	Mrs Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21212	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, in whatever form you follow us! I am very, very excited about the discussion in the Committee and the various arguments that are still being put forward, because in principle I do not feel at all comfortable with this request and can hardly be assigned to it by a political group, which, in fact, always wants to be perceived as very business-friendly. Now we know that the Court of Auditors is examining economy, efficiency and efficiency – that is all right. We know that there is now the 50 percent participation scheme. You would very much have liked to see four shares, three of which are private-sector and a share representing State investment, sending a part of the National Council’s aid body – that is, from us – to a company to make an assessment of this by economy, efficiency and economy. I do not feel at all comfortable as a business representative, because this is an absolute imbalance for me, because of course the entrepreneurship responsibility is also borne by these three private economic parts. Now we also know that Court of Auditors reports are public, Court of Auditors reports sometimes attract public interest, follow public reports. I do not know now whether I want to, if three parts of the company belong to me, that part of the power to criticise myself in the public is not always worthless – not the Court of Auditors, but who knows what the public might do about it. Now, of course, I ask myself the question: Cui bono, who's helping? . I hope that in the discussion in the Committee we can understand who this desire is really helping. I don't think it can prevent what's being investigated right now. I don't think that all companies, due to a problem that has appeared, must be thrown right into a pot that many for something we still have not even know what exactly happened, which is why my appeal: to discuss well in the Committee, to discuss carefully in the Committee and hopefully to discuss fairly in the Committee. - Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21252	Mrs Mag.a Karin Greiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21276	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From a 50 percent interest, we speak of a majority stake, and the Court of Auditors can automatically review. It's known. There is now a request that an audit of the Court of Auditors should be able to take place in the case of a 25 percent participation. This application has a potential for conflict with the share law. This potential for conflict is by no means reduced, but, on the contrary, increased. Why? – Companies that are mostly private-sector companies are subject to certain test criteria. When a company is listed, the stock exchange supervisor is responsible. Otherwise, an annual accounts must be submitted, auditors must provide a statement of confirmation, not forgetting the Supervisory Board and the Annual General Meeting as key control bodies. What does it mean if such an undertaking is also examined by the Court of Auditors in addition to these audit bodies? – This means a significant increase in red tape, and this also means that much more data, facts and figures are available through this company and the public is also known to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider what this could mean in future. Could this lead to a competitive disadvantage? - Yeah, I could. [[Abg. Haubner: Would it be!]] Moreover, I would like not only certain companies to be examined by the proposed control bodies and the Court of Auditors; if, then, really, all companies that are comparable must be subject to equal control and be possible, then we would have equal rights again. Furthermore, I would like to add the following: The Court of Auditors may examine a company even if the State participation is a minority participation. When is that the case? – If syndicate agreements have been negotiated and we find a real mastery; and if this is well regulated, that is clear. In any case, it is important to us as a SPÖ group that the existing control bodies function well and are well used. However, to be able to carry out an audit of the Court of Auditors automatically in the case of 25 percent participation, it needs to be carefully considered, taking into account very carefully the aspects and effects of the share law. For our group, I can only confirm and say: We remain ready to talk on this point in all cases – under the conditions mentioned above. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21311	Mr Christian Lausch came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21335	Mr President. High house! In fact, I am not surprised that the two system parties of this Republic are opposed to the test competence. We can get something absolutely out of the NEOS request, I think it's a real step in the right direction. As soon as the Federal Government is involved with fees, tax payments, the Federal Government should also have the opportunity to have the Court of Auditors examined. The Court of Auditors is an auxiliary body of Parliament. Why you charge the aid at 25 percent is actually unexplainable. We will support this request. We have already made similar proposals in the past, which have not found a majority either. You can see how ropes of red and black can be found right away to prevent this. For other things, you always shout, the Court of Auditors may check, here you do not want to. From our point of view, this is actually unexplainable. I think there are a lot of non-profit-making housing in the countries that it would also be good if it could examine the Court of Auditors. On the whole, I believe that, if you have nothing to hide, you can have nothing against an audit by the Court of Auditors. I am surprised at the fact that at least one has always done so from the point of view of the speaker, as if the Court of Auditors were going to examine everything in the Republic. I am also looking forward to the committee discussions. On the other hand, we do not deny that we are not afraid and have already made similar requests in the past. We will, of course, support this NEOS proposal in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21374	Next speaker is David Stögmüller. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21399	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The last months have shown that we need control: We need control of party finances, we need control of close-to-state enterprises and companies; that is necessary. Then we would have the possible self-service cheeses of some former clubmen à la H.-C. We could also have realized that money from party funds and therefore tax money – and this is the essential thing – was spent and used for a hot tub and for follow-up training. Who knows at all whether some other clubman has not resorted to any spiritual help and support at the expense of taxpayers? As I said, we're going to explain that. For this there is the control right and for that it also needs insight into the party funds. To show exactly these shortcomings, we also need extended competence from the Court of Auditors. That would be necessary, because since Ibiza we know that we need to give the Court of Auditors more audit skills. Today, we are discussing the need for the Court of Auditors to see in future also the conduct of undertakings in which the State is involved to 25 percent. This is important because it would reduce the number of corruption scandals alone by preventing the Court of Auditors from having access to them. This is important and necessary. I know that some parties – for a variety of reasons – do not have to be seen in corporate events or in party funds. It is necessary, however, because corruption adds to the Austrian economy a It's a huge damage to it. Corruption also costs money, just the money that we need for important things, such as to stop climate change, for childcare, for educational institutions, for social projects. That's exactly why we have to use this money, we can't cut it out for anything. I am also very excited about the discussions in the committees. Through the so-called boffee layer in Ibiza – Mr Hoyos has already mentioned it – we have learned that party donations would be by the Court of Auditors. - It has to change. I am absolutely convinced that the Court of Auditors will have to be strengthened in the future. Now, the Court of Auditors can at most report violations to the Independent Party Transparency Senate, which then imposes fines. These penalties are, in fact, ridiculous. For example, I chose one case, I think the last one of the FPÖ that was punished by the Senate in 2018 because the name of a donor was not mentioned in the 2016 account report. What was the penalty for that? – Close 6 000 euros, ridiculous 6 000 euros. You can see that this is still far too toothless. In recent months, a few correct steps have been taken, and more than EUR 3 500 has been required to report donations to the Court of Auditors since June, and only more than EUR 50 000. That was important, but we're far from where we're going. I supported this request – that was still in the Federal Council – because control must be the highest priority in this country. We can no longer allow ourselves any further scandals at the expense of tax money. It takes full insight into the party's funds, and if the slightest suspicion hardens, appropriate fines must also be followed accordingly. In this way, the economy of friends and the self-evidence of taxpayers could be a little dampened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The accounting reports must also be subject to uniform rules. I think that's necessary. At present, they are not comparable and information on assets, debt or election expenditure is not really meaningful. These are the points on which we need to work, for which we need to find common majority groups and about which we need to consult in the committees. As representatives, we are simply guilty to taxpayers. They have the right to know how the parties deal with their funds, how close-to-state companies in which the State is involved are dealing with their tax money. We Greens are happy to discuss the extension of the Court of Auditors' powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21460	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I will assign this to Amendment 102/A, which sets out the case of the election of a Constitutional Committee. [[21:30:03]] 16. Point
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21493	Finally, we come to the 16th. Agenda item. There is agreement to elect the following committees: the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the National Defence Committee, the Cultural Committee and the Court of Auditors. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – This has been adopted unanimously. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in § 30 of the Rules of Procedure. For the Committees mentioned above, a number of 23 members and substitute members are proposed, whose division among the clubs is as follows: ÖVP per 9 members, SPÖ per 5 members, FPÖ per 4 members, Greens per 3 members and NEOS per 2 members. We shall vote on this proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. The names of the members or substitutes notified by the clubs to the President and then as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[The names of the members and replacement members and their functions are actively available on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament> Committees.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[21:31:47]] Short debate on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21565	We are now entering the brief debate on the request for 1/US to set up an investigative committee on ‘probable buyability of the turquoise-blue Federal Government (Ibiza Investigation Committee)’. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The desire is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21836	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'll give it to you. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all remember the 17th. May of this year, starting at 6 p.m., within a relatively short time, almost every and every one of us has seen a short video that was apparently recorded in the summer of 2017. I also think they all remember a few key moments: “Novomatic pays everyone” and wants licenses as a consideration for them. We all remember: Glock, Glock, Glock!, the weapons producer, who also wants to provide support for donations. We remember the billionaires and billionaires, such as hordes, who donate to parties out of idealism. They also expect compensation in the form of: no inheritance tax, no gift tax, no wealth taxes and no taxes at all. We remember that the reform of banking supervision, financial market supervision and OeNB was an issue. We all remember “zack, zack, zack”, that newspapers are bought and that unloving editors – “zack, zack, zack” – are to be removed and new arrivals and pushed for it. – That was the theory, that was in summer 2017. ==References== A new federal government was presented on December 7, 2017. A new federal government has been praised and has made its government statement here – and then many things have happened that remind me of this video. As we have seen in the meantime, Novomatic has donated several hundred thousand euros to a FPÖ-nearer association. This association has done exactly nothing with this money for two years. Now there has been some pro-forma event. ÖVP Finance Minister Löger has told the ÖVP Urgestein Raiffeisenbanker Rothensteiner, who was the head of the casinos' Supervisory Board and is still, the FPÖ has a background deal with Novomatic or vice versa, in which it has been about ordering the board at the casinos. The right hand of ÖVP Finance Minister Löger has photographed secret documents in the Ministry of Finance, in which it is concerned with licensing, and has sent them to Novomatic, a gambling group. A few hours later, ÖVP Finance Minister Löger had an appointment there. He claims you only talked about the weather. We know in the meantime that they have rather talked about betting, about gambling, about background deals, about new licenses. The employees of ÖVP Finance Minister Löger and FPÖ State Secretary Fuchs have met with officials of the house and have made observations on how to change the gambling law in favour of a provider, namely Novomatic. That's what we know in the meantime. We know that Mr. Schmid – the right hand; a friend of yours, Mr. Kurz, he is certainly not quite unknown to you – within 24 hours of Öbag's boss and thus head of the casinos, i.e. the administrator of casinos' participations. The ÖVPler became Öbag CEO and Mr. Sidlo became Chief Financial Officer at the casinos. Everything that appeared in the video as a theoretical blue game, in reality, has become apparent as a turquoise-blue race, who can be more useful to Novomatic with a legislation it would like to have. We've seen everything possible. I honestly don't know if Glock has donated to the ÖVP or to the FPÖ, I don't know, you know that best. [[Call the ÖVP... the SPÖ not?- Oh, my God!]] But what we've already seen is that Glock's wife suddenly became a supervisor in the Austro Control. The video says that Heidi is donating horten of FPÖ – I don't know that – but I know that she has set up a permanent order of, I think, 49 000 euros per month for the ÖVP. I'm sure you'll know better than I do. If it had been a little more, it should have been reported to the Court of Auditors and the public immediately. The amount of 49 000 euros has certainly only been chosen by chance. I do not think that, I think, was an obvious circumvention of transparency provisions. That's all happening in the video. We have seen how FMA and OeNB have been reformed in a way that is more reminiscent of Hungary; how to act undemocraticly there, how to call by law persons who are unloving, from their functions, how they have been placed there. I think there is no one in the ÖVP anymore who believes that the personnel decisions in the OeNB were the right and the best. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] There are eight supervisory councils in the OeNB. What do you appreciate? How many of these eight Supervisory Boards are either accused or involved in the casinos affair? - That's half, four out of eight. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We see that what we have seen in the Ibiza video as a blue theory has revealed in reality as a blue-Turkish development. There, where we have the impression that in theory it was obviously about how a supposed Ukrainian oligarchy buys politics, we see in reality: No, Austrooligarchen from the gambling industry, from the arms industry, from the construction industry, obviously could buy policy here. That's what it's about in this committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Krisper and Meinl-Reisinger.]] These are essentially three questions: The first is: How commercial have ÖVP and FPÖ been, how commercial has the policy of strache and short been? [[Abg. Stefan:... the SPÖ off! Don't you have anything to hide?- Oh, my God!]] The second question is: What do we need to change the laws of the parties? One thing we have already done, large donations have now been banned. What do we need to do to achieve immunisation of the system? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stefan.]] The third question we want to answer is whether the Committee of Inquiry should answer: How do we prevent the next time, i.e. the case that in the public at least the suspected impression that politics is buying must arise? [[Abg. Stefan: If you have nothing to hide, why do you do that? Because of objectivity it would be!]] That's why we do that. [[Abg. Stefan: You have nothing to hide! Is there something to hide?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – You are cordially invited to do this. This mandate shall apply to all parties and to all members of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Wöginger: Bissl is badly formulated formulated!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Is there something to hide?]] I am looking forward to cooperation, and I assume that, as in the past, all the members of this committee of inquiry work on the subject of investigation and investigation so that we can clarify the matter properly. [[Call the ÖVP:We are already pleased!]] I assume that we are debating the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in January here in the plenary session and that the Committee of Inquiry can then begin its work. It should actually be in the interest of all political groups to explain whether policy was really buying or buying. The suspect is there, the prosecutor's office determines on criminal offences, and our task is to establish political responsibility. We do this and we hope that all other political groups will also cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22011	The honourable Member is speaking. Wolfgang Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22035	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer has now put a lot of suspicions in the room, but he has not provided any evidence. He has chosen a whole new approach, especially in comparison to how he spoke a few weeks ago. Let's go back. What's this about? – It's about board orders at Casinos AG. There were all kinds of suspicions that have taken place on the part of the Social Democrats and also from the NEOS. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Also from the public prosecutor's office!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: The prosecutor's office has also said one thing or another!]] Yeah, and what did he talk about now? If he no longer talks about it, I can assume that board orders, as they take place in a stock company, are an ordinary process. I can assume that it is quite normal for an owner to choose a representative for a Supervisory Board or a Board of Directors or to support one. It's an ordinary process. Mr Krainer referred to a video that was recorded just over two years ago. There is a suspicion that there may have been agreements or promises in some form from the Freedom Party in the background. If it really was so that there were promises and agreements, then it is natural to condemn it hardest, and then, as the colleagues from NEOS have said, that is a criminal act. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But in a slightly different context!]] Whose job is to check that? - The prosecutor's office. It is the duty of the judicial system to investigate such processes quickly and to clarify them quickly. I also stick to what I said at the last meeting – Mr Krainer has just tried to give an invitation to everyone –: It is quite natural that every party here – at least the ÖVP – actively cooperates in the preparation of all the accusations that have been raised. Let me now address three specific points relating to the request. Mr Krainer started with: “Novomatic pays everyone”! - That was a sentence from the video. I'm just wondering one thing: Why was the word Hazelsteiner, just as it was said in the video, not also mentioned? – Maybe because NEOS signed the request and refused the word Haselsteiner? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You're confusing something, but don't do anything! We can watch the video again!]] We can take a closer look at a second point in the proposal. Let us look at page 7 of the application – look at it carefully –: At once, SPÖ and NEOS write that they want to review 60 percent of all government documents in the last legislative period – 60 percent! [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what else does Casinos AG have to do with this? That's clearly just one thing: You want a bill with Turquoise Blue! That and nothing else is your access, that is purely party-political calculation, and we reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They appear to be acting according to the motto: If we throw a little dirt, there's something left to pick! That doesn't surprise me at the SPÖ, it's always been that way. Since the failure of the core intermezzo, the party has been so bad that it immediately seeks a way to divert and move on to others. [[Abg. Wöginger: This is the truth!]] This is the point on which the SPÖ has been in place lately. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But that NEOS has now become the riser of the SPÖ, which is surprising, because this contradicts the credo of its founder Matthias Strolz and her presidential candidate Irmgard Griss. They wanted to work with constructive proposals for Austria, they wanted a new political discourse. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: We did eh! You rejected today! Player Protection!]] You, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, are just sitting out of purely party-political culprit here and throwing dirt; nothing else, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion [[Abg. Bernhard: Such a boring speech!]] The Court of Justice shall carry out all investigations. [[Abg. Lightenness: speaking time!]] It is urgent that the accusations be clarified, and it is important that the Republic of Austria, speaking of the forthcoming government, on the question of how we are dealing with Casinos AG in the future, make a good decision in peace, as it concerns, on the one hand, the protection of players and, on the other, the economic location of Austria and the economic power of this company, the largest taxpayer of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22208	Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22232	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Gerstl, it is in no way about throwing dirt, or about any distraction maneuver, but there are serious accusations in the room, there is a suspicion moment. For us as a Parliament, with a control function, it is important to highlight and clarify this in detail. - That's the first one. The second is the central question – you think it's about a flat-rate cleaning: Does the Causa Casinos system have or was it a single case? You will find that in our desire. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Everything started on a lukewarm summer evening, when a round of people on a Spanish island spent an evening, on which – you have already guessed at that time – alcohol was clearly at play in the afternoon. I don't think the people who were present at the time and had this conversation knew at that time what a explosive would be the content of this conversation. It passed about two years, and in May, in the early evening of 17th. May – that has already been mentioned – we were confronted with a video. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how you did, but at the first moment I thought it was Fakenev's, so shaken I was of what I saw there. After a very short time it turned out that there were no fakenews, it was not about the loose pudding that took place there, but about the content. Now I just want to present a few words: Large sponsors – what happens to them? –; Conversion of the “Kronen Zeitung”, i.e. attack on the media; partial privatisation of Austrian water supply as well as prospected state orders; and the quote already mentioned: “Novomatic pays everyone”. – This is to be illuminated in detail. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With a blow, ladies and gentlemen, our Republic slipped into a light that no one could wish for. We know the consequences of internal policy: Announcing the Turkish-blue coalition, transitional government, new elections, and we are currently facing coalition negotiations. The consequences away from the elections are in total for politics, are fatal for all of us. Let us think of our credibility, of our concept of democracy, which has been fully questioned with this video! Think of the trust placed in us, in politics, in dealing with power, with political responsibility! Is politics really buying? – It is precisely this question that has to be asked in detail and this very question has to be answered. And above all, in a country, in a republic like ours, the question arises: Is it really true that people are all equal, or are there people who are more equal because they can afford something and because they can buy various laws? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What has happened from the publication of the video is harmful to the entire policy and to our democracy, which is why it is important to clarify here as soon as possible and to combat this loss of trust. That is what has been said, of course, to be done through the investigative authorities, which is the criminal component, but also, of course, through Parliament. This is, however, in the DNA and on behalf of our Constitution, that Parliament is doing educational work and putting light in the dark – for questions that are more than brilliant and which simply deserve answers. I would like to know in detail these questions: Who's behind that? Who was involved by the old turquoise-blue federal government? Who is politically responsible? [[Abg. Wöginger: The government didn't even exist at that time!]] “Novomatic pays everyone” – what does that mean? Has this just had a system, or is the Casinos Causa a single case? Is that what is theoretically formulated in the video then come to implementation? – The suspicion is in the room, also supported by the appointment of the Executive Board of Casinos Austria AG. Media reports and also published chat protocols raise the suspicion of buying the law. The question, ladies and gentlemen, should be raised very clearly. It is important to clarify this politically here in the house. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Just because we are people's representatives and because we are responsible to citizens, we need to clarify such abuses or accusations as they stand in the room and make them as transparent as possible. We need confidence in the functioning of democracy, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, help you and cooperate actively in our Committee of Inquiry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22293	Member Christian Hafenecker has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22319	Mr President. High house! Yes, there are processes in this Republic that need to be investigated. There are even a lot of them. There is a silver stone affair that has never been clarified. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Social democracy is still in silence. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is a justice in this country that is close like a noodle sieve. We know which files are constantly finding their way to the public. That too should be studied, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wöger: That's it!]] There is an interior minister who refuses to comply with laws, as we have seen in recent days. It is also important to examine this. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is a Federal Chancellor who disregards the National Council and simply does not sign laws. These too are things you need to look at. Yes, there are also things that happen in close-to-state businesses that do considerable damage to them at the end of the day. Of course, there are occupations in all the new government constellations that can be discussed if one wants to do so politically. One can also go here and abuse a committee of inquiry for it, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, only that is not our access. The Causa Casag is a Causa because it was made for it. I would just like to sum this up briefly: Mr Sidlo was nominated, was supported by all the participants, was appointed by the Supervisory Board and was also politically executed at the end of the day, by the same Supervisory Board, who had just hired him – but not with the argument that he did not have the appropriate competences, but with the argument to hold back damage from the company. Ladies and gentlemen! This damage has long been done. If we look at today's news, we read that Novomatic is out of the Casinos Austria, then we read that a Czech takeover is imminent, which may result in the company's headquarters being moved to the Czech Republic. I would have liked to hear the figures from Mr Finanzminister, which will actually cost us this development at the end of the day. One has still made politics, ladies and gentlemen: the works council in Casag. I am excited how exactly this works council of the staff, the staff of Casag, will at the end explain where their jobs have remained when the whole group moves to the Czech Republic. This will have to be explained by the Works Council. In fact, the Supervisory Board, which has actually acted in Shizopheren, is even worse, and I wonder where the Supervisory Board sees its responsibility. It was precisely this Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that made Mr Hoscher, in part, the best-dominated walker of the Republic: 6 000 euros per day holiday money for a social democrat, you have to imagine that! More than 100 days of vacation, 6 000 euros per day, that is more than 600 000 euros only holiday money! [[Abg. Bösch: Unheard!]] No one understands. You can't explain that to anyone. I can't believe what's happening here. He was also given 600 000 euros of clearance. And now it's going to be sad, my SPÖ colleagues: He now receives only more than 40 000 euros per month for walking compared to the 100 000 euros he had before, probably since 1998. So he's been kicking fifty million. They have installed a very, very well positioned social democrat. In contrast to Mr Sidlo, he has no qualifications, except that he was at some point the suitcase carrier of Mr Edlinger. That was the only qualification he brought. He was then sent to the Federal Council, further to the National Council, then he also became a board of foundations in the ORF, to the National Bank he was also placed and even to the board of trustees of the SK Rapid so that the cooperative was rounded off. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you really want to raise your moral toe finger in view of these circumstances? – I find this inappropriate and inappropriate. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] A chuzpe is the time we're talking about. They want to start studying with 18.12.2017 and stop yesterday – to hide exactly the SPÖ activities in this area. Why don't we look at the orders in the state area in the last 15 years? Why don't we look at how Mr. Kern managed to land in connection? [[Intrusions of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Why don't we look at how it hit him in the ÖBB, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? These are things we should all be interested in. Let's talk about Mrs. Wehsely, about the hospital North and her career at Siemens! Let's talk about the Öbag, let's look at the heart and kidneys too! Let's look back 15 years, and don't distract from your own miscarriage! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are at your disposal for any kind of information, so you can expect it. What we do not do, however, is to make the National Council's investigative committee an instrument that, on the one hand, meets NEOS's prophylaxis and, on the other hand, is, as it were, the last life-sustaining infusion for SPÖ's party presidents. So come with serious proposals, ladies and gentlemen, and above all do not make your problems ours!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22439	Mrs Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22460	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the last speech is self-evident. It will not be less than what we have to do with accusations. Over the last few weeks, we Greens have repeatedly stressed that we do not only support an investigation committee on party-political positions and questionable actions in the field of gambling, but we have explicitly called for it. We have also made our own proposals, which should be examined in detail, such as the original sale of state shares in the casinos of Austria in Novomatic, in the Novomatic Group. That would be urgent to investigate, but also a lot of other things. In this area, serious accusations have been repeated since 2006 and have already been examined in a committee of inquiry until 2012. Since then, however, there have been accusations about buying law, bribery, so in total corruption. I have to remind you at this point of what Werner Kogler said this afternoon. In the much quoted Ibiza video, Strache says yes: “Novomatic pays everyone. ” [[Call at the FPÖ: Mrs. Glavischnig too?]] [[Abg. Stefan: The Greens are there too, with “all”!]] This is a statement that was most likely not made in the direction of the future, but in relation to the present and probably also to the past. Therefore, from our point of view, it is not comprehensible or, at least, not favourable that the subject-matter of the investigation is limited only to the last two years. It may be understandable from SPÖ view, but not understandable to us. We have tabled these proposals and unfortunately we have had to note that the SPÖ and NEOS have had a rather limited interest in cooperation. There has been no further vote – as originally planned – but this project has been presented at a press conference. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What was planned?]] It's all right – it's just that – but there's no chance to get closer to that, and even today – we got the draft for the subject at 7 o'clock in the morning – there was no more chance to get in there. We would have liked to have done this. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:...! That's the desire!]] We would have liked to have been involved in the subject-matter of the investigation. I therefore very much regret that there has been no better vote in this respect, because this demand is already apprehensive that a targeted, efficient investigation of the specific suspicions may be difficult and that we want to fish with a much too large-scale net in the murky waters. [[Call to the ÖVP:Yes, so they are!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Say those who want to expand it!]] The Committee on the Rules of Procedure will now examine this request in accordance with the procedure laid down, and I hope that it will be possible to include improvements in the text so that the whole can be watertight, legal concerns can be removed and a process to the Constitutional Court is not in the room. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Yes, there's much to improve, you're perfectly right! Are we going to succeed in all this?]] In any event, the legal concerns relating to the formulation of the subject-matter of the investigation and the subject-matter of evidence should be eliminated. I very much hope that will be possible in the Committee. It is extremely important that the allegations that have been made in the Ibiza video – and that can certainly be truths – will be the subject as well as the painting in the gambling field. But it must also be guaranteed – and this is a special concern to me – that the legal side, i.e. the prosecutors and the courts in their investigations will not be hindered. I don't want anyone to escape a conviction from the investigation committee. Well, that wouldn't be good at all. We Greens stand for clean environment and clean policies – we have always done so – and we will contribute to the investigation committee with the usual expertise and staffing power of our new club and, of course, to the investigation. I also believe – I hope – that cooperation, as in the past, can become a good one, and perhaps we will succeed in removing in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure the concerns that are now in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22570	Mrs Krisper is the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22592	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have now formulated the subject matter as we consider NEOS the most important. We were the first – in a press conference, as there was no talk with SPÖ at all – to demand an investigation object with exactly this focus, namely one aimed at the last German government. Why? - Because it seems most urgent to us. Why? – Because it may finally be that there is a political responsibility here of people who could sit in the next federal government – and there must be consequences. We owe this to citizens so that they can regain confidence in politics. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Do you still take yourself seriously?]] Why this focus? – Because a new quality stands in the room, namely not only classical post chess, but also the question: Posts for money, concessions against influence, money against change of law in gambling. It is important here to clarify a lot. We don't close any other investigations at all. I myself suffer from the fact that we cannot look at the time of 2010 – gambling novels and possibly an influence of Novomatic on these. We also do not lock ourselves to a future subject of investigation to other post chess; but that is not the most urgent now. I hope that good cooperation with the Greens, with Mr Stögmüller, who seems to be going into the Committee, will be a constructive part of the other two parties and will conclude with this. And since I am the last speaker, I use the opportunity and wish you a nice Christmas, good rest and now a good night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22634	That's kind, ladies and gentlemen, just: We're not that far from wishing for a good night. [[22:05:01]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22656	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 16 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 16: "After consulting the Presidential Conference, there is agreement to elect the following committees: Committee on Internal Affairs, Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, National Defence Committee, Cultural Committee and Court of Auditors This is [...] accepted. A number of 23 members and replacement members are proposed for these committees. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 9 members and replacement members SPÖ each 5 members and replacement members FPÖ per 4 members and replacement members GROUNDS per 3 members and replacement members NEOS per 2 members and replacement members This is [...] accepted. ==References====External links== To appoint replacement members of the committees, which are thus valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ Are there any objections to this version of the Official Protocol? – Since this is not the case, this part of the Official Protocol shall apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[22:06:29]] Assignment of the request for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22732	I can still repeat – it has not been lost – that I am in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure to assign to the Rules of Procedure the request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on ‘probable buyability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government (Ibiza Examining Committee).’ [[22:06:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-12-11-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22756	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, self-employed applications 110/A(E) to 169/A (E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.07 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
