ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5984	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the 63. The European Council held a meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 59. Meeting of 29. January 2019 as well as the 60th, 61st and 62nd. Meeting of 30 March 1990 January of this year, the Parliament's Directorate has been disputed and has not been challenged. Deputies Angela Fichtinger, Hermann Gahr, Barbara Krenn, Cornelia Ecker, Dr. Harald Tür, Klaudia Friedlund Mag are reported to have been prevented for today's meeting. Gerald Hauser. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6036	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office reported that the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Dr. Karin Kneissel was represented by the Federal Minister for Defence Mario Kunasek. I can announce that ORF 2 is transferring this meeting live by 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full time, starting at 7.15 p.m. [[09:06:10]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6074	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Do you do everything you can for the safety of our children in road transport, Mr Minister?!” Mrs. Rendi-Wagner is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6102	Mr President. Federal Minister Hofer! Minister Kunasek! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Without a doubt, in the political language we often have to deal with terms that sometimes sound very bulky and which do not really know what is behind them. In today's debate at the present hour, we are dealing with the topic of truck abduction assistants – sounds very technical, almost technocratic, sounds like a special topic. At the latest, however, a very simple but very hard question has been hidden behind this topic for a few days: What are we and what are the Politics Worth Life and Child Life? – This is exactly what is hidden behind the concept of abduction assistant for trucks. They all know it was the 31. January this year, when a nine-year-old Bub was killed in Vienna, because an abominable truck didn't have just this abduction assistant. These are certainly deeply sad facts, and I do not think I have to talk to you morally. In today's speech, however, I won't be consciously talking about one party or another, nor will I talk about government and opposition, I just want to do this today: I would like to ask the 183 Members of this House a simple question: Can there really be a price for children, Mr. Federal Minister, who is too high for us? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have all learned a lot about technical details in the last few days medially. We have learned that the so-called dead angle at trucks is very large – larger than in passenger cars – and we have also learned that there is no longer a need for these large dead corners because there are solutions to avoid this dead angle because trucks can be retrofitted. Yes, it costs money, but yes, it saves life, because in this great dead corner of trucks people die, and many times it is children who die there. We know that when we close this dead angle, we end the death of people and children by such accidents. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] In this context, I would also like to thank a very well-known and large food chain in this country, which bears the same name as you, Federal Minister. This food chain, this company has announced to equip its trucks, their delivery weights voluntarily and at its own expense and with these delivery assistants. Why? – For ethical reasons, for moral reasons. It is a big step that is being taken here by the private sector, by this private enterprise, this company, but it is also a signal to us, to the politicians that the economy has recognized this moral necessity – and I think we should also recognize it, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The motivation for this food chain is quite simple: She doesn't want to be responsible for killing people with her own vehicles. That is why I can also ask everyone else to follow this signal and this model. Let us make the streets safer in Austria, for all people, but especially for our children! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] We do not discuss the safety of children for the first time in this House. I remember that we discussed this issue very often last year in the non-smokers' debate. Yesterday, at the expert hearing in the Health Committee, we also discussed the safety, health of children and young people in this country, the young apprentices in the gastronomy who are involuntarily exposed to smoking. As a social Democrat, I have honestly not understood this when, for your part, it is argued on the issue of costs and competitiveness in relation to the safety of children and young people. There is no understanding of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, it's about morality, it's about ethics, it's about responsibility that politics has to bear. Many of us have children and grandchildren, and each of our children and grandchildren would have this child on 31 December. They can be those who were killed by this truck. Yes, it is a common responsibility which we here in the House. have and you have in the government, and this is a responsibility not to put problems of this kind, like many others, to move to the long bank, but to answer and resolve as quickly, as clearly and as effectively as possible. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] We all know the technical debate and the debate on European freedom of movement for goods and all the discussions or obstacles at European level. I have said it honestly enough if you make proposals that lead to solutions that the first thing you hear is how big the obstacles to putting it into practice. That was exactly the same story in the rental tax that we proposed to abolish. But, ladies and gentlemen, today we really want to send the message to all the parents of this country – and many are sitting in this hall – in Austria, that the safety of their children is very important to us, but it is not possible to implement it before 2021, 2022, that we can only fulfil this safety at school in a few years, although it is at the table that it is now possible if the political will is there and the political responsibility is perceived? – Yes, we can already do it today, there are no transitional periods, Mr Federal Minister! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Before we go into technical debates and put everything on the table, which is not possible, we should always go back a step and make it clear what our most important task is in politics, namely to represent the interests of the Austrians and their children – and this is also about the safety of children! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Let us here in the House as a Member of Parliament – and you as a member of the government – take this task, this responsibility seriously, we do it! Let us decide for safety and against the dead angle! Let us decide for the children and not for competitiveness! Let us decide for life and against grief, Federal Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6226	The Federal Minister Hofer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you, Mrs Klubobfrau, for this very material contribution. The debate over the last few days has partly been marked by very large emotions, which are, of course, understandable, but also by very pervasive debates. I think those who know me personally know that I always try not to go into personal life in my political life or not to attack it under the belt line – and if it happens to me, I apologize for it. I believe that many of those who have been shot far beyond the target in the last few days, such as: The Minister is personally responsible for every child who gets hurt! that they may see this a little differently today – I hope so. I can present you with a few figures on the accident situation with truck participations in Austria. There were 77 accidents with truck involvement in 2012 where people were killed. In 2017, it was 52. The figures for 2018 are not yet available because the causes of the accident are also examined. Also on the tragic accident that we have been discussing in recent days, the report will be in place in the next few weeks and will be announced as well as cause of accident or accident. The people killed in 2017 in heavy truck accidents were three cyclists, six pedestrians, eight people drove single-track motorcycles and 35 accidents were related to other vehicles, that is, in particular cars. Let us now look at the truck accidents at intersections – that was all accidents, including on the motorways, highways, federal roads –: In 2012 17 people were killed in truck accidents. It was then God's positive development, but in 2016 again negative, there were 17 people who died again, and in 2017 there were seven people. Now let's look at what it looks like when we turn right. How many people have died in accidents involving heavy trucks when they turn right? – These were five persons in 2012, two in 2013, two in 2014, two in 2015, four in 2016 and three in 2017. In 2017, 52 people were killed in road accidents with heavy trucks, three of them in the right turn. Let us now look at the legal situation! We had a truck summit, where many measures have been discussed and which has also been very objective. There were different interpretations after this summit, who demanded something there. Of course, participants have also said that we would like to see the mandatory turn-off assistant. It is, however, a question of whether this is the demand for a national single entry. I would like to ask you to make this clear today in the speeches which one prefers. I can only say that I have no opportunity, or we have no possibility, that Parliament has no way of imposing a mandatory turn-off assistant as an EU member. Why is that? – The EU type-approval system for vehicles provides that vehicles having such type-approval and thus complying with harmonised technical requirements must be approved for transport in each EU Member State! That is, we have no way of saying that in Austria we have another legal option. I would like to ask you – all those who do not believe this – to contact the experts of the Ministry of Transport personally. These are employees who have been in office there for many, many years, are real experts and have not been employed by me, but by my predecessors – and you, too, as Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport, have trusted these experts in recent years. An obligation to equip new trucks or retrofit existing trucks in Austria with abductors would not only not be in conformity with EU law, it would inevitably lead to infringement proceedings. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] During the Austrian Presidency, a general approach has been adopted to ensure that these delivery assistants are introduced at EU level in 2022 for type-approval and 2024 for all new registrations. Now there is the debate at EU level, whether we can do this a year earlier. Many confuse the periods and believe that it would be three years earlier – no, a year earlier, namely at the type-approval from 2022 to 2021 and in the new registrations from 2024 to 2021. I would very much welcome this, and I am convinced that the mandates from Austria will also support this path. The above provisions concern new vehicles and not the vehicle stock, i.e. those already approved trucks. It could also ensure an appropriate retrofitting obligation at EU level in the legal framework, but not through a national single entry; this would also contradict EU law. There is now a German legal opinion. How can this German legal opinion be classified from the Austrian point of view? – Also here is the statement of the experts from the Ministry of Transport, who have been used by my predecessors: The opinion refers to the national German legal situation, but it does not allow any conclusions to be drawn for the Austrian legal situation – or, to express it more clearly, according to the experts from the Ministry of Transport, it is totally irrelevant for Austrian law. That is, for us it is not possible to gain any knowledge that would be applied to our legal situation. Now let's do a thought experiment: Let us assume that we are not a member of the European Union and that we can decide completely freely! We could say: So, an abbot assistant is now mandatory in Austria! – How do we deal with foreign trucks? That is to say, trucks from abroad should no longer enter Austria or all trucks should be controlled at the borders, that is, the borders should be controlled much more strictly than today. Let us now come to the immediate measures that can be implemented, and that was also the effort at the truck traffic summit: work out what we can do, what measures Austria can take. . I would like to stress once again that the summit has been very constructively led and that all participants have tried to put forward their solution proposals and also show how to implement them. What are we doing? – You know, there is private parking for trucks on Asfinag parking places, where it is possible to set the mirror. Many, many trucks are on the go with wrong-set mirrors, which increases the dead angle. There are currently only two such parking spaces. We will expand this massively and also hold talks with the mineral oil industry so that this possibility for truck drivers and truck drivers also exists on gas stations. I would also like to see a launch for this professional group, which is really hard to break, which is under great pressure and has to do a lot. When an accident occurs, the person who has suffered damage is to be complained, but it is also the person who has been at the tax and has suffered a lifetime of this accident. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another measure is the so-called Trixi mirror: These are mirrors that are attached directly to the traffic lights. There is a model from Germany that works very well, which has significantly reduced the number of accidents. The dead angle can then be seen via this mirror outside the vehicle. In addition to the ramp mirror, which is also available at trucks through which you can see the dead angle from above, you can see from the front at this angle. There is an open call for traffic safety, where we immediately provide 1 million euros for the research project of dead angles. Thankfully, we have launched the Mobileye project, which you, honourable Member, have created. You once asked why the result is not yet available. The results will be available in April, because in the course of the study there are facts in which the experts do not yet agree on why these different figures – there are large differences between summer numbers and winter figures – so the result has been a few weeks late and will be available in April. We invest 5 million euros from the resources of Asfinag in the training and further training of truck and bus drivers, since also specifically with a focus dead angle. At the summit, there was also the proposal that we put in place measures to raise awareness of the dead angle, i.e. to draw particular attention to the risks to children from trucks when it comes to raising traffic safety. Older people, however, often have similar problems, and we also want to focus on this. Let us now turn to the amendments to the road transport regulations: At this summit, we also discussed a change in the road transport regulations, and we will actually make a change to the StMOs. So far, it's the case that at intersections you can order a right-wing offer, but you can't differentiate between vehicles that have a dead angle and those that have no dead angle. This differentiation will exist in the future. Crossroads are defined which, at a dead angle, actually pose a danger to pedestrians and pedestrians, to cyclists and cyclists. Then there is the possibility to detach these intersections by, for example, moving the zebra strips, moving the lines, changing the traffic lights, placing Trixi mirrors. If the crossing is not depleted, there can be a legal bid for vehicles with a dead angle. – That’s why it’s about changing the road traffic regulations. I should like to add that Mrs Vassilakou has also proposed a change to the StVO at this summit, but she has had another proposal to block entire districts and districts for trucks. We believe that a targeted measure related to the crossing is better, because such vehicles can no longer enter the city, even where there is no danger, not even where you just pass through the city – and please do not forget that goods and products have to be delivered! That is why we propose this targeted measure. It is also often the example of London. I have said that there is currently no one country around the world – not yet, but it will come! – in which an abbot assistant is mandatory, and then London always comes as an example. Now let me tell you how London tackles this problem: This applies only to the City of London, for a very small part of the city, and only to trucks over 12 tons. With us we speak of trucks with 7.5 tons, there of trucks over 12 tons. The vehicles are then grouped into categories whether they have an all-round view or not. In this category classification, the mirror systems are not taken into account only if you have a round view through the windows or not – there are buses where this is very good. The vehicle with the largest possible relevant space, i.e. the greatest possible view, gets five stars, the worst gets no star. ==References== In October 2020, vehicles of class N3, i.e. those that do not have a star, are no longer allowed to enter Greater London, unless they can have a safe system. What is this safe system now? – This is not the abrasion assistant, but safe system is called there: Reduction of the dead angle by additional mirrors – so this is about mirror systems – through a camera system or through a sensor system. . So you see that at European level, we are more at EU level and can achieve more than is planned in the City of London. As of 26.10.2024, it is planned in London that vehicles with 0 to 2 stars may no longer enter unless they can have a Progressive Safe System. What this system is is not defined, it says, it will then take into account all the technologies that are not yet available, so that will probably be a model similar to the abbey assistant, but only from 26.10.2024. At EU level, we have already made compulsory use of the turn-off assistants. An employee of mine got a letter from Willy Matzke. Willy Matzke is certainly one of the most important traffic experts in Austria. This traffic expert writes: “I had the first accident of my life more than 50 years ago with a garbage truck in Vienna, which cut the curve and then literally drove over the front part of my beetle. Of course, he was guilty, but I also learned that you can't get too close to a truck, not just because of the dead angle. I then immediately made the truck driver’s license and my studies tw – partly – “citizened by truck driving, course service Vienna-Vorarlberg, of course still without tunnels and without Inntal motorway. Therefore, one must not go on the LKw unilaterally or require one-sided special equipment, but rather clarify it instead of punishing [...]. It is also possible to look at the Eurotest protection routes, where, as head of the ÖAMTC Transport Division, I referred to the problems at the time. The traffic lights are consciously designed on a confrontational “confrontation” (see the improvement proposed by the transport department of the Vienna police at the Vienna Danube Canal). I know cases where MA 46 officials have been transferred because they have proposed improvements. Vienna’s protection paths are also ill lit, best in Burgenland.” I don't want to go to Vienna. [[Abg. Mein-Risinger: Is it?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Vienna has a lot to do with road safety, but allow me to read this paragraph because I want to show that the truck alone is not the problem. ==References====External links== February 2019 – and with this I come to the end of my speech – the following: “More victims of accidents with trucks would now go to the account of Minister of Transport Norbert Hofer (FPÖ). This was said by the initiator of the petition for mandatory abbey assistants, Helge Fahrenberger, after the safety summit on Tuesday. For the duty to upgrade or retrofit the trucks to light up dead angles does not come first.” – I explained earlier why this is the case. “Experts, truck drivers and employees of the Vienna MA48 reported to the Minister at the summit of major problems with the technology currently available. The cameras and sensors, for example, would not be able to distinguish hydrants from pedestrians or cyclists and each time sound alarms.” What does Vienna City Councillor Ulli Sima say about this? She said: “It was only in this respect that Minister Hofer agreed. “It would be irresponsible to spend a lot of money now before the best system is found,” says Ulli Sima. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say once again that we are doing everything that is legally possible so that we can make the dead angle a smaller danger. We'll never be able to turn them off completely. I mentioned the numbers to you before: In 2017, three people were killed by heavy trucks – of a total of 52 in truck accidents – and every person who is harmed is one too much. When it comes to children, it is particularly tragic. I'm trying to do everything I can to fight this danger. I would also like to introduce a commitment, but we are a member of the European Union and, due to the European type-approvals, we cannot allow a vehicle in Austria unilaterally different from in other countries. We can make driving bans, we can do this, and that is, driving bans for entire districts, as suggested by Mrs Vassilakou – that is the one possibility – or just driving bans and legal bidders for those intersections that pose a danger. We have opted for this route, and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6318	I can warmly welcome the students of the Bundesrealgymnasium Tulln to us at the Hohe Haus. – Welcome! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6349	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! I admit that the last few weeks have not been easy because, as he has just described, the Federal Minister is being denounced in the public. It has also happened to me that people want to address me or write me on it and, so to speak, make me personally liable for any accident. This does not leave one, especially as a family father, untouched. At this point I ask everyone to note that we have only one point in mind: to contribute to ensuring that the roads are as safe as possible, especially for our children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I would also like to ask you to have an objective discussion here, and, Mr Federal Minister, I have to say that I have to object: Mrs Rendi-Wagner's speech was quiet, but she was not influenced to make such proposals in this regard, except to say that if we do not now immediately decide on the mandatory side-by-side assistants, then we are endangering the safety of children. – I tell you why, in my view, this is not a matter of fact: It would be a pretence of false facts, it was said that we would mediate that after the introduction of this turn-off assistant, all children would be 100% safe, and, ladies and gentlemen, that would not be the case. I also ask you not to communicate this in this way, because you are a source of hope – as I said, even if we decided today, it would happen at a time when the systems have not yet matured in form. The Federal Minister has just mentioned it: It is not true that we did not have an exchange with practitioners in advance – the MA 48 of the city of Vienna was mentioned. If a city councillor also publicly acknowledges that these systems do not yet guarantee the 100% certainty that, on the contrary, they are still systems that may lead to their being ignored because they are constantly attacking, then as legislators it would not be responsible to decide now that we are making mandatory use of the systems currently available. This has nothing to do with whether it entails costs or not; this is another discussion. I would also like to ask that we refrain from saying that we judge whether the safety of children is worth something or not; rather, it is a matter of finding an objectively justified solution. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am already very surprised; probably at the moment the opposition, at least in the current situation, for colleagues Lightenfried and for colleagues Stöger is more pleasant than if you are in government responsibility. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... material arguments...!]] As a Federal Minister, you have introduced a good project, whose results we, as Mr Hofer mentioned, will hopefully soon experience. But no one, not the Minister of State, shows with his finger on his predecessors in this discussion and assumes that anyone would not have done anything. [[Abg. Deimek: This is a shame for the SPÖ, you can say!]] On the other hand, this happens very well in the public debate. That's the difference. The second difference, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have just presented a package of measures which we can implement relatively quickly. Please, what measure is more intense at present than that of depressing dangerous intersections in such a way that either, as the Minister has already outlined, one takes appropriate safety infrastructure measures, such as the suspension of mirrors or the installation of protection routes, or imposes a right-wing bid, so that the truck can no longer turn right at the dead angle. This is the sharpest measure we can take immediately, and brings at least as much as abduction assistants et cetera, since they do not prevent the right turn. I would ask you to take this seriously and to go this way with us so that we can immediately decide on measures that make the roads a bit safer. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To conclude: Those who claim that we use the European Union as an excuse because we do not implement it at present are often also those who accuse us that we do not take Europe seriously in the form or that we are fighting against European values. I'll tell you one thing: When, if not in this context, would it be right for us to take immediate action on the one hand and put pressure on the other at the European level? – This is what happens so that we can decide together as quickly as possible on the introduction of turn-off assistants in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6416	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6438	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[Call the FPÖ:Player!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Pressing my thumbs, the Minister of Transport has told me to those children who have lost their school friend through a truck accident. I think the children have pressed the thumbs, but I think that there is too little on this thumbprint. We have a decade of transport policy behind us, which was shaped by two principles: Ecology and transport safety. These were the principles of all the Social Democratic Transport Ministers. And that's what's gotten hold of. 2007: 691 dead on the road, 2017: 414, and 2018 – reworked –: 400. This is what consistent transport safety policy can achieve. In 2017, together with the Austrian People's Party, we launched a road safety programme that is likely to have to look for the same thing, which included more than 100 individual measures, such as the extension of the test driver's license, alcolocks and many other things, including the test trial Mobileye. 15 trucks and buses have tested an abbot assistant; the attempt started at the beginning of 2017, and the plan was to end the attempt at the beginning of 2018 and come into implementation. Mr Verkehrsminister, you said it was now a few weeks later. – It's a little more than a few weeks later. [[Abg. Rosary: What are some weeks?]] – Well, a year and a few weeks are more than a few weeks, Mr. Cot. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Rosary.]] Nothing has happened since 2018, and I think that is too little. Every year in Austria, between 10 and 14 people die especially in such accidents, and it is the duty of politics to do everything to save human life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Human life, ladies and gentlemen, must be more important than other interests, also more important than economic and freight lobby interests. [[Abg. Mölzer: You change political change on your back...!]] I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this year so little has happened; and the solution will not be – although this is certainly an ambitious project – to set up mirrors at every dangerous crossing. It will not be done with any post-schooling, nor does it make sense to overwhelm responsibility for the drivers. Austria is a technology country, ladies and gentlemen, and the solution must be a technological one, as soon as possible. That's what to do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is also possible under European law. You yourself said Mr. Minister that driving bans were possible. – Well, why not not ban trucks that don't have this equipment, where the communities think it makes sense? Why should there be no authorisation for bans in the road traffic regulations? That would be the simplest European-law solution, but it will not come. Mr Minister, you have to explain why this is not coming! I think that's something that can be done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have a common goal. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The common goal is to save human lives. The common goal, however, is also to be honest. And if an Austrian newspaper writes that there has been a meeting with the industrial lobby and the Spring lobby, which has already been debated, what is coming before this summit, then I would be interested if that were true, Mr. Minister, because we must honestly ensure that fewer people die on Austria's streets. [[Keeping the current issue of the “Falter” in height, on whose title sheet under the heading “Der Hypochler” Federal Minister Hofer is depicted]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Serious Leaf!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is really the most serious leaf!]] This is a joint effort, estimated Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that this should be the case, I would ask you to support the joint request made by JETZT, NEOS and Social Democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6557	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6579	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! We had one a few weeks ago. This is the case with a tragic death penalty. A nine-year-old boy on his way to his folk school became victims of a fatal traffic accident – an incident that causes all of us, especially as a triple family father, to take a breath. Of course, the first question is: Would this tragic accident have been prevented? Who is to blame for this painful death? In view of the events, can we at least ensure that children will be given the best possible protection in the future or that such a fate will be spared? – These thoughts, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, one to all of us, not least because we here in the House see it as our duty, especially to preserve the weakest in our society, our children, from damage and to guarantee them security. Because we are aware of this responsibility, our transport minister Norbert Hofer immediately called a safety summit during his mission to Japan so that we can start without delay the question of what immediate action we can take to prevent such accidents in the future. The safety summit last Tuesday was preceded by many discussions with technicians, lawyers, experts from the ministry, the economy, as well as employee representatives. In the end, some 70 experts discussed the possibilities we have to address this problem. Ladies and gentlemen! At this summit, one thing was clear: According to the experts, there is currently no clear solution to the problem, but there are only short-, medium- and long-term measures that we can put in this area. The introduction – the Federal Minister mentioned it earlier – of the Trixi mirror, the all-round view mirror is a measure that we can implement immediately and can thus elucidate risky intersections for all vehicles and all road users. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, with regard to the introduction of the electronic turn-off assistant, we depend on the support of the European Union. Only it can provide us with the technical specifications for how such a system must work in the future in order not to contradict the proposed European solutions – that is because we want to avoid quickly introducing something that we need to refit very, very much money in a short time. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing is perfectly clear, and the Federal Minister has said that quite clearly: The Europe-wide implementation process, in which implementation is planned by 2022 and 2024 respectively, takes us too long and therefore needs to be greatly accelerated. And Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you know very well that we have to vote with Europe on this issue, you cannot simply sweep it off the table. Of us in Austria, there is a clear commitment to becoming a First Mover in the introduction of these turn-off assistants. This is clear to us: We also want to coordinate with the EU in order to achieve a Europe-wide commitment of this assistant. Some people here in the house, however, obviously are pursuing other, against this tragic background shabby goals. If, after the presentation of our solutions, the catalogue of measures, Minister Hofer is accused of dancing after the pipe of lobbyists and of being guilty of any other accident in which a child is ill, then this is not only tasteless, but it also lacks yeg- The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive This is not an appropriate way to discuss these issues. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With all the tragedy and brilliance, we should be able here in the house to approach and implement ourselves quickly at an appropriate level of an objective and feasible solution. Political interruptions and half-truths do not bring us back a single child who has been hurt. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] So let us all work together on a solution, let us talk to our group colleagues in the European Parliament to achieve implementation of the assistants – and this is really quick, to protect our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6669	Club-wife Meinl-Reisinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6690	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is for a politician to always talk to a politician about a subject when a sad occasion has gone ahead and one refers to it a certain – although not close – one. That is why I did not originally want to speak on this subject, I say quite openly. The reason why I do, however, is that I am honestly disappointed about the results of the summit last week and I am rather outrageous about the deportation of responsibility in Brussels, which I have just heard about. I didn't know Henry well, I saw him once, and it wasn't supposed to make a difference either, because every child who dies in road traffic, every dead person is a dead person too much. You may also forgive me for being a mother of children of the same age; as a mother, who together with her husband on the occasion of the school entrance to the gymnasium is asking the question: What do I tell the child, which school way to go? The question then arises as follows: There's a safety road where there's a right-hand picker where the cars are usually too fast. I'll tell the child: Go there, of course you always have to look!Unknown term type: "%s".? But I also know that you can rely a little on the fact that it's safe on the protection route. Or I tell the child: Don't go on the way, you have to be careful anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? I won't say that, but you understand the dilemma in which you're a parent. We know that there is a technical possibility, even if it is not yet mature and perfect, even if, in my opinion, it is not an argument, even if it is – forgives me, Mr Minister, that is not an argument – once misappropriated or misappropriated twice. It's better, it's once too often misappropriating and makes peeps as once too little. What is this argument? I can't understand. Excuse me, I just can't understand! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Plessl.]] I mean, you want to allow autonomous driving in five years and explain that once too much beepse it. I don't understand! [[Federal Minister Hofer: In five years, how do you get to five years?]] – Well, but you want to allow autonomous driving in a foreseeable period of time. [[Federal Minister Hofer: 2030!]] What really shocks me is this excuse in Europe: We would like to, but a national single entrance is not possible. – Mr Minister, this is simply false, and you know that! This is a move away from responsibility in Brussels; what your group is very happy to do, but I really think it is unreasonable in this debate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You can do this with a corresponding transitional period, you can change the STVO to allow driving bans. Of course, you cannot prevent the approval of trucks that are not equipped with them, but no one speaks of them; there are other legal possibilities. There is the possibility of acting as ministers at European level; there would have been this possibility already within the framework of the Austrian Presidency. The European Parliament has already expressed its support for the rapid introduction of this. There are also technical possibilities that are mature enough. – So here I actually hear excuses and a shift from responsibility, and this result actually leaves me with no problem. [[Abg. Deimek: What is... Quickway?]] I'd like to say one thing in advance: The statement that you are personally responsible for the death of any other accident child is under any - - Sau is not said; so I don't think it is okay, really not okay. [[Abg. Rosary: Under every criticism!]] By the way, it didn't come out of this house, I think, but I really have to say: You don't. However, the question as to how much you are bent in front of a lobby, you have to let yourself down, because as long as you – and I say this very carefully now – do not reveal the costs of the election campaign and your donors, this question remains in the room. [[Abg. Belakovich: Say the boss...!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6810	Member of the Cox Committee has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, People in front of the screens! Minister! In the meantime, it has come across very clearly that you do not want a mandatory abduction assistant, almost 73 000 Austrians already want it. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Rosary: So you can have such Freud’s listeners!]] The VCÖ, the Board of Trustees for Transport Safety, the ÖAMTC and many others want to do so. [[Call:... Allegations! Who says we don't want to?]] More and more countries and cities want this. London shows that not only does one want to do that, but one also starts to implement it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, NEOS and our group want to do so, and that is why there is also a joint request here. The long-term studies from your home say so far: Yes, abrasion assistants with sensors work, truck controllers are more cautious – so far. You still don't want a mandatory turn-off assistant. You want a package of measures according to which all seem to be responsible for increased road safety except you: [[Abg. Rosary: We don't want to, but that has to do with your party!]] Communities can check and make cross-borders safer, children should learn to move more securely, and the EU should submit the rules. You already make an advertisement campaign – you have announced that – but others are responsible for the rest. Their argument against the mandatory turn-off assistants and the corresponding package of measures find industrial associations and WKO super, so great that the industrial association already knew the package before the safety summit took place. – Very strange! What role does the Fachterlobby play in this whole topic and how does it play in your No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Minister, when it comes to innovation and digitization, I hear from you again and again that Austria has to be number one, we have to become a digital nation, we have to open up to the digital 9 to be frontrunner about 5G – if we are already at anglicisms: Yes, we can! –; but especially when you decide on mandatory turn-off assistants, you get on the technology brake. I think that's what it says: Yes, we can! because, as colleagues from the FPÖ mentioned earlier, it is about being First Mover on this topic. Being first mover concerns not only what is in the future, but what happens in the present. That also means retrofitting the trucks that are already on Austria's roads, and that means: now! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] What I have heard of you very often and still hear is that the technology is not mature – point. Especially in this context, I would like to hear more about the front runner spirit from you, as I miss the front runner spirit I otherwise perceive very strongly in the other areas with you. Mr Minister, I would really like you to listen less to lobbyists. Listen to citizens, these are also those who have brought you to sit here and who have given you a great responsibility! Listen to independent experts, refer to facts, learn from the best, then you also have me on your side; then besides Austria as a digital country number one there is also a stockerl square inside, namely Austria as number one in traffic safety, especially for children! [[Keeping a table with the label “Austria #1 in the case of road safety for children”]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6917	Mrs Pfurtscheller has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6939	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the screens! I assume that those people who are most affected by this terrible accident – the little boy's family and the initiators of the petition – are watching today, and therefore I would like to take the opportunity to express my regret at this terrible accident and thank the initiators of the petition for their commitment. – We thank you for being able to discuss this so important issue today in every way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to refer briefly to the statements made by my previous speakers and to those of the Lord of Light. It is almost inconceivable that you manage in three speeches to narrow this so important topic to just one aspect, namely the introduction of the turn-off assistant. They assume that there are no other ways at present to prevent accidents, and that is simply false. [[OIA and FPÖ.]] Mr Hofer has explained in detail why the delivery assistant cannot be introduced immediately, and above all he has explained all the ten points that are now to be implemented and which will, of course, also contribute to road safety. You're pretending not to talk about it at all. The three of you have not entered a single point, and I honestly think that is quite bad and quite poor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] To assume – in common with FPÖ and ÖVP – that we would be dependent on the economic and freight lobby is so infamble; I want to reject that. [[Abg. Mile-Risinger: Then leave your donors open! That is why there is transparency!]] We are equally interested in the fact that as few people as possible are harming traffic, we have always supported the SPÖ Ministers in this respect, and nothing has changed. Of course, it hurts us just as much as everyone else, and we will not tire of doing everything we can to increase safety in traffic and harm fewer people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would also like to relativize what Mr Leichtfried said: Yes, he set up this working group, the pilot project All-round vision in road transport in 2017; this can and should also be done for him. However, Minister Hofer has explained quite precisely why this working group is not yet finished, because aspects that were not expected at the beginning – that is the only reason – and certainly not because any of us have taken away the work of this group. Please note! It cannot be that you are constantly acting here with half-truths and ignoring what we will do and that we will strive to ensure or improve road safety in terms of turning right. I would like to comment briefly on these ten points because they have not been mentioned by my previous speakers: We will put in place infrastructure measures to make dangerous intersections safer, we will change the StMOs so that communities can make more secure crossings and can be distinguished at these intersections between cars and trucks, the Austrian Transport Safety Fund initiates a project, worth EUR 1 million, in the Transport Safety Advisory Board, the truck safety will be focused on, truck drivers should be trained and re-trained – for this the Federation will take a sum of EUR 5 million into its hands. Furthermore, the Asfinag parking spaces are to be equipped in such a way that trucks can properly align their mirrors there, and the gas station operators are also being talked about so that these works can be carried out. There should be awareness-raising measures for children and older people, for example, through our present session, and there should be an information campaign, there should be the results of the working group on road traffic, when they are present, and of course the pressure on the EU will continue to be increased.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6991	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7007	I would also like to ask all Members who are now sending themselves to the European Parliament, as well as Mr Leichtfried, who certainly has the best contacts with the European Parliament, to support us in this regard. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7034	I can welcome the school group of the school group Unterwaltersdorf quite cordially to us at the Hohe Haus. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Stöger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7066	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Security is something you can never reach a hundred percent, but you can learn to deal with the risk and take measures to reduce the risk. One of the key tasks of a transport minister is to reduce risks. Mr Leichtfried has already mentioned this: Social Democratic Transport Ministers have always tried to reduce risks, especially in connection with transport measures, and to make Austrian transport safe. [[Abg. Deimek: That's not true, you know! You know that about the railway! That's where you've ignored it!]] Now we have experienced a turnaround; I am saying this very clearly. You're dealing with a different kind of risk in road transport. The Minister then thinks that he can minimize the risk by allowing him on the motorway 140 km/h. Is that credible? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Are you credible?]] The Minister therefore thinks that he should minimise the risk by increasing the maximum permitted speed of trucks, including at night. Is that credible? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: How credible are Red Transport Ministers...?]] The Minister for Transport agrees to allow red turn-offs. Quite honest: Is that credible in terms of risk minimisation? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Höbart: If a Social Democratic speaks of credibility, that is the square of the circle!]] If I look at the measures we are discussing here, I think there is something to this: The Minister of the Federal Government has made a decision on the proposals made by the city of Vienna – it was not my party colleague who meant that one should be able to decide in the regions that the city should be able to decide whether to make general bidders or not – that is very critical, he says no. [[Federal Minister Hofer: Not abbot! Don't turn it off!]] It would be important for a city. I also think it is important to make sure that in Austria you go ahead and forward. [[Abg. Deimek: Ah yes, now! When are you pre-pressed?]] The Minister is discussing technical models, he talked for 18 minutes about what the EU can or cannot do, and the only technology he thinks can do in this regard is the mirror. There has been this for 5,000 years, which is a very old technology – but he is also a technology minister. [[Abg. Schimanek: Well, not for 5,000 years!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:Unbearable!]] In every modern middle class car there are assistants, support systems to see all around. When you drive back and park, you get a nice picture in a middle class car and see if you drive or not. Similar things could be done in the truck – without it becoming an assistance system at once – so that the truck driver can see it. It's okay with the car. Why shouldn't it be possible with the truck? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A technology minister would deal with how Austrian companies can implement this technology. [[Abg. Deimek: He would invent himself in Windseaile!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that risks should be consistently minimized and that measures should be taken in road transport to minimise risks. By the way: The Minister said that we could not do it as in London, because they only start from 12 tonnes. I could imagine transferring the London model to us, you can do that quickly. Secondly, there is no difference in the truck between 7.5 and 12 tonnes, the driver cabins are all the same. There's something you can do. Thirdly, One could – and this is also a requirement – also allow obliged carers to drive along in the risk areas and put in place all the measures that those persons – representatives of the ÖAMTC, the trade unions – who participated in the safety summit. The mandatory passenger ride would be a measure. Mr Federal Minister, this is about minimizing the risk, and it is to be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, one more thing: You are the one who laments the European Union. When it comes to the question of taking away something from children, you have dealt with European law very easily, and that is not the case at all. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7230	Federal Minister Hofer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7251	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have to clear up with a manifest misunderstanding. Mr Stöger said that we would not allow legal bidders in the cities. Please, that was exactly what I tried to make clear earlier: that by changing the StVO we are now implementing these legal bidders. So the opposite of what you said is true. That's exactly what we're doing, and that's why I don't understand your statement. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You say you want to implement the London model. – Yes, God forbid, that is exactly what would not lead to any improvement with us now! This means that from 26.10.2020, vehicles of class N3, which have no star, are no longer allowed to enter Greater London. Do you know how to get a better vehicle then? – By mounting a mirror. This is the London model. The London model, from 26.10.2024, i.e. only after the deadline of the European Union, states that all assistance systems must be introduced. The London model would therefore be a real deterioration, as the European Union is much further away. I warn you to introduce the London model, it makes us worse. You've addressed the monitoring systems. You said: Why can you have a clear view of cars and why is it not for trucks? [[Abg. Vogl: This is not a debate!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Four lost years in the Ministry of Transport!]] Mr Stöger, I now ask you: Are these cameras mandatory for vehicle registration at EU level? – Yes, of course, it is also permissible for trucks – – not exactly! – but it is not mandatory. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Vogl: But permitted!]] [[Abg. Kucharovich: That's the point!]] [[Abg. Vogl: Yes, exactly!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: He doesn't understand that!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Eben!]] That's what I explained: We can't. I would really like to do that, but we cannot prescribe it by law, so the comparison with the cars is not good, because many cars are not equipped with these camera systems. Some trucks are equipped with it, others are not. Then another 60 km/h: Mr Stöger, 60 km/h at night are a safety risk because there can be accidents. [[In the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Federal Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, ……]] If you are in Nights with a car on the highway and meet a truck driving 60 km/h, this is a safety risk. In addition, trucks consume 60 km/h more than 70 km/h, because gearboxes and motors are not tuned to 60 km/h; therefore we will increase the maximum speed for trucks at night to 70 km/h. It's safer and it's better for the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7393	Mr Kumpitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7414	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! Yes, there's nothing worse for parents than to find out that their child was killed in a traffic accident. Thus, for the parents of the nine-year-old boy, who was captured and killed by a truck on the way to school at the end of January, a world must have collapsed. We all ask ourselves the question: Would this disaster have been prevented? Of course, you're trying to find a solution quickly. If Mr Leichtfried and Mrs Club boss Rendi-Wagner, as they have done, ask the Minister to enforce the mandatory equipment of trucks with electronic assistance systems immediately, then this will have a small side-effect, because in recent years the number of seriously injured people has increased particularly in connection with the bending. [[Abg. Plessl: What numbers do you have there?]] I therefore wonder why Mr Leichtfried, who was still a minister of transport a little over a year ago, did not even ask for the introduction of this abduction assistant. Of course, there is a question of morality or ethics that club chief Rendi-Wagner tried, but only apparently, for there were apparently serious reasons that Mr Leichtfried did not do this because either the technical conditions or the legal conditions were not there. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But one thing I'm saying: The legitimate fears of the parents about their children in order to make political use of road safety, as in this case and knowingly demand something that is not legally possible, that is really tasteless. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scherak:... but from the FPÖ a bizarre announcement!]] One thing you need to know: The media commotion caused by the fatal traffic accident is only the tip of an iceberg of many serious accidents in recent years. The causes of these accidents are mostly due to a lack of attention and a lack of awareness of danger, both of pedestrians and of drivers. Unfortunately, I myself often had the sad duty to investigate the cause of the accident in the event of traffic accidents with fatal accidents. Again and again the result was that the reasons for the fatal accidents have been lack of attention, lack of awareness of danger or ease in transport. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not so easy to say: Mr Minister, do everything! because then you have to ask: Did the SPÖ ministers do everything? Have you even recognized this problem that a development has taken place, which has led to pedestrians and cyclists in the road sector in particular often moving lightly? The author of a reader’s letter in the “Krone” wrote very well: ‘Since the zebra strip has been declared a guarantee certificate, one remains on the telephone or with others discussing [...], women with [...] infants and [...] Baby carriages [...] wipe “on the mobile phone” while crossing the road. – But the need to pay attention to traffic, to cross the road with green light, seems to be forgotten in this seemingly deceptive safety. [[Abg. Vogl: They're guilty anyway, aren't they? Are the children themselves guilty?]] I am therefore saying that we are all calling on each other to be a model for children. What should children learn when they see that we ourselves are not acting in such a way that we also make calls and perhaps run over the crossroads at red? – We all have to start with ourselves, then we can contribute to greater road safety. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing is clear: Event legislation – and it is similar here – is not a quick shot in one direction, because this always involves wrong decisions and no objective view. I am sure that, as soon as possible, our Minister of Transport will also ensure the introduction of this turn-off assistant and do everything to make traffic safer on our roads.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7496	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7517	Mr President. High house! Dear visitors to the gallery! I believe that what has been very well seen in this debate is that we have at least one thing, and that is the concern about the youngest in road transport. That is quite a positive thing, and this should also be pointed out in this debate. In addition, I believe it is also important to say why we are holding this debate here today and what the trigger is for it. This is, of course, the tragic accident that has happened, but also the fact that many citizens have said: We have a concern! and have risen up and started an initiative. This too must be said and thanked by the citizens, who set a clear mark and give us a mandate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The Minister has derived from holding a truck safety summit on 19.2. To this end, I would like to say that I thought this was an important measure and I also felt it was good. Mrs Pfurtscheller mentioned earlier that none of us say that the measures that are being prepared are also good: Yes, I think there are also some measures that are very useful. Of course, as Mr Kumpitsch has just said, we can now ask the question: Why didn't this happen earlier? Making yourself and saying that the SPÖ ministers are the evil ones, because they did not respond earlier, is of course very simple. We are here and now and we need to learn the lessons now and should now act as Parliament in carrying out our tasks and deduce measures. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have also mentioned it at the summit: I think it is essential to look at the European level as well. That does not mean that we do not have our own By the way, I am of different opinion on the subject of London's model; I may come to speak shortly afterwards – but, of course, the issue at European level is also very important. The question arises why the Federal Government, especially if there has been a study that has been pursued since 2017, did not ask within the framework of the Presidency of the Council whether there could be some progress, or what measures are now being taken to achieve a solution before 2022 and before 2024. I think it was Mr Hafenecker who said: Well, we can't introduce new things now, because then all of this has to be wrapped back! – The EU’s 2022 specifications refer to new types of vehicles, those for 2024 for newly approved trucks; therefore, all currently approved and approved are not affected. If you have put all these conversion costs here as an argument: That's just not true. Accordingly, we have tabled a joint proposal with the SPÖ and with JETZT in order to make it clear that it is necessary to take rapid action and that it is also necessary to launch action at European level. We must not forget that every second truck that travels in Austria – there are many on the way through, that is, I am aware, but still – has no flag, so there is no Austrian mark, and of course this problem does not stop at the border for us. I also believe that, as Europeans, it must be a question for us, as is the case with children and young people in road transport in our European neighbours. We all travel on holiday et cetera, so it is not that the world ends with us at the Austrian borders, as it is repeatedly presented; hence, it is important to think even greater than the national level. You mentioned the example of London and said: We can't do that, and that's a bad project because they're only 2024! – What prevents us from setting up a similar project in Austria, with doors that are glassed down to the bottom, and, if that is not possible, if this all-round view is not guaranteed to take action for assistants? What prevents us from introducing such a thing and not just setting the deadline in 2024 – which I think is too little ambitious – but earlier? You did not answer this question. I do not see any obstacle here and, accordingly, the London model could be used as a model and simply put in place earlier measures. At the end of the day, it is also not unimportant that there is a professional group on which, I believe, has not yet been spoken, and these are the 80 000 truck drivers that we have in Austria, some of which are of course also on the road with a very ungood feeling. Some have reported to me, I have received some emails from them in which they say: Yes, we feel insecure too, we now have an ungood feeling when we turn right! – We also need to highlight this, and we also need to think about it by taking such measures, because it is also about having a better sense of traffic. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is therefore, I believe, essential that we act quickly here, that we take rapid action here and do not move on the island of Blessed Ones and say: No, everything that lies behind our borders is not our issue, that we also take the European level here and that you are also introducing measures at European level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7598	No one has made any mention of this, so the debate is closed. [[10:26:42]] Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7620	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. [[Abg. Easy: To the Rules of Procedure – upon receipt of the sitting!]] The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7919	I may announce that in the Presidential we agreed that in the bank series please do not eat – that does not make a good picture – and we have agreed that water will be placed in the back of the hall so that it can be taken into account. However, I would ask you not to take the glasses and cups into the bank series anymore. I forgot to put it right at the beginning. This is an agreement of the President-in-Office, so I would ask for it in peace. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] – An agreement of the President. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7944	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 and 6 to 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7965	An agreement was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, the day block time is 8 ‘Vienna hours’. The speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 148, for the SPÖ and for the FPÖ each 132 as well as for NEOS and NOW per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda for 22 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall be able to vote on it immediately. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Thank you, that is unanimously accepted. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8004	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 2929/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “Real-mighty discharge offensive instead of show policy and broken election promises!” In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2363/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8026	Furthermore, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, I can tell you that there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 2363/AB to Question 2379/J by Mr Zinggl, colleagues on the “testing of the German Government’s obligation to act” by the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and Media. As the urgent debate on a written question was called for today's sitting, the brief debate will take place following the urgent debate. Well, before we get into the agenda, there's a word on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8058	Mr President, you referred to the President-in-Office, I do. I asked in the presidency for a second day to be held, and after a long debate I agreed to give up on this second day. In particular, I have had two main reasons to do so. One of these reasons was that the government parties have assured that the application for the Car Friday will be available on Monday at the latest. Mr President, it is unheard of. This is a very complicated request, there are five pages of the legislative text, and this request came yesterday at 23.54 p.m. It is unacceptable, Mr President, to go over this House in this way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] If you can't even rely on the commitments of the club people in this house again, I wonder what these promises are worth And what this Parliament is worth to the government parties at all. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] To delete a holiday, to remove replacements, and that with a request 5 minutes before midnight, that is not possible. I call on you to take this item from the agenda, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8108	We are now going into the agenda. [[10:31:54]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Joint Report of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media on the EU Annual Perspective 2019 pursuant to Article 23f(2) B-VG (III-247/505 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8136	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This is not the case, Mr President.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's not how it is!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Since there has been no oral reporting, I can give the floor to honourable Members. [[Abg. Easy: Mr President, I should like to speak again.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Flicky behavior! That's a fluffy behavior! Take note of this!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:The artificial indignation...!]] [[Abg. Höbart: The Jarolim...!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Jarolim!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Justify yourself!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart:... cooperative in Vienna!]] Can you calm down, Mr Jarolim? Yeah? – Mr Klubobmann has spoken.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8313	Mr President. What you did there was now partial, unheard of and not worthy of a President of this House. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and JETZT, as well as Neos representatives.]] I now ask you to interrupt the session and that we discuss it in a short-term, because that is not how it is done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8346	Mr Rosenkranz has been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8368	On Mr Leichtfried's business contribution: It's very difficult to bear what's being spread by you here. Let's start with the basic things you said. Yes, it is right – with this I start – that we have announced that we will make a day-care solution. As you have seen, the concern was that the churches should be integrated, and the corresponding things would be delayed. That's why we found a solution on Tuesday. It was clear to us that she'll come on Tuesday. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have said, of course, that we want to make it much sooner, but it has slowed down. One can see, however, what social democracy is now complaining about, five pages of the legislative text – one, two, three and one paragraph – behind are explanations, so no longer the text of the law. [[leafing in a document]] I think you're not quite on the right side anymore; and these are small paragraphs. Unfortunately, I have to take note of God: We would have liked it earlier if the agreement with the interested transport groups, as it is so beautiful, had not taken so long with the churches. That was a concern for us to reach a broad consensus. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Becher and Knes.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You may not want to do that, but I have to say one thing – and that is the state of social democracy –: You can't even read simple legal texts!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8467	Take back the word nonsense! I think sometime, quite honestly, I'll give you a call for order. Calm down now! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to draw your attention to this: Keep at least the dignity of this house! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Ah-rufe and contradiction at the SPÖ.]] Mr Scherak, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8518	Two things are important to me in this context: First of all, I think it is relevant if, in the presidency, one agrees on something that one tries to comply with these commitments, and does so. We have agreed, in a previous President, that this should only be the exception, so short-term amendments will be submitted, and I believe that it is also a matter of principle as regards how we act as Parliament. If we get this amendment - and yes, he may only have four pages, Mr Rosenkranz - at 23.55 p.m., I believe that there are four spelling errors in the four pages - the question is how to take this seriously as a Parliament, and that is the point behind it. [[Abg. Rosary: Three pages!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] And yes, of course, it's all right from the Rules of Procedure, but it's the question of how we are seriously trying to make laws here, and that's just not the right way to do it right now. I would really ask you to accept this as President and, if Mr Leichfried here calls on you to take this from the agenda, that at least in some way you refer to it and say how you deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8567	Mr Zinggl has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8591	First of all, I'm surprised you didn't register my word. I've been showing up for half an eternity – but please, you don't have to look everywhere, I understand – but regardless of it: I was in the presidential, you were in the presidential, you heard what I heard, there was an agreement in the direction. Mr Leichtfried withdrew his request for a second plenary day, and we all know that we were assured that there was this bill on Monday at the latest. I am surprised, Mr President, that you do not think that: They shall not take a position. This is already the second time that you simply ignore the fact that club members are speaking to the Rules of Procedure and are somehow putting you in a position to party, and you do not justify that you are not a witness in a matter that concerns us all, that you are now reading something else at the moment I talk to you. I think that it is not polite and that it is not all right for Mr Leichtfried to demand a stand-up presidial, which I now also demand, and you just leave us to the left – or to the right, depending on how you see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8624	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger has spoken on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8649	Point one: I am also Klubobmann, and I do not support Mr Sobotka at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Secondly, If we are already reading, I read the extract of the President's Protocol, among other things, it says: “In this context, Klubobmann secures Dr. Rosenkranz on demand from club chairperson Stv. May. It is easy to see that the amendment concerning the day-to-day arrangements applies to all political groups on Monday, 25. February 2019, but not later than Tuesday, 26. February 2019, will be transmitted.” – This is in the Presidential Protocol. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Look, look, look!]] [[Abg. Knes: 5 minutes before midnight!]] Furthermore, it is us - - – I don't know, can you even listen? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But with you in the party, it's not a miracle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It was particularly important to the government groups that an agreement be reached with the Catholic Church and with the Protestant Church on this issue of Good Friday, and there were intensive discussions yesterday, and as you know, the Conference of Bishops also welcomed this arrangement. That is why it lasted until the evening hours until the text of the law was finished at the end of the day. We always try to transmit the texts as soon as possible, but it is also important for us to discuss this story well with the organisations concerned – in that case the church representatives – and therefore I see no reason for us to change something there. What we can do – and we can discuss this, Mr President – is that we are dealing with this today at the end of the agenda. That's, I think, a possibility. Then you still have all day to read through these few pages and form an opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8755	Mr Klubobmann Rosenkranz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8780	I would add that on the day of the Presidential Conference, when it came to the Minutes, a whole new model was adopted on the part of the government groups, and the wording would have been based on this model. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This was changed in agreement, involving the Catholic and the Protestant Church, and it lasted until yesterday. You may also see this under the heading normative force of the Factic. But the proposal is to deal with this at the end of the meeting, to read it in advance, to obtain these hours. So you can make a proper picture. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Sorry! You are...! That's not the point!]] It is really not so difficult for politicians, for clubreferents and others, especially for the legal experts Wittmann and Jarolim to read this through. – If you read and make fewer calls, it might also be better. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not the point!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Then there's something else about it: In the former Presidential, between the club members – that is, with the club staff representatives, because Mrs Rendi-Wagner does not really come to the presidential meetings – it was concluded that the reserve day on Thursday is not being cancelled only because we wanted to reserve this day in order to be able to decide on a Brexit law in order to be able to respond to it. That was the only reason why we said we were leaving this reserve day. Then, in the last president or before, the club directors came: We absolutely want a second day! – You are so transparent with your strategy that is not coming up as just something!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8875	The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Leichtfried, is speaking once again. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8899	I would just like to clarify one thing if we are already entering the depths of the protocol: In the first version of the protocol, there was no sentence on Monday's subject. I then made a correction, which said that Mr Klubobmann Rosenkranz has assured that the draft will come on Monday. [[Abg. Rosary: If possible! If possible! Never was the talk of confidence!]] Tuesday has never been the speech, Mr President. [[Ah-Rufe and other calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Now I am trying to interrupt the session to discuss how to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8958	I should like to draw attention to the fact that there is no call for interruption. I will, however, be happy to comply with this request so that we can hold a short stand-alone presidial, and may ask them to me. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8990	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. I should like to explain again why I did not comment on the comments made by Klubobfrau representative Leichfried: I simply took note of this, but would also have made it quite clear that, due to the current debate – including in the media – I am of course interested in the fact that Parliament is conducting this debate in a timely manner. I would therefore not have taken the item on the agenda from the agenda. I will, of course, explain next time when it comes to responding to the comments of the clubmen and their alternates. I can now proceed with the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Joint Report of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media on the EU Annual Perspective 2019 in accordance with Article 23f(2) B-VG (III-247/505 of the Supplements). I should like to say once again that there has been no oral reporting. Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please. [[Abg. Rosary: Again for business treatment!]] Mr Rosenkranz on business treatment, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9032	Another thing. I have been informed of an interlocutory call, and I would ask the President-in-Office to check it in the minutes. Mr Jarolim would have made the following interlocutory call in your direction: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! . I ask you to let the minutes come and give a corresponding call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9075	So, now finally, Mr. Arbitrator is on it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9096	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure of the Austrian National Council actually provide that it is not necessary to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure if someone has already been given the floor but according to his speech. But I should have been right. [[Abg. Haider: They asked you to do it! Incredible!]] In democracy, however, it is common for one to observe the rules of the game and to live consensually. This is a problem facing Europe, but obviously also – if I look at the last half hour here in the House – in Austria. To live democracy also means to respect the rules of the game. It also means observing deadlines. It also means taking into account opinions, and especially in a judgment of the European Court of Justice, which refers to an amendment to the law – in the case of the Car Friday issue – in Austria, it would only have been cheap to make a proper assessment of the draft instead of presenting a draft at midnight. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Quite objectively: Unfortunately, if you do this constantly, it is so that at the end of the day democratic culture goes a long way. [[Call the ÖVP:Brexit!]] This is also an appeal to you, Mr President: As President of the National Council, they are actually responsible for ensuring that the Austrian Parliament can work efficiently, so that, when they look at it, the citizens also have the impression: Here we are working on the future of our country and we are not trying through trickery and midnight templates to simply whip through things, especially when they are at the disadvantage of the Austrians, because they are simply stolen and deleted by the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: The Chamber of Labour has complained! You laid the bomb yourself!]] There you can already see: A European court decides how to deal with this, and it is probably in accordance with European law, which the government has proposed for the Car Friday, but it is the worst variant, namely that everyone has less. This, of course, was not meant by the European Court of Justice. In fact, it meant that the other Austrians were equal to the evangelical. [[Call the FPÖ:No, that's not so bad! How do you know that?]] [[Abg. Steinacker: You are about to interpret the ECJ! This derivative is not inconceivable!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, I consider myself to be interpreting what a European court has said, because that is the task of politicians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But they measure one thing: You are determined to steal a holiday for the Austrians, and you are determined to steal the Evangelicals a holiday! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Shit!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Calm down!]] That is what you are considering, and this is a cryout injustice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Deimek: A naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: You stole!]] It's just so that it's made clear who's doing something in the house here. You're a cheap holiday thief! [[Abg. Deimek: The Party of Standers! You should hold back from stealing with the word!]] That's what you're doing: They're just taking people away the birthday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But now continue to the European Union, because the European Union is also at a difficult stage - - yes, but honestly: [[Call the FPÖ:But not only the European Union!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] How's it going? [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Yes, then let's stick to the subject and let's leave it! Let's stick to the subject! [[Abg. Hafenecker: Yes, let's stay with it!]] So it is: European Courts. By the way, to the appeal of the Chamber of Labour This implies that there is a contradiction of equality. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] The European Court of Justice shall: Making equality means that people who are not evangelical also have the right to free those who are not old-Catholic. [[Abg. Deimek: You don't believe seriously that an additional working day...!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and SPÖ]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign again]] [[Call the FPÖ: But it's not inside!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: No, you...! Incredible!]] - So, what are you doing? – They say: The best level of equality is if I take something away from everyone. [[Further call of the Abg. Steinacker.]] That is the principle of equality of government, and that is bad! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the FPÖ.]] We want everyone to have more, more leisure time and also a holiday more. That's our idea of society, and that's what you should write behind your ears! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9442	I warmly welcome the school group from Fürstenfeld. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9473	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God is the image that the Austrians have of this Federal Government, the exact opposite of what you have drawn, Mr. Schieder. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In fact, we should discuss the EU's annual forecast here in 2019. Of course, the Federal Government has responded to this judgment within a very short time. The Federal Government has included those who are the main victims – and there are still believers in this country – and today, in the early days, the Secretary General of the Conference of Bishops has confirmed to me that this solution is seen as a good solution. – So much on this subject. This is the decisive thing for me: that this federal government is creating good solutions, and the Friday solution is a good solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The challenges in Europe have grown, and with the challenges, of course, more will be done by this Federal Government. As the SPÖ's top candidate, you could have at least been able to deal with Europe a little, because the distance between the citizens and the European Union is anyway a great challenge, and the challenge for us – our common challenge! – is to inspire people in a positive contest for this European Union and not to make things worse. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stefan]] Remember: It was 45 percent in Austria last time who took part in the election, with our neighbours, when I looked towards the Czech Republic or Slovakia, it was 18 and 13 percent respectively. We must therefore do everything we can to change the image of this European Union so that people can also see and choose the added value of the European Union. Austria is well on its way. I was in Brussels last week with colleagues Krainer and Rossmann, where the so-called European Semester was concerned, and this is also true here in the annual forecast. [[Keeping a document in height]] Yes, almost half of the European Member States have received a blue letter stating that there are macroeconomic imbalances. Austria has received the opposite certificate. Austria is well on the go. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it is seen by the population! We do not make the Eurobarometer, the Eurobarometer has been made by the European Union for years. At the beginning of February, this Eurobarometer has produced a result for Austria, which we have never had: 77 percent of Austrians see the European Union as positive or neutral. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] The Commission concludes that: Why is there this result? . Because the Presidency, which we have concluded at the end of the year, is so positive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, no, that's because of you!]] We may have taken people's concerns very seriously earlier than others, especially as regards migration and where there is no doubt a need to rethink at European level. I would like to look briefly into the future. At the beginning of May, in Sibiu, Hermannstadt, Romania – Romania, President Juncker will now discuss in an informal Council with the Heads of State and Government how this European Union is to develop strategicly. This is the crucial point: How is this European Union to develop strategicly in this international competition? [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Federal Chancellor Kurz was with the US President last week, a week earlier in Japan and Korea. It is very important that we get away from this European navel show and see other regions as well. We are in competition there, but our chances are good because we have a strong economy here in Austria. It is all to be done so that this economic location Austria, but also Europe as a whole, remains strong as an economic factor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's what it's all about positioning yourself right here in early May. We have clearly defined in the government programme – and I quote this – that the EU should focus on the essential solutions. “We therefore want a European Union to address the major issues [...]. A strong Europe in this sense can guarantee stability, promote growth and secure peace." That's our starting point. We want a European Union that is strong. This Austrian government will also make its contribution here, will be a reliable partner to further develop this European Union – but in a positive sense, ladies and gentlemen – with a European Union that does not stop with the small things, but accepts itself by the great. These are issues of external border protection, migration and climate protection. Here we will work together with the European Union, and it would be beneficial if the opposition were to be constructive here too.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9563	The next item is Mrs Claudia Gamon. – Please
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9588	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! The project report on the EU topics of ministers and Federal Chancellors has been a little thin overall. The issue of the future of the European Union is discussed in ten lines. There are a lot of things that have already been figured out – but that is something that has now been put down. One important issue that I would like to focus on is the issue of disinformation and cybersecurity in the future of this report. Why do we need to talk about it now? – We are simply facing the reality that experts say it would not be surprising if the European elections were to lead to attempts at influence. That means it's really daily. There is now a European action plan against disinformation. Country offices are stopped to run a list of portals that spread fake news. It is in the interest of our democracy that we devote ourselves to this issue with the necessary seriousness and also the urgency it needs. Unfortunately, what the project report says about it has very little to do with it. This is because the copyright reform, the negotiations on the E-Privacy Regulation, the cookie regulations and so on are listed. Although all of this has something to do with the Internet, just because we bring these terms together in the right mix, it is far from a universal solution to any challenge that has anything to do with digitalization. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The issue of disinformation is also not about newspaper recipients or whatever, but about real, dangerous lying campaigns. It is about deception, the uncertainty of the population, and it is also about shaking confidence in our democracy, which affects all of us. I would just like to point out a few examples: these lies during the Brexit campaign, the campaign to prevent the name solution of Northern Macedonia, the concealment of the poison attack on Sergei Skripal and, of course, the disinformation that has always played a major role in the Ukraine conflict and continues to play. Russia has shown that it is possible through this method to directly influence our policies. If we do not do anything specific here, then our decision-making capacity and European independence in the last episode are absolutely in danger. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need to invest in the resilience of the population, promote media competence – and especially for children – and it is also about showing where lies are being spread. We clearly need a plan here to really address the issue of disinformation. We have submitted a request to this effect, which is in the Committee on the Interior, and we expect more commitment from the Federal Government on this issue here. Secondly, cybersecurity. The sustainability of the whole European Union also depends on its ability to defend itself against attacks on its values, institutions, infrastructure and citizens. However, this ability is also directly linked to the competitiveness of European technology companies. For example, we see this in the current debate on the expansion of 5G by Chinese suppliers. The market leader in mobile equipment in Europe, Huawei, is far more technologically superior to European competitors, and the Chinese provider can also offer much cheaper. Now, of course, there are concerns about what this could bring about. I think this is a legitimate debate. But if you talk about excluding the Chinese supplier completely, I don't think that's really practical, because that would mean we're giving up the important technology and buying higher costs. European States are now facing this dilemma: We can take the risk or not. But how did we even get to know that we do not have a competitive European provider in this area, if we consider it such a sensitive area? A Europe of survival and defence needs innovative companies – especially in the field of key technologies. At least I believe that we can decide what we prefer, or whether we have the opportunity to make a choice at all. ==References====External links== Bringing the century is also an issue, as is the subject of a reasonable common European immigration system for skilled workers, for key workers we need in European technology companies. These are all proposals that NEOS has also put on the table. This is particularly important at this time. These would be the issues on the future of the European Union, of which we believe we need to discuss them now. There are no ten lines in an EU project report. We have more expectations here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9648	Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurztzus has spoken. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9672	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the annual report for the European Union for the year 2019 will be discussed in Parliament, and in many areas I can agree with what has been said by the honourable Member. Gamon has just outlined as challenges for the year 2019 in the European Union. In general, it is likely that most of the challenges in the European Union are not necessarily domesticated in Europe, but are created because of our international environment. We have a situation in the USA, which has at least become more unpredictable for us in Europe, we have tensions with our great neighbours in the East – with Russia – who have even led to mutual sanctions. We have a very unstable neighborhood in the south of the European Union with partly warring conflicts and increasing terrorism, even though it has succeeded in fighting it very successfully in recent years. We have a new world political order with a first-class China, which will soon be the largest economy in the world. In this context, there is dis- not only on security issues, on sanctions, on dealing with each other at political level, but above all on economic issues and on free trade. Many of the challenges that concern us in the European Union this year are not only typical of the European Union, but are often triggered by our neighbours, the international environment. Generally speaking, it is also possible to say that the European Union has been too much caught up in the current crisis in recent years – with the Brexit, with the migration issue, with the financial crisis before. There was too little time for a discussion on the future of the European Union, and almost already a state of paralysis due to the crises and current challenges. In so far as – with this story in recent years, with these international challenges – I would say that the year 2019 and the following years will not be easy for the European Union. I nevertheless see 2019 as a great opportunity for us in Europe – a great opportunity because it will be a year of change. It is a year of elections to the European Parliament. A new Commission will be set up and, of course, a debate on the future orientation of the European Union will be held. I may first of all be able to make a plea on the European elections. I believe it is important that as many people as possible participate in this election. In these elections in Austria, we traditionally have a very, very low electoral participation compared to other EU countries, but compared to national councils, country councils or municipal council elections. I therefore very much hope that Europe will be able to re-establish this election in Europe, because participation by the population is very important for the reorientation of the European Union. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] As far as the Commission's re-constitution is concerned, I hope that we can manage this very complex process together. It will not make a beautiful picture for the people of Europe if we lose in conflict here. It is a complex process, it needs approval in the Council, but also in Parliament. There are different party families, there will be a gender balance and it will be necessary to illustrate the different regions of the European Union. So that's anything but a simple process. Nevertheless, I will do everything I can to make a contribution to ensure that the process takes place quickly and above all in a common sense, because I believe that a picture of the dispute in times of these international challenges would be absolutely wrong for the European Union. Thirdly, there will also be a debate on the reorientation of the European Union – linked to the elections and, of course, the recast of the Commission. As the Federal Government, we will strengthen a subsidiary European Union, i.e. a Europe that works more closely on major issues and at the same time takes back on issues where regions or Member States can choose very well on their own. Finally, it will be the year in which it is necessary to clarify Brexit. I would like to point out here again that I am clearly in favour of a postponing of Brexit, if there is no agreement by March. It makes absolutely no sense from my point of view to make a hard Brexit, so a no-deal scenario, even though no one really wants it. In this respect, if it fails to reach an agreement by March, we should agree with the United Kingdom on this. That we are giving ourselves more time to really prevent a hard Brexit. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition, the year 2019 is definitely one in which we can promote proactive topics: The European Union's financial performance and its design – the Multiannual Financial Framework – will be decided, and there will be a change in the Western Balkans. There will be a chance for us to work towards a more competitive Europe. All these are topics for which we are making ourselves strong this year. All in all, it will be a year of change and thus a year of opportunities for us in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9751	Mrs Petra Stegergelanget next floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9775	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Schieder, I must say that your speech at the beginning of the debate was significant once again. This item on the agenda is simply about the EU's progress report and you will remain in the previous item on the agenda once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This reminds me of your European policy in general. You'll be stuck there all the time. You stay stuck in your populist fear-maker-duration loop, where you always ask you about your press releases and other questions, always resort to the evil, evil rights and titulate us with all kinds of insults. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Just don't talk about the matter – that's your European policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this is significant for social democracy. In fact, social democracy is on a downward trend throughout Europe, simply because it no longer answers the problems of the 21st century. By contrast, we already provide this government. For example, the Multiannual Financial Framework, which will also be an important topic in 2019. This government has rightly criticised the fact that no one in Austria understands that we should pay more and, at the same time, the EU wishes to have an increase of 20 percent in administrative costs in its huge administrative system. This is certainly not the way we want to go. The EU should first save on its own system before requesting more net payers like Austria to register. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The report addresses many other important issues. Everything is de facto overlaid by the two most important issues that will come to us. This is, of course, Brexit and, on the other hand, the future strategic orientation of the European Union. As far as this strategic direction is concerned, I am particularly pleased that we finally have a reformer in the government with FPÖ, which has made sure that a new path is taken – a path from blind centralism in recent years towards greater subsidiarity, away from the distribution of refugees to more external border protection and away from the door-to-door policy towards a restrictive immigration policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Scherak: Go to the Öxit!]] One only remembers a few years ago when there was a red and black federal government that was in power when exactly a policy was pursued at European level, namely the policy of the least resistance. [[Abg. Lighten: Do you think Mr. Fuchs?]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you went to Europe and just took the view there. That was like the food issue: They went there, took the food – which can still have been salted, depleted or perhaps toxic – and tried to sell it to the Austrian population as a four-head menu. [[Abg. Lightness:... all Mr. Fuchs!]] [[Abg. Lightness:... Champagne!]] That was your European policy in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, this government, this FPÖ, is committed to a different course at European level. Our ministers like a Herbert Kickl, like an H.-C. We have not only managed to introduce a policy of reason at national level, no, we have also managed to achieve a rethinking process at European level. But this rethinking process is not enough. Whether there will actually be a change in the course at European level will only show up at the forthcoming European elections. At European level, this policy of reason must be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen. We want a subsidiary Europe of the independent nation states with a neutral Austria and no centralist superstate à la SPÖ or NEOS. The voters will also punish you for this idea, these visions of the future in the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9888	Next come Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e9906	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Britain has illustrated what can happen if our national politicians declare the European Union a scapegoat. Britain has also illustrated what can happen when politics divides society. [[Abg. Lightenness: How about us!]] The success of the European Union is constantly being nationalized. You can see this very well by the example of the plastic ban. In 2016, the European Parliament has already voted on the intention to ban plastic, and last year the Austrian government tried to sell us that it was its success. Failure is fast to push the European Union. Everything that goes wrong will be pushed to the European Union. It can't be. Great Britain has shown this well. Just remember the headlines in the daily newspapers just before the Brexitreferendum! We have tried to make the European Union responsible for everything that has gone wrong in this country – for poverty, for unemployment. Yesterday, in the Federal Minister's Committee Blümel tried to explain to me that it was the 2015 migration crisis, which is responsible for leaving the UK. Regardless of the fact that our Federal Government wants to make the migration crisis responsible for every issue, for everything that goes wrong, I would nevertheless like to say one more thing here: Migration and asylum are global challenges! We cannot solve these nationally! We must address them together in the European Union. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And it is part of this joint agreement that external border protection is properly equipped. This includes harmonising asylum and migration policies throughout the European Union, and this includes the fact that we are finally equipping the European Asylum Agency. However, the Council has not managed to reach an agreement, nor has it been able to finally move forward with this common European asylum system. Our Minister of the Interior did not agree to this, and that is why the whole thing has to be renegotiated. So we are far away from a common solution. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out briefly: If we really want to solve the problem of migration and asylum, we must also devote ourselves to these problems at international level. This also includes joining the UN Migration Pact, because through our non-accession, we have taken a chance to participate globally and to form a global contribution. While the other states make up how to get hold of migration and asylum, Austria is somehow standing by and unfortunately cannot get involved. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Haider: Incredible!]] In this report we are discussing today, however, there is another interesting thing that I would like to read out, which I fully agree with, and I believe that we should also highlight things that we think are good. This report contains the following sentence: "For Austria, the observance of European values is central, and there can be no cancellations here. Rule of law is a central pillar for every functioning democracy [...].” I can only underline that, and I think it's great that Austria confesses to it. But I would like to mention one thing: These European values include personal freedom. These European values also include protection against arbitrary arrest. These European values also include the fact that people are not detained due to nebulous hazard forecasts. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And this also means that every human being is the same before the law, no matter what nation, whatever religion he belongs to, no matter what color he has in the skin, how he looks and where he comes from. Each of these laws is the same for every human being. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is currently looking at us. All of Europe looks at us because the Minister of the Interior has tried to explain to us that he wants to change the Constitution because he wants to introduce a new prison grounds, a prison grounds based on any risk forecasts. And those who will make these prognostications have not yet been explained to us. He said in a press conference: Well, this could be done by the officials of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. – These officials, ladies and gentlemen, are bound by direction! They're under the Minister of the Interior. And if the threat forecasts are to make it clear whether people are being imprisoned, that is not democratic. It is not a rule of law and it has nothing to do with the division of violence. We have to explain this to the Minister of the Interior, and I hope the Federal Government will do so. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The whole of Europe looks at us because, by the introduction of this constitutional provision, the Minister of the Interior wants to decide by a simple majority laws with which he brings certain groups of people under this Constitutional Law and thus has the opportunity to lock up certain groups of the population at any time with the majority of the government without any concrete suspicions of crime. He calls it security, he calls it preventive, and in history we have had such preventive, protective, and protective and internment camps. And we live in a European Union where we have said that we do not want to do this. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] No one should be detained without any concrete suspicion of crime. This does not correspond to our basic values. And I have to say, I am convinced that it is also at the ÖVP There are Members who will stand up here and say no when it comes to limiting our basic values. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: You believe in the good in man!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10039	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Blossom to word reported. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10061	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zadić! I am a little surprised at the nature of your speech, because I have adopted the item on the agenda that is currently under way is the EU Annual Perspective 2019. And if I look into the very competent and compact report, I see here are European Council meetings, projects on the future of Europe, institutional affairs, the multiannual financial framework and many other issues, and enlargement. But the issue that you accuse the government of constantly wanting to play, namely the migration pact, the migration crisis, or the question of what action the Ministers of the Interior are taking is not included in it. I wonder if You have a greater interest in these issues than everyone else and you only blame us because you need it yourself. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightness: Do you want to prescribe to Mrs. Zadić what she can say?]] I would like to stick to the facts and to what the EU's annual outlook is and what the major topics will be for 2019. The Federal Chancellor has already addressed some of these issues and, of course, the question of the way in which the European Union is leaving the European Union will affect this next half-year. However, since the next item on the agenda also contains the so-calledworship law, I do not want to go into it too much detail because we can still do that in the next debate, but take it as an opportunity to perhaps also introduce a opposite aspect. The fact that the European Union is generally seen as a success project is also based on the fact that it is a peace project, a project that has de facto created prosperity within the European states after centuries of war. That is why it was all the more incredible for me and for many others than the UK has decided to leave this Union, this success project, now. I think this is a disaster for both sides, and, no matter how it looks, we can only achieve the lowest possible loss-less situation and no more win-win situation. But I think it is all the more important, especially in such a situation, to highlight also the opposite aspect, which is essential, namely the question of how the European Union can expand. It is the tradition of Austrian foreign policy to stand up for a clear prospect of accession by the states on the Western Balkans, for many different reasons: on the one hand, because we have a historically very narrow connex on this area of Europe, on the other hand, because we can decide whether we want to export stability or import instability as a European Union. And the prospect of accession for all states in the Western Balkans, of course under conditions, is an incredible engine for further development, for change, for constitutional reforms in this area and for the pro-European forces. We have been working for this during the Presidency of the Council, and this is also a priority during the next half-year of the Romanian Presidency. Austria does so traditionally, so it is also a focus, as has been said, because it is necessary that these countries have an incentive to develop in the right direction. There is a dynamic that has developed, including during the Austrian Presidency, which hopes that a positive development will be a priority. I am referring to the fact that a decades-long dispute between – now – the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Greece has been settled, a dispute that has blocked the development of Northern Macedonia in every direction. It is nice to see that during our presidency – I was just before the referendum in Macedonia – there was a step in the right direction. This has created a dynamic that may also help to resolve other conflicts in this region. I am speaking, above all, of the Belgrade Pristina dialogue, which has taken a step in the right direction even during the Austrian Presidency. However, I would also like to thank the ladies and gentlemen in Northern Macedonia and to acknowledge that they have opted for this step. They have changed the name of their country by constitution to end the international blockade. This also calls for great respect, for I would just like to point out what often happens in Austria if, due to necessary administrative reforms, one brings together districts and changes administrative boundaries without substantial intervention in the constitution or self-determination: This is often very difficult and also associated with many media debates. This country has managed to change the name of an entire state, thereby disbanding an international blockade and thus making it possible to make a way towards Europe possible. We want to continue to support this because, as I said, it is necessary to show a clear perspective for these states in the Western Balkans. I put so much emphasis on it because this is particularly important to us as the Austrian Federal Government in the next half year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10103	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10125	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Europe is in turbulent times, on the one hand because of the refugee movement and the migration crisis. Mrs Zadić, you cannot deny that the refugee movement that has changed Europe in a sustainable way! This accusation is not to the fleeing people. But the fact is that the movement has washed away governments, has produced radical groups, that it has led Europe to its borders, and it has been seen that this common Europe, the European Union, is not solidarity when certain states say: We do not accept refugees if this does not work with external border protection. So to deny this would be a head-in-the-sand stick. The fact is: You've got to figure this out. All this has also shown that Europe needs a common foreign and security policy, effective external border protection and more. But the turbulence continues: Brexit – new reports from the United Kingdom every day. It seems very chaotic to go there, at least very turbulent. Italy, with its economic development, is like a damocles sword permanently over the European Union. Finally, all of this falls into a time when there are elections to the European Parliament. So there is a need for turbulence and stability is very important. The European Commission is trying to achieve this stability, and the annual programme, which has been presented, will provide stability, namely that promises will be fulfilled and our future will be shaped. What about the remaining 27 Member States if UK really leaves the European Union? How can one generate growth, create jobs? But how to ensure sustainable energy supply – keyword: Energy Union – meeting climate change, giving people security? – Of course, based on our common European values: Democracy, rule of law and, above all, freedom. In my opinion, stability belongs to openness. Yesterday in the EU Subcommittee with Federal Minister Blümel, I think we had a very good discussion. I share his opinion: It is important that we address the problems of the European Union openly. Not to discuss it would be completely wrong. I believe that this is an essential part of a truly honest policy. If people's concerns are no longer addressed when they are kept silent or even pushed out, the citizen says: Politics does not understand us, this common Europe no longer understands us! – That is why we need to act and deal offensively with these issues and to be critical of the European Union as well. The European Union is working on progress, which is a process that needs constant change – as we have seen recently. Therefore, it needs to be considered critically and to be changed to the positive, only then can one achieve real progress and a further development of the European Union. After the election of the European Parliament, Europe will re-establish itself: Commission President new, President-in-Office new, High Representative for Foreign Policy, President of the European Central Bank new, President of the Euro Summit new. There's a need for strong political leaders. Sebastian Kurz is such a person who is also trying internationally to clearly underline the European and Austrian views, most recently in the USA, in the Arab League and in many other areas. We need to get a more attractive European Union in order for citizens to accept it. In this light, we can also see the multiannual financial framework that will be discussed. It should provide stability over several years. There will still be very hot debates, because UK contributes at least 15 percent to the EU's GDP, is one of the biggest net payers, and this money is missing when UK exits. In this respect, the Austrian position is right to say that the EU must, when it gets smaller, become more efficient and save. For example, in the European Commission's proposal, 23 percent more money is spent on administration and staff. It is precisely the opposite of what Austria is proposing. That is why it is right to think about how to save there. I don't do any EU bashing at all, but it must be allowed to say: It's got to be questioned. Finally, it is about the need for unanimity, and ultimately it is also about giving the Western Balkans a perspective. North Macedonia has been mentioned. The European Union, in particular, is doing a great deal in this region, in financial terms, in terms of social policy. We don't have to put our light under the casket. This topic was driven by Austria, and so it should be in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10185	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10209	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! There's a shadow over this project report, and that's what I want to see. It's a big disaster for everyone involved, and I've been wondering for a long time: How'd it get there? What happened when a country left the European Union in such chaos? – There are certainly more things to play with, but one thing is clear: In the UK, a kind of politics has happened, a policy of categorisation, of hustle and bustle, of fake news, of untruth – a bad conservative policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Zarits: Go!]] Now, in Austria, we are given an example of how to alienate the people of the European Union. This federal government takes away a holiday for people, a holiday away, and at the end of the day says: The European Union is to blame! – This is exactly the policy that has led to Brexit, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] Stealing a holiday and making the EU responsible is what has probably happened in the UK. [[Abg. Haider: We need a fake news law, gel, light peace? But for your speeches!]] We've been lucky in truth. We have been lucky that it is not so far away from us, because we have a party in our midst, which openly confesses itself to the Öxit: the Freedoms! Has Mr Strache – I may quote – said: Get out of this EU!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Strache said: Get out of this centralist and evocative EU!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Strache said: Of course, an auxit is also in question!? – This is the chairman of this party, who now pretends to be doing nothing about it. That's incredible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say openly to you that I would be more relaxed, because now you are doing so, so whether this time is over; that is now the new FPÖ. There's the new ÖVP, there's the new FPÖ, everything new! [[Abg. And an ancient SPÖ! An ancient SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: A new SPÖ is also available, especially in Tyrol, the Dornauer!]] Then I would like to ask you a few questions, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: What about Mr Salvini, your best friend, who now has to justify getting 30 million from the Russians? I ask you: How much did you get from the Russians to possibly destroy the EU? How much did you get? Reply That's what you're [[Admissibility at SPÖ and in the case of JETZT.]] [[Abg. Haider: No dirt dome is too dirty for you! That's incredible!]] Or: What plans were discussed at Mr Strache's meeting with Mrs Le Pen, with Mrs Le Pen, who wants to destroy the European Union and confess to destroy this European Union? [[Abg. Neubauer: You would have liked to know!]] [[Abg. New builder: such nonsense! Thank God it's over!]] And I'm asking you to conclude: What devil did Mr Vilimsky drive to say in the "ZIB 2" that he wanted to abolish the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen? That's really incredible! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: But, Mr Leichtfried, you do not need that! So deep!]] I and the Austrian Social Democracy do not want Brexit or Öxit, and this different attitude will also make you feel in the elections to the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10382	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Roman Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10417	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the colleague Lightenfried – the red comrades in the Chamber of Workers election struggle have their nerves blank. There's no dirt dome too dirty than that you wouldn't get in with both hands and throw the dirt dome wildly around you. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is where the Chamber of Labour leads a trial to the European Court of Justice, and these red workers' chamber officials have been concerned only with removing and getting rid of a flawless holiday for some Christian denominations from their point of view. [[Call the SPÖ: Right!]] And now that this federal government has found a solution for this, which is also thought to be good by the religious communities, of course this does not fit the Red again – quite clearly, it is workers' election campaign and there is no dirty dome too dirty! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] There's no dirty dome too dirty! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Colleague Leichtfried turns out here and gives his fake news – so you really have to say it – for the best. Dear colleague, you have been reminded: Just when the pictures of the Austrian border, when we were overrun uncontrolled by migrants, were seen on British television, the decision for the Brexit – and this is your red contribution to the division of Europe! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It was a socialist Chancellor who opened the borders. It was the later socialist chancellor who made himself as the head of the ÖBB as the head of the nation here, in the negative - [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10471	Mr Haider, I would ask you to take back the word “Oberschlepper” because we have agreed that criminally relevant offences violate the dignity of the house as an accusation. I'm also looking for you to be a little moderate in tone. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10486	I've already said it here two or three times, but if you're not right, I'll call him a tour guide. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us go back to the report that is actually going on here today. [[Abg. Lightness: That was a bad joke now! A very bad joke!]] Such reports – and they sometimes do so in themselves – are very general, and it is worth reading further documents to which these reports refer. And I would like to point out a very special issue: the planned deepening of the banking union, as required by the joint declaration by the Council, the Commission and Parliament. I am concerned about the third pillar of the Banking Union, about joint deposit guarantee. For good reasons, we have always rejected this common deposit guarantee, and that will not change. The various deposit guarantees in Austria are on a solid basis and have been well filled by the local savers. A transfer of this domestic deposit guarantee to a European deposit guarantee would be a significant deterioration for the Austrians and in the final effect an extension of the Transfer Union, and we strongly reject this in Austrian interest, not with us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because I am a curious person, I have also looked at some of the other reports referred to in this report, namely the EU's annual report on family policy. I'm just reading a few titles that the EU wants to deal with: ‘Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the compatibility of work and private life for parents and caregivers’; ‘Proposal for a Council Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment regardless of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation’; ‘Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to ensure a more balanced representation of women and men among non-executive directors/supervisory council members of listed societies and related measures’ and, last but not least, ‘Agreement by the European Union on the ‘Convention of the Council of Europe to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence’ (Istanbul Convention)’. These are topics that are of great support only: All these topics that I have just listed have a problem: They have nothing but nothing to do with the internal market. They do not have anything to do with the common foreign and security policy, nor do they have anything to do with the third pillar – you know, these are the three pillars of the EU – justice and home affairs, police cooperation – at all! All these are areas in which the EU does not interfere, which do not belong to the three pillars, the three most original EU agendas, but the EU has made us continuous directives, proposals and proposals, and that must stop! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is the one side that the EU is interfering in areas where it has not lost anything at all. On the other hand: Where it would make sense, where we need cooperation, for example, to protect the common external borders, where the EU fails, where it fails disastrously. It would be useful if something were to go further in these areas in the EU, but there is nothing going on at all, as it clearly fails. Finally, a small example, also from this family report, to show the ideological nonsense that is taking place in the EU. One of the EU’s eleven youth goals – one hears and is amazed – and now I quote: ‘the equality of all sexes’. They have heard correctly, “all genders. ” It doesn't say: by the sexes, neither does it say: Equality between men and women; no, there is really: “Similar of all sexes” – just like these left-left brachilidologists do in their madness. There is absolutely what natural sciences say, now there are obviously no more two genders in the EU, no, no, there are many, everyone, I know everything. We needed that. Thank you, bravo EU! – It will not play with us in the future, this must finally stop in the EU! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion: We must come back to an EU that focuses on the well-being of European citizens. We need less Brussels, we need more Austria again!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10559	Mrs Steger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10583	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Leichtfried falsely claimed that our top candidate and EU Head of Delegation, Harald Vilimskyin of the ZIB 2 at Armin Wolf, should have said that he wants to abolish the EU Parliament. I'm actually correcting: He proposed simply a reduction in the number of Commissioners or a possible halvion of the number of MEPs of the European Parliament, as a possibility that the EU will save once in its own administration, rather than that we as net payers will increasingly be paying in to the EU. And that has been a correct and sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10613	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Peter Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10638	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not comment on the scientific statements made by my previous speaker, but on a brief comment from the Federal Minister. Federal Minister! If my colleague Alma Zadić is speaking here about a European directive and also about how the abuse of this European directive by the Minister of the Interior can also lead to great damage to the European and human rights position of the Republic of Austria far beyond Europe, then it is not your job to explain to her that she has no reason to discuss it here! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Mr Federal Minister, you will not explain to us – perhaps in your party and in the FPÖ, in the Austrian National Council, it is not customary for a minister to try to explain the MP in particular to the opposition – what we have to talk about in this plenary session! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That is why we are talking about the way in which the Federal Government deals with Europe, and about what damage the Republic of Austria, the fundamental rights of this Republic and the fundamental rights of this European Union are threatening by the Federal Government and, in particular, by the Freedom Party. So, and now I come to the reception directive again, because we cannot just talk about it, but we need to talk about it. This is one of the important and major discussions in the coming months, and it is not only very closely observed by Brussels, what the Austrian Minister of the Interior is up to. [[Abg. Rosary: This is what the Lord Pilz is looking at, but we are afraid now!]] In short, on the subject, which is known to all of us: There is still an investigation into who is politically responsible for the return of a 14-fold pre-crisiser who has rightly been declared from Austria by means of tugs and has committed a murder of an Austrian official in Dornbirn, who is responsible for the fact that this person has not been pushed into custody at the time of the crime. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party – starting with the Minister of the Interior – say: Blame is the lack of implementation of a European directive! – This is a great news from the Freedom Party that we should implement more European directives. That is to say, Parliament is guilty because it is impotent in the implementation of a European directive. But all the facts point to that – and that must be examined –: Debt is a failure of authority! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] According to § 76 of the Foreign Police Act, this gentleman could have been pushed into custody, of course and in time, and there is a single person who is politically responsible for the fact that this objection has not been imposed, which would have prevented the worst: the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria. He is the only political person, and I am pleading for a punitive parliamentary inquiry to establish this responsibility. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ]] And what happens now? – Now, free-of-charge transpositions are coming and saying: Yes, we must now amend the Federal Constitutional Act on the Protection of Personal Freedom from 1988! – And what does the Minister of the Interior want to change? – He did it at his press conference on 25 February. It was clearly stated in February: He wants there to be a new preventative grounds for detention before an act has been committed; a preventive cause of imprisonment, namely the risk of national security and public order. If today most younger men are heading toward Wörthersee in the fresh golf GTI, then not only are Carinthian police officers assuming that there will be a genuinely expected disorder of public order. Now, of course, the Minister of the Interior says: No, I don't mean the golf GTI drivers, just asylum seekers! But let's not forget one thing: Once the Constitution is changed – that is not the case in the Constitution – then every majority of governments can simply determine who it is, and that is the great danger. This is the danger that we need to talk about in time and we have to turn it off in time. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Then it can be others, then it can be animal protectors, then it can be environmental activists – then it can be who does not fit the Freedom Party! What happens if someone doesn't fit the Freedom Party? – This is seen at the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism. What happened there? – Although the officials are clearly protected by Austrian laws, an attack has been launched under the pretext of a house search that makes it impossible to do the work of constitutional protection there in the way it deserves public security. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And no one can guarantee us that a majority of governments do not also target other groups of people. [[Abg. Deimek: The question is whether it is a lie or a common untruth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This National Council has many tasks, but it has an outstanding task: to protect the fundamental and freedom rights in this Republic without If and But, and these fundamental and freedom rights are today threatened by the Freedom Party and by the Interior Minister. [[OBJECTIVES]] We will examine the case and we will do everything we can to protect the Constitution from the Freedom Party! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10734	Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Bißmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10753	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! Thank you very much for presenting your joint report on the EU's annual forecast for 2019, even though the year has already begun. I was particularly interested in the chapter “Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development”. This chapter is not too detailed. You too, Mr Federal Minister, have not even spoken in your remarks about sustainable development. As I read through, I was pleased to see that our Federal Chancellor is planning to present progress in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda in New York next year, in July 2020. What exactly does that mean? – This means that the Federal Chancellor before the world public, before the world community, presents his achievements for ensuring a sustainable future in Austria: What did he do? What did he do? What didn't he do? Sustainability, sustainable development – as implemented in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, in short SDGs, in 17 areas –: This is an issue that covers all the areas of life that all our ministries are concerned with, all our ministers and ministers. Last year I submitted requests to all ministries and asked the state of the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Goals and how the ministries integrate the sustainability goals into their daily work. The answers were sobering. All ministries except the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism have felt little responsibility. Many have also referred to the Ministry of Sustainability. Apart from a few individual initiatives towards sustainability, I lack an interdisciplinary approach on the part of the Ministries, which takes into account the cross-sectional relevance of sustainable development, especially climate policy. The Ministry of Sustainability, which is responsible for such issues, lacks the necessary horizontal, cross-sectoral authority over other ministries. What could be the solution here to give institutional priority to sustainable development in Austria? – In Denmark, in Germany and also in other countries of which we do not yet know, the proposal is currently being debated and, in part, implemented to set up overarching sustainability and climate change agencies. Such an institution shall: Austria could be a climate protection state secretariat, a sustainability state secretariat. This could also be done during a current legislative period. Mr. Federal Minister, imagine that next year you could present such an innovative institutional proposal on the side of our Federal Chancellor of the World Publicity! Other governments would stand before you, before us snake to learn from your, from our example. I am convinced that the necessary constitutional changes would be implemented here in the House and that our Federal President would also be able to win them. In sustainability and climate protection, as in no other area, there is a need for consistent cooperation between all parties. It needs the extra-partial constructive shoulder closure without a party hack, so that we show the following generations that we seriously mean it with a life-worthy future. #fridaysforfuture – the youth looks very closely at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10801	The next item is Mrs Angela Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10825	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests at the gallery! At the outset, I would like to say very briefly that Mr Vilimsky – and this can be seen from the written protocol – said that the AfD would have liked to abolish the European Parliament and would like to give more power to the Council. And you can talk about it. – Mr Vilimsky said that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the same time, Mr Haider, I would like to make a brief comment on your dirty dome campaign: I do not think it is up to you to call it a dirty dome campaign, especially since yesterday Mr. Synod President Dr. Peter Krömer said in the “Report” that there are 300,000 affected, 300,000 evangelicals are losers, plus then the Old Catholic. [[Abg. Rosary: Oh yes!]] He has also not excluded a complaint. That's what I'm saying: That's a recognition of the reality of your part when you call it a dirty dome campaign. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] I would like to draw two points from this report. The first point is the point of media, which can be found on page 42 – under point 10. Austria has given its position in Europe – and this can be read in the report – that there is a need to counteract the imbalance between classical media and online platforms. During the Austrian Presidency, this has not succeeded, and it is constantly being pushed to the long-term stage. What has been in place in the billing of power protection rights for broadcasts of audio recordings for 50 years is still not available in the digital media. If copyright is not developed further and if the music industry deserves more and more streaming and the individual interpreters lose more and more, the interpreters will not like this. It is also unbelievable to act in this way in the European Union, but not even at home in one's own country. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] The second position I would like to highlight is cyber policy. Austrian position on this: Building a European competence centre and a national coordination centre. Let's really talk about cyberpolitics in Austria! What does she look like? – The last Court of Auditors report pointed out that 25 percent of cybersecurity posts are not in the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Rosary: Cybercrime!]] What is being done about it? - Nothing. Now there is a new Wehrrechtsverwicklungsgesetz, which also defines military powers, and even in the context of these military powers – although it is acknowledged that cybersecurity should become a possible contribution – the term Cyber is strangely not found in the law text. Be credible! Do it! Don't just talk about this in Europe, but create the basis and the conditions for it here in Austria too! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] [[12:04]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e10978	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of this report III-247 of the supplements. Whoever agrees to take note of the matter, I ask him for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Arbitrators, colleagues and colleagues on ‘To ensure no eco-exite by the Federal Government’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Lightness: (in the direction of ÖVP) Aha! Has the FPÖ come through!]] [[12:05:07]] 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (491 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Contracting Service Law 1948, the Law on the Service of the State, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Seas (Brexit-Beglitgesetz 2019 - BreBeG 2019) (506 d.B.) (506 d.B.) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft federal law amending the Insurance Supervision Act 2016 (507 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11039	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 2 and 3 on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11069	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Brexit Act is something like a placebo to be administered in order to scatter the population into the eyes of sand, as if it were told that everything is all right and we are doing everything that is necessary anyway. If you really look at this draft law and read it through, then you come up with it: Of 1,581 laws that exist in Austria, exactly 16 are amended. That means that you won't find the way out. Five laws have provided for the exclusive authorisation of the Minister for Regulation. We do not know what these powers of regulation are to be used for, we do not know what everything is to be regulated in these powers of regulation. – This is Parliament’s task! I do not understand your self-confidence, because if we do not start to define or explain these powers of regulation, then we are making ourselves obsolete as legislators, because the Minister is given every opportunity to act alone through these empowerments. So this Brexit law is actually just a sedative game – that's what all the experts see – because it doesn't really do something about it. It is not enough to settle, it is not in any way final, it does not even address problems that are already there. For example, one does not regulate, although one already knows that someone who graduateds in the UK can write it in a document in Austria. I don't know why you don't handle that. You could do that quite simply now; quite simply. While it is regulated that the native speakers in schools retain their contract, that they continue to be employed as native speakers, they do not explain what about social security and what about pension insurance. You already know about the problem – but you don't do it! It is a superficial, bad law that could be adapted to the demands much better even now, but one does not. And also on the structure of how this Brexit law was made: Some ministries – I have already mentioned it – only give the Minister an authorisation, others do not participate in it at all. The Ministry of Economic Affairs sees no problem at all, there is nothing at all. So I can't imagine the Ministry of Economic Affairs just won't have any problems with Brexit. The Ministry of the Environment does not seem to have any problems either. So the structure of this law is also wrong. The Ministries, which have introduced legislative changes, are responding to the Brexit, except – and I am going to be very bright - the Ministry of the Interior, because this also applies to future further withdrawals. That is, that is the way of thinking of the liberals: that we really want to disband the European Union. It also fits very well in that on 27.1.2016 the Freedom Party submitted a motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council in accordance with Art. 49b B-VG submitted a request concerning the holding of a People’s Survey on Austria’s departure from the EU for decision-making.” – That was a request made in 2016. This attitude has never been abandoned and is now documented by the Brexit Act, by the Ministry of the Interior preparing itself for us to leave as well. So, dear friends, and this is addressed to the ÖVP: How long do you want to have this group, which is really only interested in the European Union's resolution, as a companion in your European policy? . I say that this is a declaration of bankruptcy of the EIA policy and, given its statements on Europe, it has long been a declaration of bankruptcy by the FPÖ. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I wish you a lot of fun. The law is really bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11112	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11136	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! First, on behalf of our clubman Gust Wöginger and of course on behalf of all of us, I would like to welcome a group from the district of Schärding, from Zell an der Pram. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2016, in a popular survey, the British decided to leave the European Union by a majority. In 2017, the British Government sent its withdrawal request from the European Union to the other Member States. After that, there were negotiations on an orderly withdrawal from the European Union. The Treaty was concluded under the Austrian Presidency in November 2018. This Treaty was subsequently presented to the British Parliament and to the United Kingdom on 15 July. January 2019 the British Parliament said no to this orderly withdrawal. Ladies and gentlemen! Great Britain produced chaos in Europe during this time. Great Britain was insecure the financial markets, Great Britain was insecure the companies. At this time, it was therefore urgently necessary for all the other 27 countries of the European Union to hold together and a common line against it. It's about Great Britain. As far as this is concerned, we can be truly grateful to all EU Member States. It has shown itself a new strength in common. The EU-27 cannot be divided apart, it adheres to the withdrawal agreement. And as long as the UK does not see a new way out, the EU-27 will stay there for so long. . At this point also a special thanks to our government, which has conducted these difficult negotiations in the last half of the year and which has also held a clear position for Austria: the best for Europe and Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The SPÖ's request to the Constitutional Committee two days ago was completely wrong. They have suddenly tried to achieve that we are starting bilateral negotiations with Great Britain. – jobs You're up to this! A underminer of the European position! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You are betraying your political grandfathers. It was still Vrannitzky who fought with Alois Mock for a common Europe. Today, you are sacrifice Europe at the altar of the political little money that Mr Wittmann has changed here – for a little thing you are doing here. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You have lost the big field, you no longer stand for what we stand for in Europe, and you have also forgotten why the British probably did this exit in June 2016: A year ago, there was the great wave of migration to Europe, and quite a lot of people in Great Britain were insecure, quite a lot of people in Great Britain thought they were no longer masters in their own country. They're also populists. They decided to do so. They did what was then done in Austria. We now have a new government policy, and it is no longer necessary for us to leave the European Union because we have a new weight in the European Union because we have taken the necessary step and ensure that the external borders are protected, that we are safe within Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! You too have been written by SPÖ in the main book – free to Fjodor Dostoyevski –: Each of us has responsibility for all of us!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11209	Mr Dr. Peter Wittmann spoke on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11236	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl claimed that the SPÖ had made a request for bilateral negotiations with the UK in the Committee. - That's wrong. The SPÖ has submitted a request for committee opinion, which has made it clear that it is necessary to assess this law much more accurately and that the competent authorities are invited to report their concerns. [[Abg. Lightenness: He didn't understand that!]] These concerns could then have been incorporated into a law. It didn't happen. We have had to make this request; it would have become a better law. They refuse to agree. We can't do anything. You've got the majority. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we were unable to find a better solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11275	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11299	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== March 2019, perhaps later, will leave the EU, without a doubt a black day for Europe. In this context, it should be the primary task for the Austrian Federal Government to, where possible, avert damage from affected people and to make every effort to protect their rights as best as possible. In the present situation, this is not the case, as the Federal Government, contrary to its public announcements, is negligent to some extent. Hard Brexit without an agreement between the EU and the UK is still not excluded. It is our parliamentary duty to prepare us for this worst-case scenario as possible. What exactly is it about? – It is about a variety of delicate and sensitive issues for the people. Not least are the social security and pension rights of Austrian citizens, as well as issues relating to residence rights. These are existential questions for Austrian nationals who live and work in the UK or have lived and worked and, of course, the British who have acquired such claims in Austria. The Brexit Act, which is now being presented, ladies and gentlemen, leaves many of these questions unanswered and unregulated. The members of the Federal Government have not left out any opportunity for self-marketing, but they have apparently neglected their actual task of doing decent work for the people. Europe was founded as a peace project, ladies and gentlemen! It stands for freedom, security and solidarity. We should further develop this, jointly and with Passion for this just as great and successful project. Therefore, listen to other opinions and allow a new review of the bill because it is simply incomplete as it is available and many questions do not answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11332	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Markus Tschank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11357	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! Mr Wittmann, on your statement: Once you have to note that the FPÖ of course has a European critical position, but those who love Europe must also be critical in the event of misdevelopments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] For a long time, we were the only party who had raised their fingers and rightly criticized them in the event of misdevelopments – and rightfully, on many points, starting from the migration question to the democratic deficit, the criticism points were fully justified. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In no way did the Freedom Party in its Party Programme, in party decision-making, ever demand an Öxite in Gremial Decisions. This is correct here, and it is also fundamentally wrong what Mr Wittmann has done here for the best. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann:... have a resolution!]] Brexit is likely to become political reality, ladies and gentlemen. The negotiations so far have been marked by the rare unity of the EU-27 and by difficult political negotiations within the United Kingdom. An orderly withdrawal of Great Britain is in the interest of both sides. The question that many Austrian citizens ask themselves is how it could actually come that far. The European Union is a project to secure peace, freedom and prosperity for this continent. This peace project must be ensured for future generations. The key question I have to ask in this regard is: Does the EU have a co-responsibility in this Brexit? Has she been successful when she loses member states on her way? Where exactly are the causes of these consequences? It is about the strategic orientation of the European Union, it is about centralism or federalism. It is about the decision of a multicultural single state or diversity of European cultures and peoples, and at the end of the day it is about an orderly migration policy and effective external border protection or an open border policy. The peoples of Europe, ladies and gentlemen, are our cultural treasures that must be preserved. This is our task, and this is also the task of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. In recent days, the French philosopher Alain Finkielkraut has also spoken on this subject. You will certainly know the name, he is one of the most famous French philosophers and has said to the “world”, a German news magazine, a few days ago: “Without Angela Merkel, “We are doing this!” and the millions of immigrants who received Germany in 2015 would not have existed. Europe was not called upon to become a multicultural society, but rather to protect the Europeans. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I say to one, ladies and gentlemen: This philosopher is perfectly right! The Brexit and its consequences are the direct consequence of a missing migration and immigration policy, which was mainly implemented by Angela Merkel and the German Federal Government in 2015 and which continues to maintain it. This policy divides Europe to this day, creating good and bad states, good and evil parties, good and evil politicians in the media. It threatens the cultural statics of European peoples, it threatens European social systems, and it threatens peace in Europe at the end of the day. That's not what the British wanted, and that's why they decided. I am sure, however, that the British would have expressed their trust in another Europe, a Europe that protects it. Conclusion: The Brexit would have been avoidable. We will now no doubt have to live with this very result. In the event of this withdrawal, there is also the current Brexit Act, which provides for effective transitional arrangements. 15 laws are affected: It is about job security for employees of British companies based in Austria, British teachers or lawyers who can continue to work unharmed here in Austria, it will make it easier to obtain residence permits, and the British companies will have time to adapt their legal form by 2020, because, of course, the freedom of establishment will be eliminated. The Brexit, ladies and gentlemen, is not a welcome matter, not for the United Kingdom and not for the European Union, but it offers the opportunity to rethink. Brexit is a wake-up call for European policy to focus on the wishes of the peoples and the peoples of their Member States and to address the central problems of the continent. The EU election is the opportunity for a change in Europe. People can choose from previous European policies and provide a new direction for Europe. The government, the FPÖ as a government party and also the top candidate Harald Vilimsky are in favour of the scenario 4 of the White Paper: less, but more efficient. The EU should focus on achieving faster results in selected areas, leaving it to other areas of activity which should be better regulated by the Member States. It is precisely this objective that needs to be implemented. We will fight for this because we have a lot to do with this peace project. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11422	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11447	Madam President. Dear Mr Tschank, you said that the European Union had been a part of Brexit. – It was not the European Union that blamed the British for leaving, nor was Angela Merkel responsible for leaving the British. Debt were right and conservative politicians who lied to the people in Great Britain who promised them milk and honey. [[Admissibility with NEOS and NOW]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes is clear! Those who make laws are not to blame...!]] And what do they get now? - One bill after another. It will be much more expensive for the British outside the European Union. And this money, which has been promised, will come suddenly, which can be put into the health system and anywhere else, is not only not there, but it will be even less there in the post-war period, which can be invested in Great Britain. [[Abg. Rosary: So this stupid election people should really be abolished!]] This is the consequence of a withdrawal from the European Union, and it was conservative and right-wing politicians who blamed it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Where can you read this? - On Twitter. There is a super account, called “Led By Donkeys @ByDonkeys”, that is, led by donkeys, and he collects statements from British politicians in the run-up to thevotum, packs them on huge posters and presents them in London, such as Boris Johnson, who said: There's no plan for a deal because we're gonna get a great deal! Or Michael Gove, who said: The day after we voted for an exit, we will have all the cards in our hand and will be able to choose the way we want!, or John Redwood, who said: Getting out of the EU can be fast and easy – Britain has the best cards in every negotiation! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Steger.]] What's that worth? – These are things that conservative politicians and EU skeptics in the UK have said in the run-up to Brexit – easily, without any idea of what populist and powerless policy will ultimately have to do, namely that the chances of hundreds of thousands, millions of young British people for decades to come are simply thrown away from the table. There are no more opportunities for the young Europeans in Great Britain who would have liked to remain in the European Union. And why was that? – Because one has been lied about the consequences of a Brexit. I have already talked about the issue of disinformation today, which was an important part of it. It was an important part of the fact that one no longer had control over how a debate was actually going, because one has completely relied on it: Well, it's going to be true what the politicians say, these are ordinary people who have a great responsibility, they won't lie to us! - Fuck you. Why do I say all that? [[Abg. Neubauer:... speaking time!]] – Because in Austria, too, we need to look at the fact that we do not blame the European Union for things that we can share in ourselves, for things that we ourselves can have in order to make a little better. In the EU Subcommittee, Minister Blümel said: It does nothing to make the EU responsible for things that it is not responsible for, but it also does nothing to cover problems and act as if it were none! and has referred to the migration crisis as an example – where we know that there were individual Member States that have prevented a European solution to this challenge! We must stop making the European Union – albeit a little more subtle than in the UK – responsible for things for which we ourselves bear the responsibility. There are, of course, examples such as a super-Austrian anti-gold-plating law, which concerns that we require that we no longer meet voluntary requirements of EU standards. – As the word voluntarily says: There was no need for such a law. [[Abg. Gudenus: The European solution as a task of its own!]] One could simply take on responsibility for the things that one does instead of pushing other people or the European Union, because this will destroy trust in the European Union, and then one will be in front of the salad. You can now look at that in the UK.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11538	Now Mr. Federal Minister Mag has himself. Blossom to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11560	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the item on the agenda, which is that we are presenting the plans in case the UK leaves the European Union without a deal. Perhaps a short while to the basics, because this might have caused a little confusion among the previous speakers: It is a disaster that the British leave the Union. The only way we still have on the part of the European Union is to keep the damage as low as possible. That would be possible with this deal, with this withdrawal agreement, which we have negotiated at European level for two years now. This de facto regulates everything that is necessary, including Security clauses that there is no hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, so that blood does not flow there again – in case the future relationship is not as narrow as we would like it to be. In the event that the UK decides not to take this deal and strive for a tough Brexit – which I do not hope – there are preparatory measures in all European Member States and at the level of the Commission. The Commission started the so-called quota planning in summer and invited the Member States to do so at national level. We followed that immediately. Since the end of the summer, there has been a separate steering group in the Federal Chancellery, under which we, together with all ministries and the social partners, have researched and defined the various legislative instruments: There could be a problem, because there will be a problem, because we have to take unilateral measures to be prepared for the event. We have discussed this law, these legislative instruments also with the Commission, and there have been no further objections. We have considered how other Member States in the Union regulate this event. It has also become clear that we have taken a good course with the legislative measures that are now in place. So we're well prepared, as well as we can, for the event that hopefully won't occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11599	Mr Mag. Josef Lettenbichler is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11623	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are today adopting a law that we hope we will never have to apply. Hard Brexit would be the worst variant that would exist, not only for Britain, not for the European Union, but especially for people, whether in Britain, whether in the European Union or in Europe as a whole. I do not want to say that I am not happy about the outcome of this referendum, but it must not only be looked for in my own country, as Mr Gamon has done, but I am already with Mr Tschank: The European Union has also made mistakes in recent years. There was a tendency, a development that we did not like. I am glad that this Federal Government did not make a course correction during the Austrian Presidency, especially in the past half-year, but, I believe, has taken the right path so that Europe can become more citizens-friendly in order to make it safer. We need to create framework conditions so that the social states, the economy, can continue to develop well, and that requires security. That was also the motto of our Presidency: a Europe that protects it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A great dynamic has been created in London just over the past few hours. The oppositional Labour Party now apparently takes note of a repetition of this vote. Prime Minister Theresa May swings on the line that you may now be able to move the exit date backwards. But there is still another way to go, because first of all there must be a decision-making in the British Parliament that there will be a shift, and then must agree with all 27 EU countries. There can also only be a one-time shift until June, and at the latest there must be a decision. This hard Brexit – and this is the only point on which MEPs in the British Parliament agree – is not being sought, but we Austrians and the other Member States must be prepared to do so in the case of cases, and therefore it is good that we will adopt this Brexit Act today. In contrast to what the previous speakers of the SPÖ have said, it is a very well-matured, well formulated law. A long process was started in summer. There was a working group, all the ministries were involved. The social partners were even invited to submit those points which could be problematic from their point of view, which would then be resolved. The coordination is located at the Federal Chancellor's Office, it has been discussed with all the ministries, and finally 15 laws are now in force, which we want to change today. My previous speakers have already said it: It is primarily a question of creating security, of creating clarity. For this we have been elected, this coalition, this government, is in favour. As I said at the beginning: Hopefully we don't need this law, but it's important that we decide today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11672	Next, Mr Magistrate. Günther Kumpitschzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11696	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! ==References== March is so far, it is only a few weeks before the so-called deadline is reached and the United Kingdom is leaving the EU – without agreements, unless agreement is reached on the withdrawal agreement, i.e. a hard Brexit is about to be reached if the deadline is not extended. However, it is also not to be excluded that the European Union continues to take a hard line – not only to the British but also to other EU countries, where there could be other exodus desires in the event. In order to prevent this harsh Brexit, which hopefully will not come, the Federal Government has taken measures to avoid personal and economic disadvantages for the British citizens concerned. It is a collective law which includes 16 laws from areas of competence of eight ministries and is not a placebo. I would like to give you two examples of the concrete impact it has on British nationals. For all nationals of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, who are in a genuine service relationship under the Civil Service Service Law, the Contracting Law or the Law on Services of the State, at the time of the withdrawal from the European Union, the ex-legislation would mean the termination of the service relationship. This would also mean that, for example, we would be lost with the teachers of Native Speakers, which we urgently need. A further effect and consequence would be that the United Kingdom’s nationals’ status as Union citizens and thus their Union legal status. Loss of the right of residence, which is governed by the local law and residence law. The loss of residence rights would also cover third-country nationals, about 11 000 of whom would be affected by economic and personal disadvantages. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say to all those who might be rubbing their hands in silence here in the house or in Brussels: Well, that's what the British have to say now that they want to leave! or that they may be against a post-negotiation agreement for revancist reasons, with all the clarity: The withdrawal of the British from the European Union is not the cause of the disadvantages that we may now suffer to the greater extent, the cause is that the European Union has taken a false development. Mr Gerstl and Mr Tschank have already told us: The cause lies in a completely missing asylum, migration and security policy with inevitable consequences for our people, as we still have to experience them with bloody terrorist attacks, permanent violence and attacks on women. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] These are the reasons why the British decided to leave exactly in 2016, at a time when this crisis reached its peak, and nothing else. Everything else is beautiful dyeing. I'll tell you one thing: Being a glowing European does not mean being just yes-sager at the same time, in order to be able to speak beautifully of any development, or to stay with it for ideological reasons. No, we go our own way, and the British go their way – which does not mean that we do not continue to see Britain, the United Kingdom, as our partners in economic, but also in a friendly way and do everything in our power to avoid damage from its citizens, but also from our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11753	Next speaker: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11778	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mrs Hartinger-Klein! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to say first of all why we are actually holding this debate today or why we are discussing a Brexit law. Unlike some previous speakers, I would like to make a bit of a revision happen in recent years, because it started at European level a few years ago, namely by majority voting in the national states: Conservatives who have put on a policy that was clearly characterised by austerity, debt brakes and no investment. The social Union, the pillar of the social Union as a vision, is completely forgotten. What happened then? – Due to unemployment and job losses – housing has become increasingly expensive – people were frustrated, ate and simply had no confidence in the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These sentiments have used rights, conservatives and populists, both in the UK and in other Member States we know. It has been driven a game with ignition and false promises. Society has been split and played against each other, everything on the back of the citizens. At the cost of cohesion, at the expense of the EU's joint project, including at the expense of the European Union's peace project. They were conservative and right-wing populist politicians who have propagated destruction and are therefore very clearly responsible for this scenario today, for today's Brexitdebakel in which we are stuck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, there are legal populists and nationalists throughout the European Union, party friends and friends of you, estimated ÖVP and FPÖ, who ignite, create fears and destroy the EU. We also know this from Austria – it has already been mentioned today –: There is an ecotane application that was introduced some time ago by the FPÖ. Today, however, we are facing a Brexit law in the case of a hard Brexit, which is a piece of 16 legislative texts that are really absolutely flawless, a word of trade policy that is not at all affected, or educational degrees. Or: In future, what privileges do we assign to the British in comparison to other third-country nationals? Why has it not been negotiated with the other national states in order to choose a common way in the case of hard Brexit? Against this background – it has already been said – we will not give our consent to this accompanying law by the SPÖ. In the future, we would like to discuss here again, have reviews, discuss with experts and not make quick decisions, where we do not yet know how it will continue after today. Finally, I say: We never wanted a Brexit, we're never going to want an ecoxite either. That is why we are fighting for a genuine social union for a European Union of solidarity, which serves the people and not the groups. We do this in social democracy with full conviction. Estimated citizens! I should like to invite you to join this path, to go the way for a Europe for the many and not for the few! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11841	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11865	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I must say that I am mainly a little surprised at the content of this debate. It is about an analysis of the Brexit who is guilty of it, there are mutual debt allocations. I think you're forgetting what's actually the most important thing about this law, namely: Not a few people are affected. We are talking about tens of thousands of people, Austrian citizens living in the United Kingdom, and tens of thousands of UK citizens living in an uncertain country. Actually, I feel it would be our task to give them a clear statement, to give them clarity about what happens when a hard Brexit actually takes place, and that is now a possibility. I think there is great uncertainty, and I think there is a great responsibility for Parliamentarians to make clear here and for people. to give a sense of security. My great request for this debate would have been to focus on it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think the conditions have all been mentioned: We know how the Brexit happened, we know that all of us, above all the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister, are committed to ensuring that it comes to an orderly Brexit. I myself have the honour to travel to London next week with a delegation of the British-Austrian friendship group – represented in the members of all political groups, which I am very pleased with – where we can also hold talks with Members of the British Parliament. There's no question that we're doing everything we can to get an orderly Brexit, and all of us, I think, are of an opinion that we didn't want this Brexit. It is important, however, that we finally have to prepare for it to happen, and it would be negligent – I say so again – that it would have been negligent from my point of view if we had postponed the vote on this law. In the end, we have to count on it – we don't know what happens almost hourly in London – that it is on the 29th. ==References====External links== We still don't know exactly what the next few days will bring. I repeat: In my view, it would be negligent not to put this law to the vote today. What is this law about? – The most important thing is that we insist that the people who live in Austria and the UK will not suffer from the Brexit. The present collective law, which the Federal Minister has already said, is based on the European Commission's action plan for the emergency. There have been the corresponding agreements to that effect, it has been evaluated. From all perspectives, it covers everything that is necessary. And I am also very pleased to hear that the colleagues of the NEOS Group and the JETZT Group have also announced their agreement. The most important aspect is the right of British citizens to stay in Austria in the case of a hard Brexit. We have determined that all those who have been living in Austria for at least five years at the time of retirement receive an unlimited residence permit, and all others have easier access to the Red and White Red Card Plus. At this point, I should also like to say one more important thing: This novelle focuses on British people who live and work in Austria at the time of the Brexit. On the other hand, I have heard that the SPÖ's mandates, I believe, have demanded that we be sure that Austrians living in the UK will also be subject to the same rules. – I can only say: That is certainly the case already. I also met yesterday in a personal discussion with the UK ambassador Leigh Turner and I was able to assure myself that the United Kingdom has already taken these steps. First: The so-called permanent status – setled status there – has already been implemented by the EU Appendix to immigration legislation. This applies both in the case of an orderly and disorderly withdrawal. EU citizens can apply for this permanent residence status already now, the application is free of charge. The evaluation of the first phase of the programme was positive; until 13. On December 15, 2018, more than 15 500 EU citizens had already applied for the setled status. With regard to the transitional periods of frontier workers and access to social services and health care, the United Kingdom has already introduced rules which are partly even more generous than the regulations in Our law: For example, there is no cost of approval. The transitional periods are also more generous. I can summarize: Austrians will also be able to remain in the case of a hard Brexit with largely the same rights as in the United Kingdom. That is why this demand is not sustainable and, I believe, the criticism is totally unwarranted. On the other hand, with this law, we also want to set a sign for all the citizens of the United Kingdom living in Austria. I would also like to say this very clearly: We welcome them here in Austria and would like to make them as easy as possible to continue their stay in Austria. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] In the Committee, as has been said, NEOS and JETZT have voted together with us and the coalition partner for these collection companies. This is a really encouraging step, which shows that you can really pull at a strand when it comes to it. I sincerely urge the SPÖ Members to go along with this and to give a clear sign together. We want to protect the rights of all Austrians in the United Kingdom and vice versa the rights of all citizens of the United Kingdom in Austria, so that they do not become the sufferers of Brexit. Put this sign together with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e11957	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft regarding Brexit Act 2019, including title and receipt in 491 of the Supplements. If you vote in favour of the draft law, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the 2016 Insurance Supervision Act, including title and receipt in 507 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[12:54:24]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (492, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the General Social Security Act (497 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12033	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. I welcome Mrs Hartinger-Klein. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Josef Muchichzzu's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12066	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are now dealing with Agenda item 4, the amendment to the General Social Security Act. Content of this novel is the new e-card with photo. In principle, yes. But if you look at the text of the law and ask yourself the question where the added value of this new e-card with a photo is for the insured, which can actually be more of this new e-card with a photo than the old e-card without a photo, then you can see that all that has happened again, what you have done here in this House in the last 14 months, namely a dilettantic bill that has once again been sent without review and which has no added value for the insured. Her draft, Mrs. Federal Minister, is an e-card New, which does not bring a card, i.e. if you use medical services with this new e-card, the ID card or passport is still necessary – so no improvement. The next point: You do not describe any criteria in your bill as to how to handle these photos or what characteristics they need to have. It can also be old photos according to your draft law, and then you have no added value of this whole scheme at all. One of the reasons why we were always in favour of a new e-card is that we want to reduce social abuse through the e-card. The problem is that the insured will again pay these additional costs of over 32 million euros. There are cases of abuse, which have also come out because of a parliamentary request, whose cost you count at about 80 000 to 100 000 euros a year. According to your parliamentary response, it was said and written 812 abuse cases in the period from 2014 to 2016. There you have to face costs and benefits and question these costs for an e-card new that can't do anything. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as Mr Loacker and Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] The other problem, which many experts point to, is data protection concerns, violations of EU law regarding inequality between Austrians and non-Austrians, and constitutional problems, whereby you hand over your responsibility and competence to the Minister of the Interior by working in connection with the instructions of the Minister of the Interior. This is also unique and really to be questioned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point is this enormous extra effort for all insured persons where no photo can be used for the exhibition. I've received a request from a citizen who writes: According to the word of law, for 15-year-olds for the e-card when issuing the pass as a ten-year-old, these passport photos must be used for the e-card. It is not regulated in your legal text whether expired passport photos can be used, should or not. That's not regulated. - Quote. It is also quite clear to all parents in Austria who now have a 14-year-old child that it will be necessary to bring these photos from 2020 onwards. You must also be informed: You need this new e-card with photo to have a right to health care at all. Leave Finally, you will tell me why we are so disappointed! We have the bridge in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. built on February by making a request for committee opinion. We offered you from FPÖ and ÖVP: Let us make a committee opinion up to 15. March so that we experts can once again ask all these open questions and solve the problems! ==References== A meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is scheduled for March and we shall be able to adopt this in plenary session at the end of March. – You have, unfortunately, rejected this. For this reason, we will give you a chance to take a picture of a business, a reasonable and secure e-card by making a referral request. You have the opportunity to support this application and thus to prevent this Husch-Fuch-Law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to get rid of one more thing: Please do not make the same mistake with a fast law without consideration as with the Working Time Act, where one sees behind it that changes are necessary, or when social security reform is being reduced for the insured, where your experts already have to define first texts, because the law has to be corrected – because you have even whipped it through again in this case without talking to the others – and where [[Abg. Gödl: What do you see?]] You are talking about a performance harmonisation for the insured by your reform, and now it is obvious that in Upper Austria the tick protection vaccination will cost instead of 15 euros in the future 64 euros. There is therefore a harmonisation up in self-preservation, but not in the performance, and that is not a good policy! Make Please policy for the insured in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12124	Mrs Deputies Dr Dagmar Belakovich speaks next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12148	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we decide on the photo on the e-card today. This has been a very long-standing demand from us liberals. This has already begun in 2006/2007, and again and again cases of e-card fraud have become known. The only thing I agree with from your statements, Mr Muchitsch, is the fact that the reported fraud cases have not been particularly many – because it is also so difficult to really prove social fraud. But the dark count is much higher, and you know that too. For example, the “profile” in 2015 has already written that the damage amounts to at least 30 million euros per year. – The “profile” is probably not suspected of being a free organ. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] So you have to speak honestly, which is what the main problems are: This is the transfer of the e-card. These are not the cases in which someone loses them and reports that he has lost them. There's not going to be any fraud, that's clear. It is the transfer, the actually forbidden transfer. Cases like those that have become known in January – a 68-year-old woman has simply passed on her e-card to her mother since 2006, that is, for 13 years; Damage: 50 000 euros – there are very, very many. Anyone who works in the health sector knows it – you get it, but you can't prove it. For this very reason, the demand was also made to give a photo on the e-card. It's interesting already: A little more than a year ago, the SPÖ voted in favour of the photo coming on the e-card. There was a very large common request. The only and only NEOS were those who from the beginning obviously liked to open the social fraud door and gate, but the SPÖ was there! This has not been a hop action either, but there have been negotiations. Mr Muchitsch – if you did not step; probably you do it because you know it exactly – you were at the time when we agreed that the photo was coming. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This decision is now being implemented – just over a year later. Since you're talking about a Husch-Puff action, just like you did in your speech, it's already a bit dazzling. [[Abg. Muchitsch: A Push Law!]] It has been developed for a year now, all possibilities have been thought through. You make fundamental opposition because you believe if you are against everything, you will succeed in voting. I'm telling you quite honestly: People are already standing out your eternal rumour and your eternal nostrils everywhere! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] People outside are happy. There is a huge agreement because no one wants to accept that the social fraud can continue to exist because everyone knows how it is because everyone sees it once he is with the doctor, once he is on an ambulance, which is really happening there. That's exactly what's going on now – and that's good, important and right, so that the e-card fraud by passing on to relatives, to friends, to non-insurers finally has an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12200	Next, Mr Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12221	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, now a photo has to come on this e-card – what do you want! [[Call the FPÖ:Very good!]] [[Abg. Smoking: A good measure!]] In 2017, when a large majority of the care rules were abolished in this House, this measure was intended to raise the costs of the care rules. You can see with your free eye that this is not going to happen. At the time, this has already been known to everyone who has been dealing with matter only a little superficially. Now there is nothing going on, there is no cost being brought in, but first, money is spent: In the first five years, the project costs EUR 32.5 million. [[Abg. Belakovich: But every year a savings of 30 million!]] The proven and suspected abuse together is 100 000 euros in the year. If it was the same as the colleague Belakovich said that there is a big deal of cheating, I wonder: Why is this not the response of the Social Ministry? It would then be a salad at the Ministry of Social Affairs if they did not get it in the answer to the question. [[Abg. Belakovich: Then ask the Minister of Social Affairs who has answered that!]] I'm rather afraid you're inventing something. And if you say, in the ambulance, the Austrian can see what kind of fraud is happening there, I wonder what he can see there. I think you're working with resentments here, because what he sees in the ambulance may be people who look like they're coming from somewhere else, otherwise the patient doesn't see anything there. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call to the NEOS:Genauso is it!]] So now the fact is: It's about 100 000 euros a year. And now we take a large number of dark ones and say it's tenfold, then we're with one million – but we're now spending the thirty times on the cost, so that we can possibly catch up with this million. They also produce bureaucracy – and this has not been observed – because of 900,000 non-Austrians who are insured with us, of course we have no passport photos and no driver's license photos. These insured persons must go to the National Police Directorate and take these photos. For example, these are commuters who come from Germany, Hungary, Slovenia or Italy every day to work here. They have to get away from work to the National Police Department. These are also tourist workers who are in winter over the season in Pinzgau, in the Paznauntal, on Arlberg. Now the staff there must drive from the ski hut on the Arlberg, away from work, to Bregenz to the state police department. [[Abg. Gödl: I told the committee that that was not true!]] I will come to Mr Gödl, who has told me the untruth in the Committee. I'll be right there. So it has to go to the National Police Directorate, it has to go back, and the employer can pay for it. And the police have 900,000 additional customer contacts and can take care of photos instead of security. Mr Gödl told me in committee: No, no, there's a regulation coming. Just as an Austrian can do this at the municipal office, the foreigners will be able to do so at the municipal office. - It's not legal. [[Abg. Gödl: I didn't say that!]] You said that! [[Abg. Gödl: I didn't say that, no!]] Of course, this is not legal, because a regulation must never be such that the law becomes unnecessary. The law distinguishes between the Austrians and the non-Austrians, and therefore you cannot adopt a regulation which then treats the non-Austrians in the process – so that was not true what you told me. [[Call:Wow]] Then comes the following: Many of these tourists on the ski huts – these are young boys and girls – will say: Oh, go on, I won't happen to anything here!, and won't bring a photo to the National Police Directorate, and – hips! - They're getting sick. Then they have to go to the doctor and the doctor can then take this off with the cash desk with a paper copy. Then we have the bureaucracy at the cash desk and the doctor. That's what you're doing. At less than half of the costs, an electronic solution could have been found: They put the card in the reader, the photo lights up on the screen for a short time – if no photo is placed, none lights up, then you have to show the ID card. So simple it would have been to be less than half the money. But they have opted for an old technology, for higher costs and for the waste of tax money. Why does a government do that?, the audiences ask. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because we work for the population!]] Why do they decide so badly? – Because it sounds good because people want to hear it because it fits into the political marketing! It's just about the show.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12382	I call Mr Gödl. - Please. (Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: But now!)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12407	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated listeners here in the hall and at home in front of the TV screens! I believe that according to the speeches made by the previous speakers – especially after those of my two male speakers Beppo Muchich and Gerald Loacker – a few things have to be clarified. The starting point for this discussion was in the previous legislative period – this has already been mentioned by Mr Belakovich. In fact, it was on the 29th of July. In June 2017, the majority of the decision was taken to take action against social fraud as a whole and in particular against the abuse of e-cards. One of the triggerers was also the statistics that told us that a total of around 200 000 e-cards are either stolen or lost in the year. This is one thing, and the other of course is that e-cards – and there is evidence – are also passed on. At that time, many of the players in this House agreed with those of today, and there was a very great commitment to this decision. It must now be an objective of a government – and this is what we have written in our government programme – and a responsible policy that we not only make systems more efficient – for example, with the social security reform – but also that we make them safe from abuse. Such a case, a special case has already been mentioned by my colleague, I do not need to repeat it. That is why we agreed that this government will also implement what Parliament has decided: With 1.1.2020, all cards that will be re-delivered – by 2023 at the latest – will have to have a photo of the card holder. Today we decide on the legal framework. Gerald Loacker is basically known for his materiality, but there he argues incorrectly and inaccurately, because you only need to read the law carefully: § 31a Abs. 9 Z 2 states: Yes, in principle, people who are not Austrian citizens and of whom no photo is stored in a file must go to a national police management. However, it is also stated in paragraph 9a that, in agreement with the competent Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs may also authorise other appropriate authorities by means of a regulation to carry out the procedure. – Of course other security authorities! I have not claimed that instead of the National Police Directorate, one can use the mayor – this is only true of the domestics – but for those who are not Austrian citizens, a regulation can empower appropriate authorities. [[Abg. Loacker: You should log the Committee...]] To see that this is not so difficult, you just need to look over the border a bit. So, please, a health card, as it is called in Germany, looks out in Germany. [[a sheet of paper on which a German health card, enlarged to A4 format, is shown in height]] That's what she looks like, and what do we see on it? - A photo! And I mean – we're in 21. Arrived century – that it is also possible to get a photo on a map today. If you have an annual card at the ÖBB today, you have a photo on it. If you have another ID or driver's license, you have a photo on it. So this cannot be the very big challenge and cannot be a bureaucratic obstacle if it is already going on and there are cards like that in half Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In conclusion, I would like to address voting behaviour. If it is as it was in the Committee, then NEOS and JETZT will vote against, the SPÖ will vote against, and we government parties will now implement this 2017 decision. This is actually consistent: In 2017, the JETZT list wasn't there – it's consistent when you say you're against the project now. It is also consistent with the NEOS: Although they were in Parliament in 2017, they were not involved in the decision – for several reasons: Care rules and the like; that's all known. So it's consistent if they stay with it now, that's what they have to admit. [[Abg. Worm: But you can also be failed!]] But what is not consistent, dear SPÖ, is to decide first and then act against it later. This is not consistent, and you are continuing a line here, which you have to justify before yourself and which you also have to come into the clean with your members – I am not, after all, Your strategy advisor – because: Just as you, as the only opposition party, voted against the Brexit Act, you also vote against it. In the Biomass Act, you voted against Austria and against the interests of the environment and nature conservation – and now you are again from a justament point of view against the implementation of a decision that you have taken together with us during the last legislative period! – We have to show that, and that is what we say to all listeners. We will therefore now decide on this implementation, because what is possible in Germany will also be possible in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12469	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12490	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Yes, the photo on the e-card is to be introduced to prevent abuse. In principle, I have the greatest sympathy for putting an end to abuse in the social system simply because it is not fair. But if you look at this measure you are proposing today, and if you look at it very specifically, which is the cost-benefit factor behind it, then you just have to stop quite loud. I would also like to justify this. According to the answer to a 2017 parliamentary request, there were 812 confirmed or suspected e-card abuse cases between 2014 and 2016, i.e. within these three years – in three years 812 cases! [[Abg. Belakovich: That was claimed! We don't know if it's true!]] [[Abg. Gödl: The abuses do not report themselves!]] Mr Gödl, the abuses do not report themselves – what is this approach? - That's your ministry's information! [[Abg. Belakovich: Stäger!]] [[Abg. She was still in the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That was your party friend!]] These are also the information of today's Minister of Social Affairs! We don't have more recent figures or numbers. That is all the information to which this debate can refer. Please, raise it if you claim to know it better! If you have any more recent numbers, let us know! Put her in front, Mrs. Belakovich! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Don't claim that there would be a million abuses without having code numbers and having no evidence of them! I would now like to take this into account. You have been employed here, continue to: 812 cases – according to information from 2017 – within three years. If I multiply these 812 cases with the average damage amount of EUR 300 per case indicated by the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, then for these three years I come to EUR 250 000 – and if I still count all the dark figures and all the events with one, we say 300 000 euros in three years, then the EUR 100 000 per year. [[Abg. Worm: Time a hundred!]] [[Abg. Worm: Time a hundred!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Did you also count on the illegal transfer? Have you taken up the illegal transfer, which is what the real abuse is? You didn't do that!]] What you are doing is to create costs of 32,5 million euros by the incredibly many bureaucratic measures associated with the introduction of this measure. Total damage per year 100 000 euros – these are the figures that we know so far about the local health telephone and the Ministries – and on the other hand, costs amount to 32,5 million euros. [[Abg. Belakovich: You say that!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You say that!]] Dear ÖVP, addressed to you – the full economic competence in this area: In 300 years, this measure will be expected. In 300 years! – That’s what you’re doing here today! [[Congratulation with JETZT and the Abg. Kucharovich.]] I feel that what the government is proposing and presenting to Parliament is nothing but the burning of a lot of money on a pile. [[Abg. Belakovich: You protect abuses!]] It would be so much more important to take these funds into account, to give social security funds and thus to allow for performance harmonisation up, because this would be possible with these 30 million euros in the sense of the socially insured people. Estimated Members of the Government Group! We can show together today that the government itself has presented a draft, but Parliament is not simply a voting machine, but we ourselves have the opportunity to think and also to think about whether costs and benefits are in any way in an argumentable relationship. There have also been proposals in the Committee by colleagues Loacker, who have included a digital photo of the people – that is, the card is inserted, the doctor or the doctor sees a digital image on the screen. This would cause a fraction of the costs that you want to decide today, and yet it would be exactly the same measure that would be taken: It could be a social abuse, which may take place, which could be done by car. I would therefore ask you to reconsider this. Hide You are not behind your party leaders, but you are showing that we can better solve this problem that you may recognize here, in a different way, through a smarter implementation and not through this enormous bureaucratic effort that you want to carry out. It is, I believe, our task to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money. To implement a measure that causes costs of EUR 32,5 million, although on the other hand the damage is only a fraction of it, namely around EUR 100 000 a year, which is really not in proportion. [[Abg. Worm: Discouragement, Daniela, for your part!]] – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12701	Next, Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12722	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muchitsch, first of all, allow me to go into the accusation of the Upper Austrian District Hospital, as far as tick vaccination is concerned. You know very well, Mr Muchitsch, that this is a voluntary service of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital, that the self-administration of the Upper Austrian Regional Hospital decided to do so. I wonder – and I also ask you to ask this question: Why do they choose this time now? - Just so that they can blame the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] I guarantee that if social security is merged, this is not the case. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Worm and Belakovich.]] Now on the topic of the e-card: Mr. Muchitsch, the e-card can do anything! It can guarantee security against abuse, and it can also guarantee safety for the patient, the identification, – which has not been mentioned at all at all. This is the basis for the Electronic Health Act. I was in Germany with Health Minister Spahn. There all of us envy for our digitalization projects, whether it be e-medication, e-card or elga. We are a model for all the other countries on these issues. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As for the accusation, the photo on the e-card is not calculated: Ladies and gentlemen, in these 32,5 million euros, e-card roll-out is also generally included. Every five years, the e-card has to be re-rolled for security reasons. That is, the photo on the e-card does not cost the said 32,5 million euros. Please stay with the facts and don't put such fantasy constructions in the room! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References== January 2020 all newly issued e-cards will be shown, and the exchange will be completed by the end of 2023. That is, the mandatory photo on the e-card represents for me a further modernisation process for Austrian health care. The photo on the e-card is an important measure, not only – I have already said – against abusive and unauthorized use. It is not about the number of stolen e-cards, it is about passing on and using by several people. It was one of the most important issues of the To suggest bars, and this is now impossible by the photo on the e-card. The photo on the e-card is equally a relief for the doctors – this is also, please consider! – which in the future will not have to require an additional ID card – and this is often a false information – for the e-card to be assured of the identity of the patients. Around 80 percent of all card holders automatically receive a new e-card with photo without having to do anything. There is no photo of only 1.5 million people in the registers. This number can of course be reduced accordingly by drawing on the Central Register for the purchase of light images. An amount of EUR 13 million is planned for the registration of the photos at the SV services and at the National Police Directorates. Last year, 18 million euros were spoken of, i.e.: We have also managed to act more efficiently, and we have been able to save 5 million euros – that is what we have to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Savings also result from the connection of the foreign register. In particular, for third-country nationals, images available shall be used accordingly. The difference in the presentation of the WFA's earnings budgets, which will always be discussed, is mainly due to the fact that the earnings of social security cover still has to be taken into account by the Minister of Finance. An additional photo-registration rail is intended to create an easy way to communicate as an alternative to Austrian citizens, of whom no photo-image is available until now. The provision of lighting for use on the e-card will be possible at all national social security bodies, and the main association may also conclude additional agreements with the municipalities. For non-Austrians, these alternative registrations will be carried out with the Land Police Directorates – also for identity-fixing reasons. In addition to serious health reasons, exceptions from the obligation should also be possible for the age group from 70 onwards. The Regulation will also provide that persons from the age of 4 are also excluded. Of course, it is also for the over 70-year-olds to have the e-card provided voluntarily with a photo. Ladies and gentlemen, my conclusion on what the added value of the e-card is is: On the one hand, it is the safety against abuse and, on the other, the safety of the electronic health act and the identification of the patient in the doctors.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12831	The next item is the speech by Mr Neubauer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12853	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! For more than twelve years now, the Freedom Party, documented by various applications here in the House, has requested this e-card, which has been photographed. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for bringing this into line and we can now come to the decision-making process to implement it after 12 years – thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps briefly explain why, as today, we actually requested this e-card with photos – the Federal Minister has already mentioned this in a few sentences –: First of all, the thought was always quite, very important for doctors and patients to be sure that the right person who shows up with an e-card is actually in front of one and can also be treated accordingly by the doctor, ladies and gentlemen. This is probably the most important thing in health care, and at the same time it involves a measure to prevent social security fraud. If some of the speakers here today come to the pult and try to talk all of this small, I don't understand. The SPÖ claims today that it had not been an added value. Today! In 2017, the added value was very much given to the Federal Minister for Social Democratic Affairs. I don't understand why it's not supposed to be like this anymore. The parameters for this have not changed. But I also understand why social democracy seems to be no longer in a federal government today, because you are not capable of taking action. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You voted in 2017 and today you say that you are no longer interested. Apparently you have a sluggish syndrome, so that you fall down in lying. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yeah, it'll probably be. But there's no e-card for that, and there's no photo. In order to bring some of the figures that it actually is about, one more detail: Since the existence of this e-card, from 2006 to 2016, 530 000 e-cards have actually been stolen – in other words, a few hundred, ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers, are not talking about it. 530 000 have been stolen and – now it comes – 1.6 million have been lost. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Muchitsch, Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Feichtinger]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] As the Social Democracy and its ministers for ten years have refused to actually raise the extent of abuse, we have never really been able to find out these figures. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Worm]] This is, of course, the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we now expect – and these are the figures of the main association – that the re-exhibition of an e-card costs around 2 euros, then we will only come alone with these figures to 4.3 million euros for the loss. These are the real numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Since we had no real figures in Austria about the actual level of abuse, the Federal Minister in Bavaria, where the Chamber of Physicians has revealed and published a study on abuse. Bavaria is about the same size as Austria, it has only about 2.5 million more inhabitants, that is, one can orientate. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: That's about 20 percent more!]] And in Bavaria there has been a social abuse that has caused costs of about 1 billion euros. – If you calculate this on Austria, you can see about what that means. In view of these figures, these 30 million euros we invest today are a really small amount that we do well for the people of this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I am particularly pleased that we are taking this step today. A photo on the e-card will contribute to health safety in the future. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12942	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e12971	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To be true to the pact and to decide on something is to be done if one pre-negotiablely negotiates it when draft laws go into consideration. That was not the case. We discussed quite a lot at the last Committee meeting on three issues. That was, on the one hand, the photo on the e-card, on the other, your Car Friday half-day murk system, which now in truth means that workers are robbed of a holiday day, and the third was a legal claim to a papal month. [[Calls of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] Yesterday it was also about the non-smokers-protection popular desire. I can only say so much: fall down, Mr Neubauer. Yesterday, however, women's desire was also a subject. In four hours we discussed a number of issues in the Stakkato, making confessions, but it was not possible in the Committee to carry out this four-week right after the birth of fathers and to discuss well with you – because of Pact fidelity. To Mrs. Belakovich and return to the e-card: If you are talking about this abuse and saying that the e-card is passed on constantly, is passed on to and taken there, then perhaps we should all ask ourselves the question of this identity requirement, which still exists. Mrs Minister, you said that the future e-card will no longer exist, but she has not yet been deleted in the legislative text. That means that what you are likely to decide today will also mean in the future that you need a card next to the e-card. And, Mrs Belakovich, if the ID is not required, it may be a little easier to pass on the e-card. This means that everyone should take their noses – also in the ambulances and in the doctor's practices – that you can take this minute more time and show this card with a photo. The draft says that about 1.5 million people, who are not registered with photo, now have to do it immediately, and everyone else will get it from 2020 on. I would like to put the costs in the foreground here again and say that the entire self-government – and that has not yet been said – as it has now existed – and you have spoken of merger, Mrs Minister, I would rather talk about shattering – costs 5 million euros per year. They now create additional 48 posts in song and soundless. The individual officials get more money paid than I can and we can dream of. And these costs, these over 25 million euros, are in no way in any way in relation to the 32,5 million euros, which over the next five years will cost the roll-out of the e-card with the photos that have no identification character. Because it's not in the legal text that you don't need an additional ID anymore. That means we can't agree to that. If it's about Pact fidelity, you should have talked to us, then you should have been negotiating with us. We could've talked about Friday, too. But just before midnight a government template and said to get: [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP]] Read it to you today in the course of the meeting!, something like this has not happened in my 20 years here in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13028	The next item is Mrs Grünberg. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13049	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Most, I almost want to say, almost everyone carries them, many have them in the wallet, as I do, for example: The e-card is now just as self-evident as the bank card or various customer cards. About 25 years ago, the first field trials began, and 20 years ago, the corresponding law was created, followed by a test phase, and about 15 years ago, all the socially insured Austrians were equipped with an e-card. At the time, one of the reasons why e-cards were introduced was to avoid abuse. For example, the e-card replaced, in part, the manual issue of health certificates and foreign health certificates. The reprinting of these paper evidences was probably simple and, for some, apparently too tempting. With the mandatory portrait photo on the e-card from 1.1.2020, one takes another step towards abuse control. The photo is applied in black and white by laser, so that it cannot be distorted or replaced. For example, a comparison – person and photo on the map – is very easy to perform in the pre-room of the doctor or doctor. The effort should also be kept as low as possible for all citizens. Around 80 percent of the population do not have to do anything, because of these there are already photos in existing registers, as photos of passport, identity card or driver's license in check-card format are already available. Social security may access these images and will send the new e-card with photo automatically as a result. Those about 1.5 million people, of whom no photo is stored, have to transfer a photo. This is the case for EU citizens who live in Austria, for example. But even this figure will be reduced, because, as Mrs Minister has already said, social security will also be allowed to access the register of foreigners. In addition, there are further derogations, for example, those that children under 14 years of age are excluded from the photo-compulsory requirement, that in the case of older birth years, exceptions may be asserted regarding the transitional period and that people who are also seriously affected by health who are unreasonable in the application of a photo are excluded. I would also like to stress that digitalisation brings many benefits to people with disabilities in particular. For example, the e-card is already a proven part of the Austrian e-government. The Digital Office project, recently launched by the Federal Government, also offers many benefits for people with reduced mobility. In this way, public authorities can be done from home, laptop or mobile phone easily and accessible. Finally, I would like to say something to you, because I believe that we can all learn something about this: If you have your e-card in your hand next time at home or at your doctor, please look at it more closely or, better yet, feel it. They will recognise the abbreviation SV for social security in Brailleschrift. In doing so, I want to illustrate that it often seems to be small things that can do much and create more accessibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13095	Mrs Nussbaum's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13116	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Seer in front of the screens! I would like to remind you in advance of why we gave our approval to the photo on the e-card in 2017 [[Abg. Belakovich: She wasn't there at all, during the negotiations!]] This was a compromise in the abolition of the care regime. It was very important for us that care rules be abolished in Austria; that was worth it for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That was in the Styria...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But you yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Freeman, know how it is with compromises: You fell by Ceta. The ÖVP colleagues fell into the gastronomy during the absolute ban on smoking. [[Call the FPÖ: Always the same!]] That means you know for yourself how it works. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Always when it comes to e-card, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, talk about preventing the photo on the e-card of abuse in the social system. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is what the colleague Muchich also said, 2017!]] However, I would like to say to you: The first thing is that if the e-card is lost and stolen, it is immediately blocked and can no longer be used. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, all doctors in Austria are obliged to require a photo identification in addition to the e-card. Apparently you don't trust the doctors. Thirdly, the abuse you are always talking about makes less than 100 000 euros a year, that is 0.0002 percent of total social security expenses. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Zarits]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What you want to mess through here – because you have once again introduced a government template without an evaluation – the taxpayers cost 6,6 million euros per year. In comparison: Social security requires only EUR 5.5 million for self-government. – With this amount, you always notice how expensive it is, but in the future you will throw 1.1 million euros more out of the window each year. [[Abg. Deimek: This is the SPÖ problem! She can't even expect additive!]] Let's stay with the self-government: The fact that the Minister of the Interior is allowed to interfere with social security through instructions is extremely worrying by constitutional law. Now again to the photo on the e-card: There are no criteria which photo may be used and how old it may be. The e-card is still no ID card. Doctors must continue to control. – These 33 million euros are simply thrown out of the window; but to throw money out the window, Mrs. Federal Minister, you can do that best, as we have seen in the destruction of social security. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13255	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13281	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. It is a very strange discussion about the e-card with photo that took place here from the last speakers. I would like to make it clear once again – in order to present this to the audience here too – that: Since 2004, we have the e-card in Austria; and since 2004, we are essentially discussing whether it is feasible and feasible to provide it with a photo. I think you'll all have ID cards on which photos are on it. That we need to discuss again today, in 2019, whether a photo should be on it or not, is not understandable to me. Of course, a photo belongs to an e-card, which should be out of discussion. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second point, which is peculiar, concerns costs. In particular, the SPÖ is horribly concerned about the conversion costs of around 30 million euros, which could have been listened to by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Committee and today in her remarks; it is not so hard to understand intellectually. This conversion of around eight million e-cards should have taken place anyway. That is, over the next four years, we will not only get a new e-card with a photo on it, but we will get an e-card with better security features – that is something that would have happened anyway. There is no additional cost of EUR 30 million, but these are the costs that would have been incurred during the changeover. [[Abg. Loacker: Then stop the... bad!]] – Mr Loacker, you can understand it intellectually, you know what it is about. These costs would arise anyway. The third point in the debate, which has also taken place here in plenary for years, is as follows: It should be made clear once again who is paying the health costs in Austria. These are the ones who pay contributions – and that is exactly why the people expressly approve of this measure. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are very happy that we have a functioning health system – in the field of practical doctors, in the hospital sector – which is financed by contributors, and these contributors have a right to receive these benefits, and not tens of thousands who have become horrified and still fall asleep. Now I also come to the figures that have already been discussed in detail. We can appreciate how much it matters. I would like to tell you an exemplary case from Tyrol, because it is also so beautiful to tell you: There is an Austrian citizen over sixty years old who has lived in Turkey for over twelve years. Recently, it was said that she took her mother, who is not an Austrian citizen, with her travels and provided her e-card; she performed operations and, and, and. After 12 years you have come up, more or less by chance; an overaccurate doctor has said: There's something wrong with that! - Well, that was an exemplary case. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Bad example!]] The total damage only in this one case in Tyrol is more than 50 000 euros. And everyone from the circle of acquaintances and relatives knows stories about people standing on the switch and having three, four e-cards. Often you can't pronounce the names, so how do you know if the person in front of you is the right one? – So it's perfectly clear: It was high time to improve things. One thing that mainly disturbs NEOS or social democracy: For most Austrians, actually for almost all, it will not mean any change at all, because the photos are automatically uploaded. That means no one needs to do anything. Today, we have learned – not today, we know for a long time – that there are about 1.2 to 1.5 million entitled persons, of whom there is no photo; that is, you can't understand who that is. The draft law states – and this is also a correct measure – that those non-Austrians should once in principle report to the National Police Directorate and prove their identity there and also bring a photo with them. This is a measure that will not disturb the Austrians either. These over a million people are supposed to make the way to the National Police Directorate, document their identity there with proper ID documents and bring a photo, then it is not at all a problem to have the e-card with a photo; if you are entitled to medical care at all, you will get it. So that's not a problem at all. In reality, however, you are afraid of this very subject. They do not want to see the true backgrounds – not only in this area, but also in many other things. They prefer to keep the lid on it and not to reveal things that are not running properly. That will not be the case with us. I am very, very glad that today, together with Mrs Minister, we are implementing a long-standing freedom call, which is also contained in the government programme. This is a nice day for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13343	The next item is Mrs Schartel's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13364	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned very, very many good reasons why a photo should come on the e-card; I would now like to add one from the practical working world: A photo on the e-card will certainly make it easier for us in the future to assign people clearly. What is the greatest difficulty with an e-card when no photo is on it? – The expansion of the labour market, especially in Eastern Europe, makes it very difficult to distinguish between the name of a female or a male person. You can clearly see this with a photo. Because, above all, the SPÖ is always pointed out that it is a driving force, it will not be negotiated with it: You just have to note that this government is always making decisions in common and in unity, so it is agreed, and that it is therefore not necessary that we continue to engage in a cow trade with you, which you hope you will be able to decide with us. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let's say it again. It is a very important story, because it is not only the safety to recognize which person it is, but – the Minister has mentioned a very important additional aspect – it is, when Elga comes, essential that, especially in emergency situations for the doctor, for a nurse, it is clearly evident to medicaments that it is this person, and that the medi- cation or diseases or allergies or intolerance are clearly appropriate. I'd like to say something: In March 2016, we also made such a request in the Styrian Landtag, and it was unanimously accepted by all the groups represented in the Landtag, including the SPÖ Group, and was found to be extremely good.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13416	No one is reporting on this. So I close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. First of all, the two requests for referral must be put to the vote. As regards the draft law in 497 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Members Muchitsch, colleagues and a referral request from Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 497 of the Supplements to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I would ask those members who are in favour of this referral request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 497 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also agree to this bill, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[13:52:23]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 565/A by Mr Peter Haubner, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christian Ragger, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law, which regulates the federal law governing the transfer of workers (Law of Workers – AÜG) BGBl. No. 196/1988, amended (498 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13496	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13523	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We change the subject and come to the area of temporary workers. The image of this industry was not always the best in Austria. The social partners have asked themselves what it takes to improve the image of the industry on the one hand, but on the other hand also to improve the working conditions for people in the industry on the other. One of the essential tools for this is continuing training, and therefore a social partners agreement has led to a social and training fund that can benefit temporary workers when their leave relationship has ended. I think both sides could be very proud to have reached this social partners agreement, and we also see that the instrument of this continuing training and qualification is very, very well accepted, because despite the high level of economic activity – that is, the economy is brumbling, many companies employ their temporary workers, of course, over a longer period of time – this instrument is increasingly being asked. This criticism now comes from the government parties in the committee: Well, what do you want? If we make a law, you want a social partners agreement when it comes to the social partners, you want a law! - We want a strict procedure. What you do is: If it is for the benefit of the workers, you give it to the social partners and say: Power!, however, blocks in the background, as we know, many things; and if it is for the benefit of the economy, then we cannot see as quickly as the law lies in the house. That's exactly how it is in this case: Once again, without consideration and contrary to the will of the social partners, a law will be passed here which will reduce the contributions to the Social and Training Fund, although in your home, Mrs Minister, a study of this fund we do not yet know. This means that without data-based analysis, something is done one-sided again. Whoever I am really disappointed with is Mrs Graf, because she is one of the social partners. You have negotiated this fund in your responsibility as a social partner, and you know that this fund was only part of the agreement and that another part would have been a foundation. Now to accept this bill, to ensure that, contrary to the will of the social partners, the decision taken here in this House is a massive breach of social partnership culture and tradition. [[Abg. Haubner: They won't be there any more anyway!]] That's what's happening in this house today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have another dissertation, further fracture lines: Mr Gerald Loacker also wants further training to be available, but his proposal is as follows: I have my personal backpack, that is, I always pay for my account personally. – Do you know what the difference to our position is? – This fund offers a unique opportunity, namely what is important to us in social democracy: Equal opportunities. There are people who simply have worse starting conditions in life; not everyone has had the opportunity to make a reasonable training. This fund makes it possible to recover accounts, not depending on what someone has in the account, but regardless of what they have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are concerned that people who want to have this strenuous opportunity to develop, regardless of where they have been socially employed. There should be this possibility for everyone. The fact that FPÖ has nothing to do with such a thing as equal opportunities and fair opportunities in life shows the press release of Mr Ragger, who would like to see the Fund removed. Finally, to say something compatible – Mr Wöginger is unfortunately not in the house –: Of course we support colleagues Wöginger - - – Ah, there he stands! [[Members of the ÖVP point out that Abg. Wöginger, who talks with President Sobotka next to the government bank.]] Of course, we support colleagues Wöginger in his call. Since you have proved here again and again how strong you are, I assume that you will agree to our amendment. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is, we would create what you have called for, namely that people have the opportunity to get fixed into an employment relationship after 18 months. We support you in this demand. But we also expect you not only to make one request, but also to stand by it at the end of the day and to take this decision with us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13702	The amendment which has just been tabled is currently under negotiation. Mr Ragger is next spoken, but he is not there. [[Call the SPÖ: Is not important to him!]] I call Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13731	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Mr Vogl has made it clear that we are dealing with the labour law, and in concrete terms we are dealing with these continuing training and social funds. First, however, I would like to say that workers' leavers have now become a very important industry; they are now an indispensable service for the economy. I believe that we agree, too, because with almost 100,000 temporary workers in Austria, the industry is making a turnover of 4.17 billion euros and thus an important and decisive contribution to the economy. Thus, it is also indispensable for the location Austria in this form. Time work has become a very important service, and entrepreneurs are also happy to use this offer to cover their peaks of orders in times of increased demand. In the AMS, too, workers' leavers are now a non-significant factor, because over time they find their way to employment, jobless, long-term unemployed or re-enters. When we look at the figures, we see that it is a fact that today almost every fourth time worker left behind is also taken over by the respective company and thus comes into a direct service relationship. That is a gratifying and important fact. We have been aware of this and have set ourselves the goal of bringing unemployed people into employment as quickly as possible, and that is why temporary work is a possible way to a fixed job for us. Now I come to the fund, ladies and gentlemen, to the stressed supplement and to maintain the present status. I would like to point out the sensitivity of the SPÖ and the trade union here, because I believe it is true that you have not always followed the path. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] I can remember how many times before the election the joint has been strengthened and then left the common path. Secondly, I believe that it is also not for us to always work with regulations and to build up new barriers again and again. That is why I say quite clearly: We stand to relieve instead of burdening, ladies and gentlemen, that is our way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to stress once again that this is a supplement to employers' contributions. In other words, workers pay employers' contributions like everyone else, and they pay a supplement that currently amounts to 0.35 percent. We are in favour of this award being maintained, but it remains at the same level. I think that's very important. When we look at this fund, we see a reserve of 26 million euros at the end of 2017. I believe that if we continue to pay into these funds, we will continue to be able to do this fund well in order to continue to implement the necessary measures that this Fund will allow. However, we may be able to think – and that is why it is so important for this evaluation to take place at the moment – whether we can talk about the de minimis regulation and the funding services that companies can take into account is not always the amount of the contribution payment. So there we would have needed action, but I am in favour of the fact that we should not continue to burden workers who do excellent work for the economic location, but should remain at the level of the contract so far. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13800	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13832	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The money in the Social and Vocational Training Fund for temporary workers is paid by the temporary employment companies, and – as Mr Haubner has done in a clear and understandable manner – these are low-cost wage additional costs that land in this fund. Because the fund is a misconstruction, within four years it has accumulated 30 million euros of assets that have not been allocated to the real purpose. Of course, money arouses desires, and so all of a sudden the administrative costs have multiplied; the ORF “Report” has already reported a case of fraud with SWF money. At that time, when I brought these funds' reserves to light with my parliamentary requests, Social Minister Stöger made the proposal to temporarily reduce the contribution rate – that was what ÖVP contributed at the time – now it has to reorganise its own decision from then on – but yet there is still a million money in this fund. Now, and that is good, the contribution rate is permanently reduced. But this does not solve the problem, which only relieves it, then it does not hold so much money in the fund that has actually missed its goal. What would have to do then is contained in § 22f Labour Law. There it says: ‘The Federal Minister [...] shall dissolve the Fund if [...] the purpose of the Fund is not achieved.’ It does not say that the Minister can disband the Fund, but the Minister has dissolved it! So Stöger has not legally dissolved the fund, but has allowed it to exist, and Minister Hartinger-Klein, too, legally leaves the fund to exist and does not disband it. But this is all normal in Austria. They also do not legally appoint the Pension Insurance Commission, although you have had to do so for a very long time. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein.]] We know what's going on in this government. Kickl has said that the right must be followed by politics rather than politics; therefore it does not matter if ministers do not comply with the law with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13880	The next item is the speech by Mrs Graf. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e13901	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! As an entrepreneur and expert in the industry, I am already very surprised how little the SPÖ stress party has to do with the importance of temporary work in 21. At the end of the century, in times of flexibilization, globalisation and digitization, has understood. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Heavy worker!]] Just as the load SPÖ is acting, we are only going to create additional loads. My colleague, Mr Haubner, has already mentioned a number of important figures and principles relating to the transfer of workers. I would like to stress very clearly the economic and labour market contribution of this sector, which is why the figures and facts are very brief and clear. [[Abg. Vogl:... chance for people, this is about people!]] The workers' leavers employ almost 100 000 people and generate a turnover of 4.17 billion euros, with more than 1 billion euros in tax money alone in Austria. They bring people into employment every day, more than 50 percent of those employed by the AMS agency find a new job over the time work, almost every fourth is also taken over. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] The precise use of employees through temporary work is very important for the companies to cover their increased labour costs. The workers' leavers are the only industry with a social and training fund and pay millions for it. They now stand here and explain to us that the suspension of an increased additional wage burden is not justified, although the Fund has a balanced delivery and at the end of 2017, as Mr Loacker has already said, has a deposit of more than EUR 26 million, knowing that the Fund has developed into a fat savings book through the de minimis regulation already mentioned by Mr Loacker or Mr Haubner and also through the performance order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Abg. Vogl:... Foundation would be necessary!]] It seems as if you – then the Social Minister Hundstorfer and his successor Stöger – have arbitrarily determined the contribution rates without any knowledge. Now we have an experience, and it turns out quite clearly that the fund is obsolete – and the SPÖ is voting against it. They have tabled an amendment, and I should like to comment very briefly on this amendment, because it is already unique in its irony and in its scrutiny. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] The SPÖ submits an application to the Committee that the proportion of time workers left to work may not exceed 10 per cent of the total workforce and that entrepreneurs must take over every temporary worker after 18 months. [[Abg. Vogl: Exactly!]] Now I'm already asking the question: If you are so concerned about employees and training, why do you make such a curious request? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Heavy worker!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] With your application you signal one: that you do not want employees to get into employment, or a maximum of 10 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is exactly the same as in connection with biomass plants: They don't want 6 400 employees to keep their job. They also do not want entrepreneurs to be able to respond flexibly to orders. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Thirdly, this is the correctness in your request: You also seem to wish for a reduction in revenue for the fund, because that is exactly what means a limit. 10 percent of temporary work means that only 10 percent are paid in the funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] So I have to say, I believe that the only thing you want is to get ahead of the workers and the employers. I am of the opinion and I believe one – is it okay for you if I continue to speak? – and I am absolutely convinced of this: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] As a stress party, SPÖ does not bring any expertise on the subject of work at all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am really pleased that our Social Minister will now evaluate this fund together with us, because our motto should continue to be: Instead of burdening! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14088	Next came Mr Hörl's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14148	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! When I look at the discussion: A little bit has already happened to me that many of you on the long and great career leader, on whom you have gone up through the party, have lost a little of your relationship to the modern working world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Schieder.]] The great distrust of the entrepreneurs then comes out most, Mr. Schieder – yes, ski tours are going well! – when the working world changes when we are in the modern working world. [[Abg. Schieder: How to go on a ski tour...!]] For this reason, the funds already described by my previous speakers have been set up by dog pedestals for safety reasons, because something could happen if something changes, there is a need to make a safety net. Today, we have a fund – Mr Loacker is perfectly right – that is filled. I think it's right that we don't work there cost-effectively. With regard to your amendment with the 10 percent: How do you explain to the little carpenter who has three people your idea of a maximum of 10 percent rental workers? Is there just the hands and the feet and the body staying at home? Or how's that going? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] But what's very important to me is: I think we should clarify the terms here: This is, as Mr Graf has just said, a very important part of our economy. There's also the mail. Dear colleague Muchitsch, you should take more care of the people who come through the posting to us – at least 350 000 people, people who work specifically on construction. I was quite amazed, I had a construction site two years ago, had commissioned a Tyrolean family company; of the 40 employees were 15 Zillertalers and Tyroleans, the rest were Portuguese who worked on the weekend, 12 hours a day. I had this checked twice by the labour inspector, it was all right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] – Please take care of these people, because on this eye you are, I think, totally blind. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] It must be borne in mind that in Austria we are very restrictive in terms of form of work. For example, cooks, carpenters, installers and so on may work independently in Germany; on the other hand, with us: Woe to the entrepreneur who employs such a self-employed cook, waiters, installers because he thinks about the free movement of the labour market – the thunder god of the operating test brings in! Ladies and gentlemen! We must accept the new, modern forms of the labour market. The competition of global development will in any case force us to do so. I think we should reduce the distrust of our Austrian businesses, especially you from the Social Democracy, and we should take more care of dubious foreign companies that convey imagers. [[Abg. Arbitrators: How about the real...?]] Mr Muchitsch, why does your trade union say that it is too expensive to complain of up to 10 000 euros in Portuguese and Polish companies? [[Abg. - Who says that?]] But the locals will be cut on it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this direction, too, your Social Democratic Lighthouse, which I have always told you, aims at the wage and social dumping law, which, after the last ECJ decision, only meets the local companies. Dear colleague Muchich, dear Beppo, what do you think about Kirchdorf? Do you know yourself there? That's because your construction union has a 35 000 square meter plot, where SPÖ members, trade unionists and so on - – - Kirchberg was that, excuse me. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the 1960s, 35 000 square meters of land were purchased in Kirchberg, where there is a 3-star hotel as a union home, where party sizes – your party sizes – have been on vacation, 50 percent discount was normal. The result: The house is closed, it is closed, 25 employees were canceled last year. What's going on now? – Sell now You have the 35 000 square meter plot on a Vienna Bautycoon – I could call you the name – and he wants to build a hotel with 500 beds there – 500 beds, because this would undermine the threshold for the EIA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] A good plan! There, chalets, apartments for German and Dutch people, investor models are to be created to maximize profits; everything we want to reduce in Tyrol is to be created there. Your construction-wood union, where you are the long-term waiter, bought the area in 1966 and now sells it by 17 million euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] No speech of workers' apartments, no speech of 5 to 7 euro apartments, no talk of social housing, but a return that accounts for more than 80 percent – respect, Beppo Muchich, respect! As a final rate: The old, traditional worker greeting friendship sounds like a dangerous threat in the face of these business methods and would allow whole flocks of hedge funds – I am talking about Bible locust swarms – to escape envy. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I can only say: Friendship!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14292	Mr Muchitsch spoke on an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I assume that you know and approve the provisions for an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14337	Mr Hörl, you are speaking here and spreading things that have nothing to do with the item on the agenda and, secondly, wrong - - I am correcting. [[Abg. Singer: How do you talk? Is that a correction?]] Don't get upset like that! - Easy, easy. [[Call:You know the Rules of Procedure...]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Time is running!]] [[Abg. Wöger: What did he say wrong?]] I'm correcting: The property in Kirchberg in Tirol is not owned by the trade union Bau-Holz, but by an association. [[Abg. Nehammer: SPÖ- nigh!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This association is called Sozialwerk Bau-Holz. - So, point one. Point two, to correct: Mr. Franz Hörl, just because there your elevator doesn't go up and you don't profit, you don't have to try to fit me in here. You don't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14443	Mr President, please respect the directives on actual corrections.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14458	To produce itself here and to talk about wage and social dumping: Dear Franz Hörl, take your whole group by the nose, do something for this labor authority! [[Abg. Stefan: What kind of correction is that? What are you doing?]] [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Do something like consulting instead of punishing, but don't put yourself here – to the detriment of the workers of this Republic! This is actually a pigry.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14505	Mr Vogl has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14529	Mrs Graf has said here that we have proved with our request that we have no idea of the temporary employment sector. I'm actually correcting: It is the ÖAAB-FCG with its chairman Wöginger, who has this claim and obviously has no idea of this sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14557	The next item is the speech by Mr Ragger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14590	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I can apologise for the time being, and I can now repeat my speech. If we are talking about the Labour Force Law today, we have to say that somehow it is really cool what the Socialists are producing. [[Abg. Lightenness: Better speak in good time, that has failed!]] Let's talk to Tacheles about what you've developed with this fund: On the one hand, we have an AMS which is responsible for training and development. On the other hand, as one always does with the Social Democrats, one begins to construct slyly parallel structures for other areas, in order to certainly provide for one's own people as well. At the time, this was the case with the Labour Force Leave Act. One has created a fund, the SWF, and – and this has to be broken down on the tongue – the employers are obliged to pay. But those who are allowed to determine it and who are allowed to pay it and who are allowed to decide on the training, are members of your trade union, namely the PRO-GE, and that is what we have written into the law. Then they said in a row: But now we do not want to give all the money back to employers and those who do the training, but we limit it again! It was limited in this respect when two managing directors, who got a good, fat Gage, were installed and focused on promoting only very small businesses and setting the ceiling at 66 000. In other words, the employer, the worker, is allowed to pay, may only use limited funding for his training, and at the end of the day, in the end of the day, does not have the opportunity to recover what he himself has paid. In my view, this is not only a contradiction of equality, but also a very clear distortion of competition between small companies and larger companies, and we have taken this into account. We have to thank the Minister for the fact that, first and foremost, we have stopped the increase – that is, that this fund is being bloated even further – because we already have more than 20 million euros in it. It has also been seen that the BUAK, whose chairman is Beppo Muchich, wanted to make a contract to blow up this fund even further to increase it even further to get the money out; on the other hand, it is seen that these funds could not be used for training opportunities. Now you have to be so honest and sometime ask: What do you want? Do you just want to build structures to provide your people with security, or do you really want to help the workers? For me, training means, at the end of the day, that we also have safe jobs in the context of job creation. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You must therefore also understand the emotion in my broadcast when I say: Then we'll break up the fund! – Of course, it is at the discretion of our minister and also of the Council of Ministers, which will happen in the future, but I think it is important to think out loud about whether at the end of the day the structures will be rebuilt or whether they will be transferred to the AMS, in which you have very clear, structured rules, through which the money comes to those who are training, and also to those who have paid it. That's our intention and that's free handwriting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14633	Mr Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14661	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, spectators! Apparently it is necessary to remind the government parties that there are not only entrepreneurs in Austria but also workers. [[Abg. Belakovich: Really?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No longer in the SPÖ, there are only more officials: union officials, workers' chamber officials, party officials!]] One has the impression that only the interests of entrepreneurs are always represented and never the interests of employees. I have to point out very clearly – and I am very consciously saying this to Mr Haubner, and I am also saying this to Mr Karlheinz Kopf – that: I have a social partners agreement – from 2017. [[keeping a copy of a document in height]] [[Abg. Belakovich: From when?]] The social partners, namely those who recognize themselves there – entrepreneurs who work in workers' leavers who take responsibility there – have said: We want to upgrade this industry! [[Abg. Haubner: Yes, eh!]] Workers in temporary work, who have difficult working conditions, have to adapt flexibly to new conditions, and employers have recognized that they need appropriate training; therefore, because they have thought in the future, they have been willing to set up the Social and Vocational Training Fund. The Social and Vocational Training Fund was able to train more than 20,000 people in temporary work, 500 of them also completed a complete professional training. Exactly these entrepreneurs, Mr. Fachverbandsobmann Ing. Siegfried Frisch, head of the association Thomas Kirchner – probably those who are well known in the industry – have signed an agreement and it was the basis for the legislation of the legislator in 2017. [[Keeping the copy of a document in height]] [[Abg. Belakovich: That's old!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who was the Minister?]] You're changing this one-sided today. It'll be anytime now. Is it true in the future, Mr Secretary-General, that everything you make up with the Chamber of Commerce will then be changed in Parliament? [[Abg. Haubner: That was quite another thing!]] Let's go in this direction, shall we? That was 2017, exactly this scheme; until today, there has been no negotiation with the contractual partner. [[Keeping the copy of a document in height]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, the shadow government has chosen, I'm sorry!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Don't be sorry, work! Don't be sorry, work!]] Is this the process of cooperation and cooperation? - I don't see it like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tanja Graf.]] Secondly, All rental workers know that this is temporary, and therefore it is precisely the case that the number of people in temporary work is limited. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: A little more appreciation!]] Our proposal is therefore that after 18 months of activity in a company they have an individual right to take over, and that is exactly what we demand. Ask a temporary worker in the industry – everyone will say: Yeah, that's good! Ask If you are an employee or an entrepreneur, whether it makes sense to have more than 10 percent of employees in temporary employment in a company, then every thinking entrepreneur and every employee will tell you: 10 percent of employees in temporary work is enough, everything else is surrounded! [[Abg. Haubner: Freedom! Freedom of decision, colleague. Freedom of decision!]] In this sense: Support our requests!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14866	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 498 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Vogl, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Members of the European Parliament have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 1 and 2 of the previous paragraph 1 and the amendment to the previous paragraph 2. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - It's not accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[14:27:38]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 575/A by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a Federal Law amending the Labour Peace Act, the Holiday Peace Act 1957, the Bakery Workers' Act 1996 and the Agricultural and Forestry Workers' Service Law (499 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Ernst Gödl, Dr. Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Labour Peace Act, the Bakery Workers' Act 1996, the Holiday Peace Act 1957, the Land Labor Law 1984, the Judge and Public Prosecutor's Service Act, the Law on Agricultural and Forestry Workers' Service and the Law on State Teachers' Service (500 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e14973	We now come to points 6 to 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15002	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not begin my speech for the first time with my own words, but with the words written by you on the part of the government groups some time ago in your government programme; there you write: “We are working constructively on solutions for the benefit of all Austrians and are discussing hard and honest in order to achieve the best results.” – So far as ÖVP and FPÖ’s government programme is concerned. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] What do we see today? What are the best solutions for Austrians, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ? – In fact, the removal of a holiday for all workers in this country! [[Abg. Wöginger: What do we do?]] That is what you seriously call the best solutions and results for workers? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Is it not, rather, the best results for industry and the economy that save themselves a high two-digit million money from the solution you have found? It is a result that you put on the table here, which, in the light of the far more reasonable proposals for solutions, which are already available, appears very bizarre and bizarre. However, as a black and blue federal government, as so often in the last 15 months, you also refuse to engage in dialogue with the workers concerned. They refused the dialogue with the experts in this country, and you refused the dialogue with the democratically elected parties of this House. That, according to the observation, goes through every 15 months of your previous reign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This arrogant refusal of dialogue, which you consistently show here, has led to the end that in the end it has not – and this too is an observation that we do not make for the first time – come to a common, reasonable, viable solution for all in this country. No, it's not a viable solution – and it's certainly not a solution for everyone. What happened? – Another broken promise of yours. Chancellor Kurz and his Chancellor's Minister of Justice, Blümel, claimed that no one in this country would be taken away at the beginning of the debate on Car Friday. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes!]] [[Ho-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] And what happened now, ladies and gentlemen? – You have deleted a holiday, a holiday that has already been full for a religious community in this country. [[No-run at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Avenauer: When the ECJ says that...!]] The result is an increase in the number of workers in this country and a kneeling in front of the economy of this country, which we do not see and hear for the first time since your start of government. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Who's free on Friday? [[Abg. Wheelers: The SPÖ!]] – Neither the evangelical citizens of this country nor those workers who have long been regulated in their business agreements, in their collective agreements, that the Car Friday is considered a holiday. [[Abg. Haubner: But you never supported them!]] You are no longer free now, and you have taken away this holiday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do you offer, ladies and gentlemen? – They seriously offer to take their own holiday, which each and every one in this country, as a so-called voluntary holiday. To take a holiday, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need a black and blue federal government, really not! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] [[Abg. Rädler: There you need to talk to the Doskozil!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: What do we need then? A red one?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Where does that end? Where does that end?, I wonder, but that is what many people who have contacted us about this. How's that going? [[Call the FPÖ: Ask the Doskozil!]] Do we soon have to take a holiday for the voluntary Christmas holidays? [[Abg. Rädler: What does Doskozil say?]] Do we have to take our holiday days for Easter holidays? Is this your constructive government, is that the new style, is that the change it is to be made in our country? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: What does Ludwig say?]] I'm telling you what this is, that's the black and blue solution according to the motto: The most important thing is, the economy is fine! You have to leave one thing: They're consistent. This is your recipe for success. They are consistent when it comes to dealing with deterioration for workers in this country and simply driving over the rights of the hard-working people who work every day and at night. There they are! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Who wrote this speech?]] They are also consistent when it comes to allowing the Austrians, who, as far as the overtimepensum is concerned, to continue to work in Europe in the future, and they are also consistent in dealing with the interests of millions of employees in that country. [[Call:Even on holidays]] Yes, and I wish I had the same consequence from you as the responsible Federal Government when it comes to solutions in the field of care when it comes to necessary solutions in view of the lack of doctors when it comes to solutions in the area of housing when it comes to solutions that people in this country need when it comes to non-smokers protection and their health. [[Abg. Rädler: We are Parliament!]] [[Call:Yes, Mrs Health Minister]] In this respect, however, the bank you are pushing out on cannot be long enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Justice has given you an elf-meter – an elf-meter where for the first time in these 15 months you would have been able to meet workers a bit far. You did not take this path, you clearly chose a different way. Yes, you have gone out on a holiday for everyone and a holiday. Give They return to people a holiday that they have earned through their hard work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15313	Mr Rosenkranz has been spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15334	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Rendi-Wagner, President-in-Office of the Council, that at the end of the day you will also have I find that after 15 months of this government and the decade of your government and responsibility for it, I have mentioned the lack of doctors and the mistakes in housing policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15361	For a moment, please, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank you very much for the beautiful Taferln, I ask you to pack them again. They are very nice, we have seen them all – please pack again. Thank you. [[In the direction of Abg. Heinisch-Hosek, who keeps her sign forward with the back:]] It's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. - Here you go. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15390	Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you have addressed the programme of this Federal Government in terms of constructive solutions for the benefit of people in that country. But you didn't say one thing: On the question of holiday arrangements, on Friday or Similarly, in this government programme, there is nothing in it than an urgent plan of this federal government. [[Call at the SPÖ:This is a very patched argumentation!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The fact is that the European Court of Justice, a court of the European Union, has shown discrimination on the basis of a complaint from Austria, which has also been filed with the legal support of the Chamber of Labour, and that a person who has been a member of a religious community has been better placed than anyone who has not been a member of a religious community. It was an atheist who tried this claim. So, and now we have to find a solution, and this federal government – and this is most disturbing to you – brings this together in this strenuous situation. You know, Friday is not at some point in the year, but it is relatively soon, so you will soon need a solution in this regard, and therefore it has also been worked on with high pressure. [[Call the SPÖ:Since when do we know that the Car Friday...?]] We originally wanted another solution, which would have been better from our point of view and would have enabled many people who had worked on the day of the week – in commerce, in shifting – to earn more. That these people deserve more, they didn't want to. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] We have taken note of this, and we have also contacted the representatives of the churches on the last weekend, especially as it concerns religious holidays. It was until last, until yesterday afternoon and until the night's formulation, that it was working on creating a draft law, which also withstands the issues of possible discrimination. That's all that happened, with the following advantages: There is a personal holiday within the framework of the holiday quota, on it you have a legal claim and do not have to respond to the agreement with the employer. [[Abg. Easy: Personal! Personally!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: One could also be another highly personal holiday...!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: personal holiday, look here, great...! A most personal holiday, wouldn't that be an idea?]] – You can come with your ideas! I know what your ideas are, your ideas are: 365 holidays, in the leap year 366, with a basic income for all! That's what you imagine, but it doesn't play. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:So I would be for a most personal holiday!]] Should the employee choose to work on this personal holiday anyway, he will receive the full holiday supplements and the holiday - - Yes, he will also receive the money most personally. [[Call the SPÖ: Most personal!]] You can then be highly personal and present your utopias. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] I'll tell you one thing: This government does not only look at the interests of workers because the economy works in such a way that employers and employees are in a boat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kristist]] [[Interlocutory calls from Members Knes and Stöger.]] This is illustrated in the work of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You're talking about hot ice slugs, but you're not really bringing anything else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] What you want would lead this republic, that state, to the edge of the ruin, because you actually promise only things that no one can keep. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call at the SPÖ: I would be most personal...!]] So, and now we have a solution that does not discriminate against all the holidays. [[Abg. Wittmann: You've been better before!]] [[Call: Well, it's enough for you.]] – I am very sorry, because of the many calls and the opposition speeches that have been made here, it is difficult to keep the level and not go down to yours. It's really hard! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Since you can still allow your party president to spend so long in any training on party history in a folk college, it won't be better with you. This is the finding that citizens regularly issue to you. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Drozda:... a carnival speech, deputies! ...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Call: Madam President]] This arrangement has been drawn up in agreement with the religious communities, and therefore there is the corresponding consensus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] And as with all that you do in this government work – where the destruction threatens, where democracy goes away, the constitution goes away, everything goes away, only more slavery reigns – applies: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] The worst, the proof of truth always occurs in the application, and there we have experts. The employees, the workers, can test this scheme as early as next Friday, due to the short period even with a transitional period; it can be reported two weeks before, so that everything works. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Until the next election, people will see the same as at every point that this government is working on: This country is better lifted with Turquoise and Blue than with you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] What's the name of the old proverb? – It is better to trust a dog with a crack sausage than the SPÖ the regulations in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15692	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15713	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! To start with the positive: The half-day solution, where the second half does not start at 12 o'clock, but at 14 o'clock, is from the table. You can praise that now. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, but for that he is highly personal!]] But that was it with the praise, because what we get now, that will still drive funny flowers. Imagine, you have a company with 200 employees: There you have to manage 200 personal holidays; but these are 200 other personal holidays next year, because you are not forced to take the same day each year. [[Abg. Stefan:... Manage holiday days!]] [[Abg. Mölzer: Holiday days must also be managed!]] If They have 5,000 employees, then 5,000 will have different personal holidays. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] And you should be aware of this already, if your staff goes on holiday for 14 days and then has to come in except in exceptional terms, then it should be clear whether this was such a personal holiday or not a day of the 14 days when he comes in. [[Abg. Rosary:... register before!]] – Yes, he has to declare that before, that’s why it has to be clarified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] This law is again discriminatory, because now collective agreements are prohibited, which provide holidays for members of Protestant religious communities and the Old Catholics, but if, for example, a collective treaty had been set up for Muslims or for members of the Jewish community, it would still be allowed; even if it were to regulate only Catholics, that would be allowed. [[Call the ÖVP:We don't have it!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Is there not!]] So you didn't get it clean again. What you've caught clean – and that's the political marketing of this government; valued audiences, marketing is the most important thing for this government: [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The marketing name “personal holiday” even creates the entry into the law; this word is now in the law. [[with both hands indicating quotation marks]] – You got it clean! And you've done something else – that's what we're especially used to in the black sector with turquoise paints –: The officials are excluded from everything. In fact, there has been the rule since 1963 that federal officials are free on Friday afternoon, and of course that remains so. There is no equal treatment of workers and employees in the private sector and those in the public service. The blacks already see their game getting the right thing and keeping the privileges; and the Ministry of Strache is doing well what the blacks would like. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a social partnership agreement!]] [[Abg. Loacker: (on the way to his seat) But that was the... car Friday too!]] [[Abg. Rosary: He's discriminating! That's not what we decided!]] [[14:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15947	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e15968	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Yes, fact is, there is an ECJ judgment, and this says there should be no discrimination for ethical and religious reasons. We now have to implement this judgment; we do so in the laws and in the collective agreements. Until now, members of some religious communities have used an additional holiday tailored to their religion. In short: 96 percent have taken 13 holidays, 4 percent have taken 14 holidays. This inequality has been criticised by the ECJ, and this is what we are doing today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] And if the colleagues from the Social Democracy are really doing this for a religious holiday, I'm telling you: I've been in this house for almost two decades, and I've never experienced this all the time, ladies and gentlemen, that you've been on a religious holiday for everyone. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] So far, you have only criticized all the solutions and made no contribution to a solution, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] That is why I would like to say one thing – even if it might call for an order, but it doesn't fit as well as this –: What you're doing here can't be outlawed by hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have – and it might also be a more accurate one – volume is not an argument, Mr colleague. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... Absolution again!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Knes.]] In this respect, I would also explore the dual role of the Chamber of Workers: First of all, by supporting the action before the ECJ, it brings down for decades a proven holiday solution, ladies and gentlemen; and now it criticises the solution necessary for its activities which brings equal treatment and legal certainty. [[Abg. Lightenness: So is the complainant guilty now and not the perpetrator?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I think you can say the double agent's degenerated. In the trade jargon that means: You've been flying, ladies and gentlemen, you're unbelievable! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have now done nothing but create justice; we have made sure that everyone has the same number of holidays, and in the future everyone can use a day as a personal holiday as part of the existing holiday claim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Knes and Mr Wittmann.]] We have also provided this with a unilateral legal basis for workers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Loacker, if you are leading the holiday administration as a Strapaz, I must tell you – and this will also be confirmed by Mr Schellhorn – that: Every entrepreneur and business today has a modern record, a modern holiday management, where you can probably integrate it perfectly. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Loacker and Mr Rosary]] [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] As you can see, the NEOS Economic Party is not very flexible in this respect, we very much regret it; but we have taken action to create equality and justice for all, and this solution has succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. Nor am I – and I say this as a representative of the economy – to say that it was important to us that we put on the table a reasonable compromise and a Salomon solution to a complex issue. [[Abg. Wittmann: There was his speech to the Rosary...!]] There is now simply a very clear plan, which on the one hand does not overpower the economy and thus also secure jobs and, on the other hand, ensures the necessary legal certainty for the people of that country as regards the free exercise of religion. I think we have taken a right step for each individual's personal freedom of choice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... always abstruser!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we did not wish for this judgment of the ECJ and we did not choose it; it is up to us to implement it here, and that is what we have done with this solution. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16140	The motion for a resolution tabled earlier by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs. Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16166	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Klubobfrau--
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16249	I may ask the Minister to start again, and I hope that she will now be given hearing. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16264	Thank you many times, Madam President. Mrs. Klubobfrau, if you think that's an elf-meter, I'm wondering: [[Call the SPÖ:Second chance!]] Why Have You're not already using this Elfmeter? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They had already had the opportunity – before the ECJ decided – to find a solution. You didn't use these. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This government also proves a constructive solution. [[Call the SPÖ:... new access!]] In this amendment, we have made equality-compliant arrangements, which the workers concerned – Mr Colleague – hear. [[Further call to the SPÖ]] Please! – continue to allow the full exercise of their religious obligations. [[Abg. Singer: A Ruah is here now!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Woman club woman, make sure you're okay!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: I've never heard such a nonsense!]] Both the members of the Protestant churches and the Old Catholics and the members of the Protestant Methodist Church have a legally binding right to a holiday that they can use to free on a day that is important to them. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Mr Lueger.]] For all other employees, the number of holidays remains unchanged. You can free yourself on another important day without having to agree with the employer. Do you not understand this chance that workers will have the opportunity to agree without the employer's consent? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, please understand one – and I say this deliberately here as Minister of Labour: Who's doing the job? [[Call the SPÖ:You!]] Who's doing the job? [[Cheerfulness and other intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Sorry, who's doing the job? – The economy creates work, please notice! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] The entitlement to pay will not be shortened, even for the workers. That is, when working on this day, the double fee is due as well as on holidays. This government therefore makes both possible: the best solution for workers and the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16439	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken. – You did register for 8 minutes, but you only have 6 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16461	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow citizens! The Friday rule and the government – I have the feeling that the two will no longer be friends. But let us look at the matter in detail, as well as it is still possible in my speaking time! First of all, the ECJ repeals the current Austrian regime because it is discriminatory. What does the government do that now has the opportunity to create a holiday for all Austrian workers on Friday? – She does exactly the opposite! It cannot accept that there could suddenly be another holiday, with the argument that the economy would suffer too much. [[Call the ÖVP:... Flip...!]] – A killing argument, one can only call it: The poor economy must be able to live. As Mr Schellhorn said on Sunday in the “In the Center” program: How has the economy benefited from the current policy so far? – Yes, what is the introduction of the possibility of working up to 12 hours a day or up to 60 hours a week? What will help up to 96 more hours in the annual average? What helps the loss of smooth-time supplements? What is 430 million euros per year for accident insurance, which will save businesses in the future? [[Call to the ÖVP: Unemployed Insurance Contributions for Workers!]] What brings companies a significant gain in social security at the expense of workers' representatives? All these questions have been raised. They're just peanuts, a drop on the hot stone! Or, as we will see in the future: [[Abg. Rosary: Who says that, who says that? Is that what the government spokesman Schellhorn says?]] What is a reduction in billions of profits, for example, in view of the halving of corporate taxes for undisclosed profits? Every still so small form of social compensation is swept away and suppressed by your federal government and by your work here in Parliament – that is what you do! [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. Jarolim.]] It seems to me that you are considering every political action you put in here, how you can achieve that people have to work even more than they do now. This is the approach to any political decision. As Mr Rosenkranz correctly said: The FPÖ wanted people to earn more when they work in the afternoon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] And then you said, but you don't want these people to earn more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] – So I have never heard of you as clearly a reference to your coalition partner as this one. [[Abg. Rosary: No, no, that wasn't the coalition partner! You must have listened to my second sentence, but you are not able to do that!]] [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in his ears) That is...! That's better!]] So quite honestly: In any form of politics, including this day-care scheme, Mr Rosenkranz, it is bad if policies are dominated by dogmas. And the dogma that this government is persecuting is that, if it is possible, it is in favor of the economy and at the expense of people who are self-employed and employed outside. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] That is what your government policy is in the current situation. That was already the way it was on the half of the holiday, and it is now on the private holiday. This is nothing but the possibility of taking your own holiday, and that has been possible so far, because you do not need an explanation. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] [[Abg. Rosary: With supplements...!]] And if you announce this early enough, it was already difficult for the employer to step back and not to grant it. [[Abg. Rosary: Are you really intellectual or are you serious about this?]] [[Call at NOW: Rose wreath, you must...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Does the...?]] If you want to delete an existing holiday, generously allowing people to take their own day of holiday instead, then the economy also agrees with the Church in an unholy alliance, then this throws such a thing of a bad light on the entire solution, which is only too difficult for the working people out there. I can't support that. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] And why does it support the Church? – Yes, ora et laboratory, pray and work! Who needs vacation? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So I cannot support this measure you are taking here. This has nothing to do with the interests of the workers out there, and I would also ask you to consider thoroughly, because that really has neither hand nor foot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16665	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 6 to 8 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:08]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance concerning “Real-mighty discharge offensive instead of show policy and broken election promises!” (2929/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e16695	Ladies and gentlemen! We will only be able to deal with the written question 2929/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17069	I give the floor to Mrs Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger as the first questioner to justify the request in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. You know: 20 minutes. - It's going on!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17091	It's going on! – Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! It's going on, once in a while, with a different subject. We interrupt the monothetical charge of the government parties with the same security, immigration and asylum theme forever, because we want to get away from the headline actionism that we have experienced over the past few months, towards real structural reforms. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They have announced major reforms. They have come to overcome the standstill, the standstill of the great coalition. You can believe me, that's quite a point I can win a lot. They have announced major reforms, but instead they dominate the policy of FPÖ with the recurring topics. After 15 months of government work, we are impatient. Finally, we want a discharge of the middle class, a discharge of people and the structural reforms that you have promised. [[Abg. Little: Where do you live?]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. tiny: family bonus, hello?]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have a huge approval, which you very much like to appeal to. This is an obligation; an obligation to put in place the measures necessary to relieve people in order to open up opportunities for young people in the sense of young people and to bring about real future-oriented reforms. [[Abg. Bösch: That's what we do!]] Tax payers have already made their contribution. They almost went into intermediate performance before your performance. In all tax classes there have been massive increases in recent years. Austria's revenue has become more and more powerful in the Austrian wallets over the past decades. Tax revenue, for example, has almost tripled since 1990. Wages – this is, of course, positive, but – have more than doubled at the same time, and the consumer price index has increased by 175 percent at that time. The figures from the annual success of the previous year also speak a clear language in this context: With economic growth of 2.7 percent, income and wealth tax growth was 5.3 percent and tax growth was 3.4 percent in consumption and transport taxes. Thus, whether in the case of purchases via turnover tax, in the taxation of salaries via wage tax, in the taxation of businesses via corporate tax, or in the taxation of savings through capital income tax, there was sprinkling revenue in all tax classes. The question is: Has this economic upturn, which is obvious, come to anyone except the Minister for Finance? Given the incredibly favourable conditions, a largely balanced budget could have been presented in 2018, perhaps even. This is what the Fiscal Council also sees in its report on public finances. In 2018, as in part in the years before, you did not have unforeseen events. So, thanks to God, there was no necessary bank rescue, there was no massive refugee crisis last year that would have forced extra expenditure, and it was also to be thank God not to counter any financial crisis. So you actually had the best conditions: exploding revenue, thriving growth. Nevertheless, you have not managed to present a balanced budget here. I would like to go back to the previous period of the Minister of Finance Schelling, who was actually on an expenditure brake: minus 0.6 percent. Since 2018, federal expenditure has increased again: plus 2.6 percent. But the revenue – plus 4.3 percent – in the federal budget, which saves you, so to speak, the positive budget balance. I think we have already mentioned this in the context of the budgetary discussions here in the past. So this, Minister of Finance, is not art now! We urgently need a brake on expenditure, because there is no confidence that expenditure problems will continue to be addressed accordingly. And Austria has an expenditure problem – obviously no revenue problem. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They themselves often say: save in the system. Only: Where, that's an open question. [[Abg. Wöginger: Everywhere!]] - Everywhere? Today, we have extra spending through the incredibly important measure of a photo on the e-card. You have announced today that you will no longer match the promotion of parties every five years or then, if inflation allows it, but now by 2 percent each year. [[Abg. Wooker: Instead of 8 percent!]] They also get into the control pot! You don't save in the system, you'll find out what's going on. That is, honestly, what we are currently experiencing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You've announced a lot in the election campaign. Sebastian short promised savings of 14 billion euros. The FPÖ has, I think, promised a little lower volume of savings; I have not got the number there. They both promised to abolish the cold progression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] I think I need you. Don't read your government program about what you've got in there. You like to stick to the government programme, it will be treated by you as a Bible, but you have remained guilty of bringing real solutions here. You write correctly: ‘Austria has the sixth highest tax rate in the world.’ Further: “The Federal Government has therefore set itself the goal of reducing the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent.” – Under 40 percent, that would once be an ambitious goal! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Actually on 0 percent!]] “The financing of these discharges and the necessary measures will be done through expenditure savings and structural reforms.” – Where did they happen? [[Abg. Rosary: Set the tax rate to zero and at...!]] Here's what it says: ‘A simple tax law’, ‘tax relief for businesses and relief of the labour factor’, ‘a reduction in additional labour costs’ et cetera, et cetera. Instead, we have a headline actionism and announcements. We have also experienced only announcements on such an essential issue as human discharge. Now – and this is the point of urgency here – we are in the situation that we have known since the last week that the European Central Bank will not raise the key interest rate – contrary to the hopes and expectations of many. That is, the cold expropriation of the savers will continue. This is practical for indebted states, because one can make virtually further fine debts at the expense of the next generation, but the people are expropriated. That's the one point. The second point is that this clearly also involves a worse economic outlook. They only need to be reversed once in the context of international companies; this does not only concern Austria. Due to the risks there are, of protectionist policy, of a trade dispute, of a trade war of Donald Trump with China, of instability in Europe – which the nationalists here in the house like to fire – there is a more negative expectation. That is to say, the economic situation is going to fall apart. You always have to be very careful because I already know that this is also a game. This is a sensitive question of expectation and mood. But you should be blind, not to see that it probably doesn't go so well. That is, now is the time for discharge. You have now had a phase with good economics, have not managed to present a balanced budget at this stage, and you do not manage to relieve substantially now. That's definitely too little. What are we talking about on this question? – I want to sketch a few things: On the one hand, and this is very important to me, it must be possible again for people, especially the medium-sized, to build up at least a modest wealth through labour income. There are some who want to redistribute wealth. There are some who obviously want to preserve wealth for a few. I believe that our approach is to enable people not only to gain their lives through their labour income, but at least to develop a modest wealth – perhaps also with property. To this end, they have to relieve the factor of work radically, and radical discharge means: less than 40 percent! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I mean, it's also a question of the country's future ability, when we talk about automation, digitalization, the concern of many – which we can only understand on a conditional basis – I have to say, because new jobs will also be created – that here jobs are lost, that we say, in such a situation, we continue to burden the labour factor too high. The entrepreneurs tell you every day. They would like to recruit more employees, they also need them – in part they don't find them because the skilled people are missing, which is also a consequence of a constantly xenophobic policy – they would like to recruit them, but say that the employees cost too much, but also deserve too little because they are taken too much. So: Disbursement You have the labour factor massively by a significant reduction in wage and income tax and, of course, also by reducing additional labour costs! Create Turn off the cold progression – now, because that's what you promised! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You can't make promises that don't keep you. You move it to the next legislative period. We do not know how the economy will be then, perhaps this has been postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. The second issue, which is very, very important to me, is that we allow for generation fairness. The question of tax reform is also very much linked to the opportunities that young people and also medieval people have in our country. [[irradiated]] It is the middle class, and it is also the generation of the Middle Ages, which are heavily burdened by the system. They carry through the tax payments they make, everything that happens all around. They pay it because they carry the active pensioners, and they pay it because they have to take care of themselves and also know – incentives are missing, that is an essential point – they have to take care of themselves because otherwise it will drive them into an poverty of old age. That is, that's really a part of this rushhour of life, where you're heavily burdened. The boys also know it won't go out for them. In the sense of a generation fairness, you must also remember to take part in the reforms you are dealing with, the opportunities of the boys. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There are several points: I have already said that I can make private provision. Strengthening the capital market is a very important part: If you want people to build something, at a time of low interest rate policy – I mean, the prices of the dwellings will not fall – then you need to strengthen the capital market. That is, we need to talk about reintroducing the speculation period or taking other measures. This is the only opportunity we can allow young people to achieve something in any way, so to speak, next to the income of labour. It is also very important to me: It is a matter of course that we need to think about ecologizing the tax system not only, but also act accordingly. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is a question of fairness to the young, to say that we are putting in place steering measures here, which will create what we will not only do through innovation and progress, namely leave an intact environment and an intact climate. There are possibilities to do so without making the site so to speak, uncompetitive. There are possibilities to make this even non-conventional. Look at Sweden! Sepp Schellhorn has also presented a model, and I'm sure we'll talk about it. The discharge of companies is also only promised. We haven't really heard any specifics about this either. We talked about red tape last week. Today we are talking about the fact that a holiday – an individual holiday – will probably lead to relatively more bureaucracy in the companies. [[Abg. Wöginger: Here you will have to explain why you do not go with it!]] We will then continue to discuss this after the urgent procedure. [[Abg. Little: We are already digital in the companies!]] But it is mainly a reduction in additional labour costs and, above all, an incentive for investment and for money to be left productive in the company. In our opinion, that would be the priorities you need to set. Yes, to do that, you need to achieve a volume that really allows for a proper discharge, expenditure-side reforms; without them it will not go. It needs an administrative reform, a federalism reform is needed. It needs more than a combination of social security funds on paper, it needs a real hospital and health reform. [[Abg. Little: You can start with it in Vienna right now!]] There is a need for a reforestation of the funding jungle, and of course it needs – and this is also a question of generation fairness – a pension reform. This is only fair to the old as to the young and the medieval who wear this system. I've already said it: All this requires courage, that is clear to me, but you have taken action to overcome the standstill and to deliver here. They look forward to having enormous support in the population. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is an obligation – an obligation not only to do the popular but to do the right thing in the sense of giving people a discharge and in the sense of a fairness of the next generation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17332	Mr Löger has been reported to speak. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear guests at the gallery! And a warm welcome also to the spectators at home! Let me begin by saying that I was quite annoyed if the urgency of the NEOS' request, because you yourself, Mrs Klubobfrau, a few weeks ago, when there was a current hour on this subject in this House, meant that the subject was not up-to-date or not so up-to-date. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Scherak.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I would like to send you the minutes of my speech!]] Now, suddenly, there is a urgency in connection with the discharge of Austria. But I'm with you that it's quite time. As you yourself say, it is not often enough to talk about the possibilities that this government has not only discussed, but has also implemented and has already brought discharge to many people in Austria. In this way, we will take advantage of the opportunity to reflect the subject again today in this form. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The principle question on discharge in Austria is as follows: It is the basis that this government, in an election promise and also in a government programme, sets out clear definitions of how we can make sure that the Austrians have more money netly available per month in order to be able to organize their lives on their own, more valuable and better. So, in my view, this is a common goal that may not have been observed on your side. I can only reflect on the concept of show policy that you use in your request. The nice thing is that in Austria, thank God, many people in every form of your income also feel and experience that there is already relief. Ask the 950 000 families in Austria with children already with the family bonus Plus from 1. Januarys can be expected up to 1,500 euros net more per child per year! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ask the approximately 450 000 low-earners, who have been since 1. Last July, by reducing unemployment insurance contributions, there was a considerable relief in this area! They can also ask for a backbone of the Austrian economy, as has been achieved by a reduction in sales tax, which also makes sense, in the area of tourism companies, especially in this area of Austria, and by strengthening the economic location and many hundreds of thousands of jobs, which can also benefit indirectly from it. That is what this government not only suggests, but already makes and what is noticeable. I'm just wondering why you haven't arrived. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] Let's go one step further! What is the point if you may say: Okay, that's not enough relief yet!Unknown term type: "%s".? I also give you the right – perhaps also to your surprise – that is not enough. That's why I declare this as well in the current hour a few weeks ago: We have the next steps, we have the next waves not only in planning, but in preparation. We will fix this topic in the next few weeks, also on the basis of political discussion. In addition, there will be a further tangible discharge of around 4.5 billion euros for the Austrians and also for the economy. In this context, I would like to thank you once again for having the opportunity to take a closer look at this subject. As of January 2020, we will again have the opportunity of having those people who have a low, a small income, also through a reduction in health insurance contributions, to have noticeably more money net in their pocket. In addition, we will make it possible to combine micro-enterprises with a simplification approach. These are more than 200 000 entrepreneurs, who will also feel significant savings in tax consulting costs. These are the measures we have already declared. These are the measures that will significantly further relieve around three million people in Austria from January 2020 onwards. This is our implementation. If you want to understand this as a show, I have to tell you, I can't understand it. I think the people in Austria feel it and have earned it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We will also, in order to continue in the field, allow for a reduction in income tax rates in 2021 and beyond. We will focus on small and medium-sized incomes. Especially where demand is strongest, it will become felt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We will also promote the economic location by allowing relief in the taxation of entrepreneurs, because through jobs, through investment, they ensure that there is social security in Austria. At the right time there will also be an additional relief in this area. If you are not patient – as you have declared yourself – then I can only tell you one thing: You, from one of my view liberal economic party, are already starting to question – you yourself have made it a bit self-critical, self-fulfilling prophecy – a very positive growth and economic situation critically, and are asking in advance whether the Austrians or the companies in Austria are able to achieve this in the form. It's you. We continue to receive a good basis from many economic forecasts and we can trust that we can benefit from growth in the next few years in order to have a positive development in the area. A last sentence in the introduction before I address the very urgent almost 50 questions of yours: Broken election promises – the opposite is the case. Yes, we are referring to the discharge measures that we have already decided on, which already work, and to the discharge measures that we will implement in the next few years in stages, the framework of which has already been decided in concrete terms. We will fulfill our election promises. I have mentioned it at that current hour, which I have mentioned several times: The total relief for Austrians will have a volume of more than 14 billion euros until the end of the legislative period. This is proof that election promises are also being fulfilled and that this federal government consistently implements them. That's fact. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak: What about the cold progression?]] May one not happen: that your forecasts or your downfall in the Austrian economy and growth – something I would least expect from you – comes true. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: We also read business news!]] May we also be able in the area to consistently ensure that growth continues. At the same time – and this has always been important to you – I know that is also our common goal – we will ensure a sound, good budget and financial policy for Austria. In spite of a slightly lower growth approach in 2019 after 65 long years, Austria will for the first time conclude with a surplus. We will therefore finally draw a final line under decades of debt policy. That's our promise, too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meel-Reisinger: Bissen cheap, huh? That's really cheap!]] I will try to answer very quickly the questions we have received in the form of this urgent request this morning. However, I allow myself to bring together the questions in a sensible manner, as there has been some sort of redundancies. Questions 1 to 4 and 6 summarized: We currently have a range of forecasts of research institutions and international organisations for 2019 in Austria. Based on these forecasts, we expect real economic growth to be between 1.6% and 2 percent, which means growth between 3.6 and 4.1 percent in nominal GDP. The economic impact on government revenue and expenditure also depends on the concrete causes of the downturn. There is therefore no linear economic assessment in the area. We have applied a common formula in the European context for calculating the impact of the economy on public budgets. For Austria, this means that a change in gross domestic product, the so-called output gap, affects the budget balance by about 0.57 percentage points. Most of the impact is on the revenue side, while only a small part of unemployment insurance is on the expenditure side. Questions 5 and 7: The EU fiscal rules and the internal Austrian Stability Pact are based on economically adjusted budget balances. Therefore, economic downturn would not have a significant impact on the financial viability of the tax reform or the abolition of cold progression. As Austria has achieved its medium-term budget target thanks to its careful budgetary policy, there is also a large security gap to the 3-percent deficit mark. Thus, the current planning would not be at risk even if GDP growth in 2019 would be 2 percentage points lower than in 2018. Question 8: The current economic environment has no influence on the general considerations for a constitutional debt brake. On the question 9: The government programme provides for the introduction of a constitutional debt brake. At the beginning of December 2017, the European Commission presented a proposal to transform the Fiscal Pact from the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance into an EU Directive, as originally foreseen. This initiative would have meant a comprehensive need for reform for national regulations. On the side of the Federal Ministry of Finance, it was therefore decided to wait for the outcome of the discussion at EU level. [[Abg. Scherak: You could actually do it in the next legislative period!]] The European Commission proposal would not have led to a 1:1 implementation of the Fiscal Pact. Based on these developments, the BMF continues to force internal preparatory work on a constitutional debt brake. Questions 10 and 11: With the 2018 budget implementation and with the first budgets presented, the Federal Government has clearly demonstrated that it has taken a course to consolidate expenditure. This is also clearly demonstrated by the evolution of the expenditure ratio. According to Statistics Austria 2016, the expenditure ratio was still 50.3 percent of GDP. In 2022, under the current Federal Financial Framework Act, only 46.9% of GDP will be available. This comparison between a continuation of the expenditure ratio from the beginning of 2017 and the planned expenditure ratio 2022 shows that a double-digit billion is actually saved. Question 12: Payments in the financial statement in heading 0.1, law and security rose by EUR 90.2 million compared to 2017 and by EUR 108.4 million compared to the Federal estimates in 2018. By the way, the data are shown in the December 2018 monthly success report in Table 2 on page 14, and I also agree that a few days ago, in the context of the Committee on Budgets, there was the opportunity to discuss these points in depth, and that these points are therefore already answered from our point of view. On the question 13: The disbursements in the financial statement in heading 2, labour, social affairs, health and family rose by 985.2 million euros compared with 2017 and fell by 40.1 million euros compared to the Federal estimates in 2018. The data are shown in the report on the monthly success of December in Table 2 on page 14. Question 14: The disbursements in the financial statement in heading 3, education, research, art and culture, rose by 194.2 million euros compared with 2017 and fell by 48.6 million euros compared to the Federal estimates in 2018. The data – I do not need to repeat this – can be found in the table already mentioned several times, which has also established the basis for the Budget Committee. Question 15: The disbursements in the financing statement in heading 4, economics, infrastructure and the environment fell by EUR 4 093.5 million compared to 2017 and by EUR 86.2 million compared with the Federal estimates in 2018. The data – if I may mention it again – can be found in the table already addressed. Without a bank settlement account sub-division 46, the breakdown is probably 46 financial market stability, the disbursements in heading 4 increased by 581.5 million euros compared to 2017 and decreased by 116.7 million euros compared to the Federal estimates in 2018. On the question 16: The disbursements in the financial statement in heading 5, cash and interest rates increased by EUR 128.1 million compared to 2017, and fell by EUR 487.6 million compared to the Federal estimates in 2018. You already know the supplement set. It should only be noted: in Table 2 on page 14. On the question 17: Without consideration of sub-division 46, financial market stability, there has been higher disbursements in all categories compared to 2017, this is a plus of EUR 1 979.1 million, a plus of 2.6 percent. Compared to the Federal Estimate 2018, in all headings except heading 0.1, there has been lower payouts, in total minus EUR 584.6 million, a minus 0.7 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] On the question 18: Saving in the system is a basis that finds its precipitation in all sections – but of course at very different heights – and shows itself in all areas. Questions 19 and 20: The path to reduction is indicated and transparently comprehensible in the documents submitted to the National Council on the budget 2018 and 2019 and also in the Draft Budgetary Plan 2019. The clear trend towards a reduction of almost 42 percent to 40.9% is evident on the current basis of 2022. In fact, however, this value will be significantly lowered, taking into account all currently planned discharge measures, including those under the Austrian relief programme. On question 21: The first measures, such as the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions, the reduction of the turnover tax on tourism and also the Family Bonus Plus, have already been implemented in the amount of around 1.5 billion euros. This means that these measures will already work in 2019 at the latest. In addition, a discharge volume of around 1 billion euros under "Relief Austria" will be added in 2020. I believe that my introductory remarks have also confirmed this. By 2022, the total volume of relief will then increase by 3.5 billion euros, and the total amount of redundancies will therefore amount to over 6 billion euros in total. Questions 22 and 23: The financing of the tax reform package “Relief Austria” will be achieved through expenditure discipline, a strict budget implementation, additional savings also in the rich administration and promotions as well as measures leading to greater tax justice. In the area of fiscal justice, an Austrian digital corporate tax is also to be introduced, which we have decided within the framework of the government clause, taking into account, in this respect, what is decided in March of this year under the Ecofin towards a European digital tax. An information obligation will also be introduced in the area of sharing economy. In the field of online shipping, measures are to be taken to secure tax revenue and to ensure fair conditions of competition. For this purpose, the current exemption from VAT on low-value imports is to be abolished, below 22 euros. More revenue of around 200 million euros per year is expected in the field of digital taxation, and the detailed presentation of this increase will also take place within the framework of the WFA. Question 24: The Government template on the Social Insurance Organization Act includes an impact-oriented follow-up cost assessment. These are estimates of the financial impact of this reform project, according to which efficiency gains are assessed by structural reform in 2020 by around 99 million euros, which increase to around 433 million euros by 2023. On question 25: The Federal Government has already implemented initial measures of around EUR 1.5 billion. Already mentioned several times: the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions, the reduction of the turnover tax on tourism, the family bonus plus. The Federal Government continues this course with “Relief Austria” with the Council of Ministers Decision 41/13 and initiates a comprehensive and sustainable discharge programme, which will be implemented in three stages by 2022. In concrete terms, the following measures will be planned: in 2020: Liberating low-earners, debureaucratisation and an expected ecologisation of the tax system you are referring to; in 2021 and 2022: an additional relief of wage and income taxpayers through the tax rate, the attraction of the economic location to safeguard and strengthen jobs and simplifications in tax law. I think it is very pleasant that you give us the opportunity to answer your urgent questions. You can't mention these things often enough. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] “Relief Austria” is thus the basis for a new and sustainable redistribution from the state to the citizens and entrepreneurs, starting from the years 2020 to 2022, in addition to 4.5 billion per year, and also ensuring that the budget implementation and the surpluses, and thus the basis for the decommissioning of Austria, are guaranteed and secured in the coming years. This is also the basis of a fair-generation agreement for all people in Austria. On the question 26: As early as the first phase of implementation of "Relief Austria" from 2020 onwards, measures will be put in place to ecologize the tax system. Measures from the Austrian climate and energy strategy are at the heart of this. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Great reading!]] The aim is, among other things, to create environmental incentives in the area of mobility and to favour less pollutant vehicles. In addition, tax adjustments are also planned in the areas of photovoltaics, biogas and hydrogen. In addition, books, newspapers and magazines will be subject to a reduced tax rate of 10 percent for ecological considerations and also for the purposes of equal treatment, even if they are purchased in electronic form. It also applies to the implementation of the appropriate measures without burden on taxpayers; an honest discharge to the past and to the use of the last decades. On the question 27: The #mission 2030, the integrated climate and energy strategy, decided in the Council of Ministers on 28 November. May 2018, provides for a set of counter-productive subsidies that oppose climate and energy objectives, together with the associated implications for Austria's economic location. A working group, including representatives of the BMF, the Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism and the Ministry of Transport, has been set up to draw up this list of subsidies that oppose climate and energy objectives, including a presentation of the implications for the Austrian site. At present, it is being examined which promotions have whatever impact and, where appropriate, could lead to an end. The result is intended to serve as a starting point for the elimination of these counterproductive incentives and incentives. On questions 28, 29 and 31: In the sense of redundancy, I refer to the answer to question 9. Question 30: This volume can be achieved by limiting the growth of public expenditure. Further analyses are also being carried out with the other ministries as part of the BMF's donation review. On questions 32 and 35: In connection with the measurement of the cold progression, there are various concepts and interpretations. In general discourse, the adjustment of the levels of income tax has crystallized at certain intervals according to the development of an appropriate index to increase prices. Estimates show that increasing the levels of the income tax rate per percentage point would cause inflation costs in the order of around 250 million euros. Two tax reforms entered into force between 2009 and 2018, each involving several measures to reduce the income tax rate. These reform measures have offset the effects of cold progression in recent years. In 2019, the already mentioned family bonus Plus was introduced with a gross effect of 1.5 billion euros or a net relief volume of about 1.2 billion euros. In the period up to 2022, a further tax reform will take effect, which will once again reduce the tax rate. Since the cold progression depends on future inflation by 2022, a detailed indication cannot be made in this form and calculation at present. On questions 33 and 34: In the period covered by the question, the income tax and the wage tax were distributed according to the uniform key, taking account of income and income-related transfers to the federal government of around two thirds and to the countries and municipalities of around one third. The proportion of countries is around 21 percent, that of the municipalities around 12 percent. On questions 36 and 37: Also for the years since 2016, the countries and municipalities with about a third of them are involved in the income tax and the wage tax. However, since the current financial compensation period applies only until the end of 2021, the share in the years 2022 and 2023 will ultimately depend on the regulations of the next Financial Balance Act. On the question 38: The reform projects contained in the government programme have a multiple impact on the federal states as a result of the existing linkage of tasks and financial flows. For example, the government programme provides for the increased integration of tasks, expenditure and financing responsibilities, the reduction of transfer flows, taking into account the interaction in financial compensation, for example, the harmonisation of health and care funding lines, and the prevention of overlapping competences and parallel structures. Implementation of constitutional reforms has already been initiated by the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice. In the financial field, the forthcoming financial compensatory discussions for 2021 will be an appropriate framework to address the concerns of the Federal Government regarding sustainable reforms. Question 39: That is where I refer to the answer to question 30. On question 40: The Coordination Committee shall meet regularly for the exchange of information and also for the fulfilment of the coordination tasks set out in the Austrian Stability Pact. It has last been in a very constructive way in autumn 2018 and will meet again in spring 2019 after preparation by the civil servant level at political level. The mutual information and coordination in the ÖCC makes an important contribution to the common fulfilment of the objectives of the Austrian Stability Pact and thus also of the EU's fiscal rules through the federal, state and local authorities. Question 41: The short-, medium- and long-term impact of individual measures depends on numerous assumptions to be made on individual lives, such as employment status, life expectancy or, for example, the previous and future basis for contributions. Such flat-rate statements with regard to possible effects of an increased retirement age cannot therefore be made. On questions 42 and 43: In the government programme, the Federal Government is committed to a stable and sustainable pension system that maintains the standard of living in old age and remains affordable for individual generations. Among other things, there is a forward-looking and efficient economic and labour market policy, which guarantees a long duration of employment and contribution. Of course, the Federal Ministry of Finance is very concerned about the development of the pension area because of its budgetary importance. On question 44: The lifting rates can only be changed on the basis of a new law. An appropriate legislative initiative is not currently under discussion. On question 45: The meetings of the Pensions Commission shall be convened and chaired by the Chairman of the Commission. Since his or her appointment has not yet taken place, no statement can be made until when the Pension Insurance Commission is constituted. On question 46: This depends on the constitution of the Pension Insurance Commission. Since the appointment of the chairman has not yet taken place, no statement can be made until the retirement insurance commission is established. On question 47: As already stated in question 24, the Government template on the Social Insurance Organization Act includes an effective follow-up cost assessment. These are estimates of the financial impact of this reform project. According to this, efficiency gains will be assessed by structural reform in 2020 by around 99 million euros, which will increase to around 433 million euros by 2023. Question 48: On the basis of the charges calculated by the Federal Ministry of Finance according to a uniform key, the contributions of the Federal Government will be calculated in accordance with § 57 para. 1 C 1 and 2. In addition, these contributions are paid to the national health funds. Question 49: In the interests of the people living in Austria, the Contracting Parties have agreed on federal and state and social security measures to consistently continue the health reform started in 2013. This means that the set-up target management system for the management of the structure, organisation and financing of health care is continued. It also aims to ensure that public health expenditure is developing at the same time as nominal economic growth through agreed expenditure ceilings. This will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Austrian Stability Pact. I hope that the questions we received this morning at 10 a.m. are answered in detail in the time available. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's the way it is!]] I hope that the patience of NEOS will not be strengthened. However, I also ask that, as we wish to keep this debate in good memory, we also remember the discussions in the Budget Committee and the discussion at the current hour. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Very many content approaches were not there!]] That's what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17699	Mr Schellhorn has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17720	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! One somehow has the impression that you feel hit on the slips whether this urgent request. I can tell you from the entrepreneurial point of view that it is very important to deal with the figures. I come to a few answers to questions that we have asked you, but the economic principle of an entrepreneur is also very important: Save in time, then you're in trouble! Or: We're not going to sell a deficit as a surplus. I believe that responsible policy is very important. I would like to show you how honest it is to talk about a double-digit billion in the legislative period in your answer to question 10, which refers to statements made by the government parties in the election campaign. Both parties, the Turks and the FPÖ, have adorned themselves with a discharge of 14 billion to 16 billion euros per year – and now, if we are lucky, almost two-digit billions will be granted within four or five years. That's what you mean with respect to honesty. You have to deal with numbers quite openly. As regards the answers to questions 12, 13 to 16, you already have the issue that you did not have the bank rescue this year, but the bank rescue saved you that you have also achieved surpluses in these headings or lost nothing by the bank rescue either. [[Call at the ÖVP:Ha, ha, ha!]] These are the gags we're talking about, these are the PR machines. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have to say quite honestly – and I am also interested in this as an entrepreneur and I am interested in the entrepreneurs and, above all, the taxpayers who are now sitting in front of the television screens, who are probably also making the tax declarations that make your work: They have a problem with the fact that these announced major reforms, with these annual EUR 14 billion to EUR 16 billion, have actually ended up in a Micky Mouse tax reform. This Micky Mouse tax reform reminds me a little of the history of the tank crackers. - Yes, it is. The hobby of the tankcrackers, which I have chosen, is: Forge plans that don't work. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] I can give you that. [[Abg. Little: The stork goes...!]] This is also true, namely, to announce what we cannot do anyway. That's a subject that's very special to me. Now I come there because your Secretary of State has also announced in an Ö1 “Morgenjournal” that this tax reform, which is now coming, is in the double-digit billion area that the cold progression is now being abolished, not at the end of the legislative period. What has been spoken here is blatantly wrong. Obviously you overrulted him and obviously that was the PR-smear and the gag of the FPÖ. I would now like to come to one point, one of the major promoters of the EIA, who are still proud of it. In the “Small Newspaper” Stefan Pierer told about the winning premium for his employees in an interview. After all, he has given all his employees – very loyally, one must really say, very pious – 2 700 euros in prize. The stupidity is only, of these 2 700 euros profit premium, only 1 300 euros have arrived at the employees. More than EUR 1 300, i.e. EUR 1 400, have landed with you. A few hundred of them in the Ministry of Finance, a few hundred in social security, a few hundred in pension insurance; we don't want to talk about family compensation funds and housing support. [[Abg. Rossmann: Classical service provider contribution!]] – Service provider, yes. Mr Finanzminister, you have said that the public taxes have developed very dynamically. - Yeah, that's what I want to come back to. Yes, public taxes have developed very dynamically, plus EUR 662 million in corporate tax, plus EUR 179 million, i.e. around EUR 180 million in income tax, plus EUR 177 million in wage tax, plus EUR 172 million in capital income tax, plus EUR 60 million in standard consumption tax and EUR 57 million in basic income tax. That's dynamic. Unfortunately, it is only an operational accident of the Ministry of Finance that applies to you and not to taxpayers. That's the subject. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You're doing pocket-player tricks by taking it out of the pockets and giving it back at some point, perhaps at the end of the legislative period, just before elections. I find that objectionable. This is not an honest policy. If you promise that you will return 14 billion annually to taxpayers, then you should do the same and not hold them at fault. Minister of Finance, economic growth was 2.7 percent. Tax growth was due to income tax plus 8.3 percent, plus 7.2 percent on wage tax, plus 15.6 percent on corporation tax, plus 11.6 percent on capital income tax, plus 3.5 percent on sales tax, plus 13 percent on NOVA and plus 9.3 percent on basic income tax. Economic growth: 2.7 percent; that of tax revenues and assets is actually twice as high as 5.3 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Now we can talk about various points, I can also read the election programme to the FPÖ again. What I'm talking about is honesty in politics. I'm a taxpayer and I expect you to finally do something for my employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] For the lower incomes have You did something, I must express this praise to you, you also did something for the families, but the area in the middle was not relieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger]] The problem is that these people who pay strong taxes can't save property – that's the core problem – because they're taking too much away from them through the cold progression. Get rid of the cold progression! The cold progression has already been announced: Grasser – who is now busy with the courts –, Molterer – is the European Fund – the Minister of Finance Pröll – who is grinding a little flour – Mrs. Fekter – who has returned to her sand and gravel boutique – Mr. Spindelegger – who cares about migration – and Finance Minister Schelling, who has also been very violent about it and is now at Gazprom. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] - I'm excited about what you're gonna do. But one thing you can't imagine to taxpayers, namely by promising something that you don't comply with. I think it is now time for discharge and that now the cold progression has to get away because we have a low interest rate policy. Your topic is simply that you are saving yourself a bit in debt and hence in debt as a whole, because we have a zero interest rate policy. Imagine that the interest rates would rise – then your entire card house would collapse. I still believe that what you sell us as a tax reform is a Micky Mouse reform. The tank crackers will eventually tell us what happened to us and what happened to you. I believe it is very important that you give people the faith that you give the people who really pay taxes back the faith. They must have a vision, that is, the vision that not everything will be pulled out of their pocket, but that they can save property. That's an important mission. You have to face this responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17825	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e17847	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been thinking about what I'm doing to raise the urgent request a little bit, as it's almost impossible to outdo a month ago, as Mrs. Mienl-Reisinger said: [[Abg. Sherak: You won't succeed, Gust!]] “I have to give my previous speakers – Mr Gudenus not, Mr Krainer already [...] – that the topicality is not quite what is happening to me.” – That was within the framework of the current hour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Because it's announcements!]] Today, not even four weeks later, we need a urgent request, so it must be dealt with urgently so that we can talk about what this Federal Government is doing in the context of tax relief. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen from NEOS, you do not have to do one thing: worry about this federal government and not even about the Finance Minister, because Finance Minister Löger – yes, we take care of them too, because they would have been sold by you anyway! – the budget is under control, the financial sector is under control, and every euro is guarded carefully, in the sense of taxpayers. [[Abg. Schellhorn: To the taxpayers!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, don't! To the taxpayers!]] You don't need to take care of him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Party promotion!]] By the way: The Minister of Finance also manages to answer 50 questions within a few hours – he got them at 10 a.m., he had to sit here at 3 p.m. – but it is not possible to do a four-page text, in which several laws represent the same, within 20 hours. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Ui! Ui!]] That's on the verge. [[Abg. Jarolim: But this is better than the birthday wish!]] – Jarolim, you’ve been yelling for 15 years, mostly a bunch of nonsense – keep it, we don’t need it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] We are concerned with the citizens, we are talking about the people in Austria, we are about taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, when colleague Strolz handed over the party and the club, he also made this quite well – by the way, that was also a show – but he apparently did not share the content with which NEOS itself voted, namely: Reduce the turnover tax in tourism from 13 to 10 percent: People's Party, Freeman, NEOS pro, Social Democrats and – at that time – List Pilz Kontra. March. Family bonus: Decision of the National Council on 4 October. July 2018, per: People's Party, Liberals and NEOS; counter – as always, the Social Democrats are: SPÖ and list fungus. Then you didn't even agree – why, you don't know, but apparently you don't care about low-earners, they're not the central electorate of NEOS – when we said that we want to relieve 400 000 workers who hack, work all day, tourism, hospitality, commerce. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak]] We want them to receive more than 300 euros a year, so we, the government parties, decided to reduce unemployment insurance contributions on 22 February. The three opposition parties were opposed. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scherak.]] One thing I don't understand now: Now you yourself agree twice on essential discharge packages with a volume of around 1.7 billion euros, and then you ask yourself here and ask: Where's the discharge? .I don't know myself, honestly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition: We are pleased that the child-bowl in many households is once again in a stronger position, even here in the house. We congratulate all those who are in the process of child seizing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have rising birth rates again, which shows that the family bonus has already developed the full effect. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Do you think this is a consequence of the family bonus?! That's an increase in your own role!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] It benefits 950 000 families, 1.6 million children, and 700,000 people have already taken advantage of the monthly payment of the family bonus. Ladies and gentlemen! Whether they have 125 euros net per child per month or not, people feel. That means it's speeding up in the wallet, and that's what we want people to be relieved at the end of the day. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] The reduction in additional labour costs has been addressed: It is, as it were, a package that comprises a total volume of 12 to 14 billion euros in this legislative period, and we will be able to represent this in total. We also start with the SV reform: The reduction in the accident insurance contribution by 0.1 percent is 1. In January of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and Today we have together – you were there, thank you for that! – prevent a threatening rise in additional labour costs by saying: No, we don't want that, we're preventing it and we're putting it out together! That is why we have chosen the theme of the current hour by the People's Party in January to inform once again on the tax relief we are planning, which will then be effective in the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. We're going to implement that earlier, that is, we're going to decide the package before. [[Abg. Scherak: Cold Progression?]] – For cold progression: I have already declared here 17 times that we are first carrying out tax relief, once again reducing tariffs – as economic economists also support us – and then talking about the topic of cold progression and their abolition. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scherak.]] Now we are going to reduce the tariffs for 4.5 million taxpayers. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] We'll start with the low earners again, and I'm excited to see if the NEOS are in there. This is a total of around three million people: 1.5 million workers, one million pensioners and around 350 000 self-employed and farmers, especially in the area where taxes are not paid at all; we go into the social security sector and decide to reduce health insurance contributions so that these people remain net more. This is what we want, and I expect the NEOS to go along with it, because if you make a critical issue on discharge in the National Council, it is not enough simply to choose the group, but then you really have to play it. [[Abg. Mile-Risinger: When?]] That is what we are going to look at very carefully, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scherak:... play along!]] Once you have not done it: in reducing unemployment insurance contributions. We will look at it carefully, as it then looks at the reduction in health insurance contributions for the low-earners, who also deserved to be relieved. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Then the rate relief at the lowest levels, and finally on site, economic and job security, will also be followed by a package for the companies – a total of about 4.5 billion euros, which are now added to the Family Bonus Plus. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Now?]] - Yes, now! So I don't know what you guys did last year, did you sleep there? [[Call the NEOS:When? When?]] Last year, this federal government has made so much progress: Packages – discharge packages, educational packages, German funding classes – as well as reforms, we think about the social security reform. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We have again introduced grades of one to five, so that the parents even know what the children are learning in school or not learning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] We have also implemented these things, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also take on the big points such as care. Today, there are three priorities: The tax relief – we have been preaching for weeks now – we are implementing it; Care - – – Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, you can hardly say that NEOS have no state politicians, they have almost no local politicians. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't come!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] We are still talking to our people out there, because the topic of care is a topic for countries and communities, also for the organizations that are working there on a daily basis, and also for the workers who work in the care sector. We want to talk to them, and we want to take them with us, including in the decision-making process. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Did you also talk to them when you abolished the care sentence?]] – Yes, exactly, now you are still coming with your wisdom! [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, through the Council of Ministers, the Red and White Red Card – yes, you have gone through more often – has gone through the wrong list and finally anti-gold placement. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, it has gone through the Council of Ministers more often!]] These are three issues on which I am also delighted to see whether the NEOS agree or not, because these are essential measures for the labour market, for the location, and at the end also in connection with the shortage of skilled workers. I'm excited about how the NEOS are going to behave. This federal government and also we from the government groups here in Parliament are working with great pressure on our projects, including the greatest tax relief for decades; Parts of this have already been implemented like the family - – Mrs. Klubobfrau, you always ask: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Why? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, but please! The biggest tax reform?! Sorry!]] – Look, the family bonus Plus, you need to know that is implemented! I don't understand, you've voted for yourself. So I don't really understand what the dramaturgy is in as part of this urgent matter. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Where is this the biggest tax reform ever?]] This Federal Minister and we as the People's Party and the Freedom Party jointly ensure that these points are implemented so that people in Austria are relieved, in particular taxpayers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In conclusion: Let's see if you're going to vote for it. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, I would also like to say: You say that resource consumption should be taxed very well, and you are always talking about a pension reform that you want; if you already say relief, but burden on the other side, then tell us where you want to tax! You never tell us that here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18258	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wöinger! You could have just started explaining where to distribute the loads. You always claim you save in the system. – You don't save anything in the system. In the system you only spend money on secretaries and on your bloated polishers, and you save and reduce social security, in the health field, in the benefits. - That's where you save. [[Deputies Wöginger and tiny: Where?]] – Don’t want others to do this! Come on. You yourself out and explain where you do it! [[Abg. Wöger: Where?]] That would be an honest policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: Where? Where?]] If we are talking about tax policy, tax reform, then it must be clear what the figures of taxes are at all. – This is something like a Community fund, in which all are included, and of course two issues are important for this. First: Who pays how much in this Community fund? The second question is of course: What do we spend the money on the Community funds for? Who pays? – We have a big problem, because those who go to work are paying much too much and those who are referring to capital and wealth incomes are far too low. This is what any statistics tell you, whether from the OECD, the IMF or the European Commission. There you can ask any scientist, everyone will say: In Austria, those who go to work pay too much, those who have wealth and capital incomes pay too little. This is the first problem we have. [[Abg. New builder: Why didn't you stop that?]] The second problem we have is: SMEs, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises also pay far too much. On the other hand, the large bulkes, the corporations, pay far too little. Now I am looking at what you have announced for the tax reform. Are you dealing with these problems? – They don’t deal with these problems at all, not at all. In fact, you're making the problems worse. That's what you're doing here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I brought you a very up-to-date graphic. [[The speaker presents a table on which, under the heading “Incomes 1980 – 2018”, a diagram with several different strongly rising curves, based on information from economist Thomas Piketty, is presented on the speaker’s desk.]] These are the results of an international investigation. The situation in Austria is comparable, not great different. That's basically what it's all about: How have different parts of society increased or not increased their income? – The curve, which rises very massively, represents the income of the 0.01 percent richest society; they have quadrupled their income since 1980. The top percent has still more than doubled it, and the other 99 percent have paid for it. This is the situation we have, internationally as in Austria. The shear is extremely apart, the top 0.01 percent gallops all of them, the top percent doubles at the expense of all others' income. And what does this federal government do? – She thinks that they may pay too much taxes up there because they have to pay 55 percent of taxes for everything over 1 million euros. That's what you think about them paying too much! You're worried that they're paying too much taxes! That's what this federal government is doing. These are the proposals that come from your ministry, and I tell you one thing: You have not understood where the problems lie in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The problems are somewhere else. We need to talk about how we are permanently reducing taxes and taxes for small incomes and for medium incomes, while at the same time ensuring that the top ten thousand, the highest percent, finally pay a fair contribution to this Community fund. [[Abg. Hanger: Lower level! Didn't you listen?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is about the fact that SMEs, the diligent entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises, do not have to pay so much taxes anymore because they pay too much today, and that companies and large businesses are finally making a contribution to this and do not pay taxes of 1 or 2 percent of the profits as they do today. These are the problems. Do I read any proposal from you? – No, nothing, on the contrary: They want to reduce corporate tax according to the principle of foundry, only: The casting can has very small holes for small and medium-sized enterprises and very large holes for large businesses. 80 percent of what you want to give the company only get the very large corporations. [[Abg. Vogl: As in agriculture!]] The small and medium-sized enterprises can share 20 percent. That's the way you prepare this tax reform, and there we are not a minute, you can't believe for a minute that we're voting. [[Abg. Hanger: You didn't look at the proposals!]] They increase the problems in this country and do not solve them. I'm sure we're not there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18435	Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18464	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! [[Call:-in]] You, Mr Krainer, have always been well aware of this, namely that you are having an envy debate on the redistribution and then you have a statistics from Mr Piketty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Margreiter.]] I may have to say that this is a left-left economist who has his own view of things. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can't take it for granted in such speeches: You do not need to talk about job security, because you are risking jobs, at least those in the socialist club, because they will not last long; in future they will be reduced accordingly if you continue to do so. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Tax simplification, tax relief, reduction in the tax rate: That is what this Federal Government wants, and the reduction in the tax rate is very high, above all. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl.]] I would also like to explain why this is so important: The reduction in the tax and tax rate ensures that people have more in the wallet at the end of the day. This ensures more ownership, property also ensures security, security in old age, gives people confidence and increases confidence in the future; therefore, the Federal Government has set itself the goal. High house! Trust and responsibility are also important factors in economic and financial matters. When I speak of responsibility, dear NEOS, also addressed to you: It calls on the government to take any action that may come anyway. To the urgency: Why this is so urgent, no one knows – we have already heard that – no one understands it, because in January it was, as has been said, not yet, now it is urgent; but we will implement these points. You are cordially invited to carry this! However, I would also like to point out one thing and, if I speak of responsibility, also call for NEOS to exercise responsibility. There is only the so-called government monitor – as an example of how Neos deal responsibly with politics in general. I think it was Mr Schellhorn who spoke of honesty. It operates the so-called government monitor, and there is, for example, a budget deficit in the sentence: “It is therefore expected that the debt will continue to grow for the coming generations.” – The fact is that we reduced the debt ratio below 75 percent in the previous year, in 2018, and that we will soon have a balanced budget. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Sorry! That's a pocket-player trick! That's a pocket-player trick!]] The key word for working time flexibility is inside: ‘NOT ENVIRONMENT’, ‘because the social partners still have time for negotiations up to 30.6.’ – So please don’t be angry with me, that’s over half a year, soon a year since we did it. So there would be a need for action. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Pocket player trick! Pocket trick!]] In Salzburg NEOS are in government responsibility, and now I ask you: The so-called transparency database is available throughout Austria – introduced in 2012. I come from the Federal State of Upper Austria, which fills this database of transparency – as well as Lower Austria – to the point and the point. There's nothing going on in Salzburg. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You stand here and spread untruths!]] That's where you're in government responsibility. Once again, how responsible They actually act in politics, because they could save millions of people – that is to say, too. That's what I'm asking you: Where is your responsibility here from the Federal Government? To speak in the words of NEOS: You might need to update once again, but since Matthias Strolz's departure, this has obviously not happened anymore. Our government, the parliamentary groups ÖVP and the liberals, stands for a tax-structural reform, in particular for the Income Tax Act 2020. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is the new ÖVP!]] The design and implementation are still in progress before the summer. To the content very briefly: Recodification of the Income Tax Act, promotion of private pension schemes, reduction of the tax burden on medium and small incomes – these are only the most important points that are implemented here. And because you, Mrs Klubobfrau, also addressed ecologisation: Of course, this tax-structural reform will also include appropriate environmental measures. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What? What?]] The government has really implemented quite a lot in a short time. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What?]] The following question must be answered: Where were you last year, if you claim that the family bonus of 1.2 billion euros net relief volume would not be a major project? If you claim that reducing unemployment contributions by EUR 700 million is not a major project, I ask you where you were last year. If the reduction of the VAT on accommodation companies is not a major project for you from 13 to 10 percent, I ask you where you were last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] If the conversion of the Öbib into the Öbag for It was not a major tax-financial project, I ask you where you were last year. What did you do? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What's the plan? Sorry! ... nationalization, or what?- Oh, my God!]] These questions must be addressed if you claim that this government does nothing if you claim that this government would not act quickly enough. We have negotiated a government programme that is set up for five years. This government has just been in office for a year, and in this one year very, very much happened. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger:... a big tax reform!]] The Austrians make a major contribution to this. They support us in this way. They carry along this path and take this responsible path of the government parties with us. In this sense: The urgency of your request does not open up to me, because this government is working perfectly.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18653	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please. No, first comes an actual correction. [[towards Abg. Rossmann, who is on his way to the speaker's desk]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18700	Mr Brückl has said that on our homepage, it is wrong to say that the debt for the next generations is rising. I'm actually correcting: Also in 2018, the debt that the next generations will have to pay has increased again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18740	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18762	Mr President. High house! Why are the debt ratios crucial and not the absolute amount of debt? – Because you always have to put the debt in relation to the performance of the economy. Economists are so self-evident that they do. This is also the meaningful size in relation to the debt of a country. When I read this urgent request this morning, I actually asked myself the question: What's urgent about that? It's a herb-and-roat request. [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of NEOS) Can it be that he does not like you?]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] This is what is going on, from the 2000 financial statements on pension reform, federalism reform and, and, In the heading reads: ‘Real-looking discharge offensive instead of show policy’. However, I have not read anything about the real discharge offensive, the noticeable discharge offensive. [[Abg. Scherak: In the request!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Only in your comments, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, have you addressed some of these aspects. But they have no more to offer than what the government has to offer, namely headline actionism. I hear headlines here, I hear headlines there. [[Abg. Rosary: So that hits NEOS now hard!]] In concrete terms, we have not heard from the government so far, although it is applying its tax reform in large-scale advertisements – financed by means of taxes, tax money – in newspapers and online media. In concrete terms, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, I have not heard of you either. Some of what you or Mr. Schellhorn have said is true: Release of the factor of work – yes, right! We need to do something in the field of ecology. But let us start the debate from the beginning: It is always the case that the tax rate is too high. The government says it wants to reduce the tax rate towards 40 percent of GDP. You say of NEOS, you even want to lower them to 40 percent. – Of course, the question is always what tax rate you mean. There are several: There are some people who have been involved with them, others do not. There you have to confess to color what you want; then you can calculate from the target value you sit down, how high the discharge is actually. However, the level of a tax quota is never decisive. It is always decisive for people in the country how the tax and tax rate is composed. Who pays how much in the tax pot, and what are the funds that are paid in the tax pot used for? What services are they used for? To whom do these benefits benefit? This is an extremely important issue for distribution. Let's stay with the revenue side: It is very central to keep in mind the comparison as to how high the tax burden on people with low incomes and on people with high incomes is. If you make this comparison beyond all taxes and taxes, you can see that the tax burden on people with low incomes in our country is pretty much the same as for people with high and highest incomes. That's where it's supposed to be. Mr Federal Minister, if you tell us again today that you have already done so much, and also for those who have low incomes, through the family bonus, by reducing unemployment insurance contributions, I must stop you: What you say time and again doesn't get any more correct just because you often say it. [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. Light peace.]] In the lower-income third, little to nothing has happened from the measures you have taken – family bonus, reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. At the last hour I brought the example of the single-parent Billa seller with a child: Through the measures you have set up so far, it benefits up to a maximum of 250 euros per year and no more – that is what it gets through the family bonus. However, these measures are redistributed towards the middle, to the upper middle and to the higher incomes. That's the truth. In fact, the lower incomes have received little so far. There is a need to think about a reduction in the factor of work, namely lower income, not only for workers, but also in the business sector. So far, I do not have any concrete measures. However, I am also missing in the package of NEOS concretes, because what you want to do, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, is: They want to promote wealth building, and these are certainly not measures that benefit the people involved in low incomes. [[Abg. Schellhorn: I believed you were...!]] Why do we have to relieve the people involved of low income? – We have to relieve them because their tax burden is so high; I have already done that, that is one reason. The second reason why we have to do this is that they have lost real in terms of their income in the last 15 years. Instead, Mr Minister, and your place of business are thinking about what is going to happen to the millions of incomes. Should you, as your State Secretary says, reduce the rate of progression from 55 per cent to 50 per cent, i.e. let go of it, or should you not? – Well, you are having debates that actually pass away from the concerns and needs of people in our country, who do not know how to deal with their incomes! A second point, which is important to me, is that we are not only taxing labour too much, but at the same time taxing assets too low. That's where the question arises: How do we finance this discharge of the people in the lower and medium-sized countries? – Not by a reduction in expenditure, as NEOS quite clearly want! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] The measures add up to 35 billion euros. Here you have to tell me exactly what you want to save, how you want to save it and who meets it! My concept is to say: If we relieve the stakeholders of lower and medium income, we finance this through higher taxes on assets – assets that are extremely uneven in our country. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] But you, Mr Finanzminister, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also of the FPÖ, do not want to know anything but nothing at all! But they don't want to know anything about ecologizing the tax system either. The NEOS have rightly addressed this: CO2 taxes, but neutral, please, do not cut in return! The result neutral means: We introduce CO2 taxes and return the money we obtain through the CO2 taxes, on the one hand to private households through a climate dividend, or as you would like to call it, and on the other hand to the entrepreneurship by reducing the additional wage costs. But now I'm asking you: Where do you find an ecologisation of the tax system? – You already think that is too boring for you, Mrs Colleague, but you are going to Brussels anyway – perhaps this is less noticeable there. [[towards Abg. Tiny]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What do you want to do? – You don’t want to know anything about ecologizing the tax system. They say of the ÖVP: No new taxes! – In reality, you want to protect companies that might be burdened by it. As the next one is, this urgent request must therefore obviously be very exciting. [[Abg. Little: Here you have to ask who this is!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The FPÖ is one of those who deny climate change. We were able to read it yesterday in all German daily newspapers and also in the standard: The right-wing populist parties in the European Parliament are among those parties that reject all measures relating to climate protection, and the AfD in Germany and the FPÖ in Austria are at the forefront. Even Strache says that climate change has nothing to do with people. Under these conditions, it cannot be that an ecologisation of the tax system is the subject of this tax reform. However, this would be necessary not only for climate protection reasons, but also for distribution policy reasons, because the issue of climate protection is an essential issue for distribution policy. One last point: There is already a financial gap in your concept, Mr Federal Minister, as regards financing. The 4.5 billion euros are not financed. The head of the Wifo Economic Research Institute confirmed this in an interview in the “High House”. You have to confess once and for all how you want to finance these 4.5 billion euros, because of course it can be easy for cuts in expenditure to become necessary, which will be borne by those who may be relieved by a package from you. I see it much worse with the NEOS: You want a discharge of 10 billion euros if I ask – the question, right! – have understood correctly. [[Abg. Scherak: Enquiry!]] But you do not say how and where you want to save. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: You can look at our tax reform concept!]] An example is really obscurity: 6 billion euros will be taken into account in the promotions. The Federal Government spends EUR 5.8 billion on direct support. So do you want to save all the funding? That's absurd! And if you are talking about the indirect – i.e. the tax – subsidies: They make up 15.8 billion euros. But if you cut it, then you have to consider very well that the reduction of tax subsidies leads to an increase and not a reduction in the tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18941	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament – this time as a speaker and not as an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e18978	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Rossmann, we can, of course, read this in our urgent question. At the end of the explanatory statement is where the potential is, and you don't have to use it to save a few billion euros. These are not figures that we have taken out of our hands, but the potential of 8 billion euros in the context of federalism has raised the industrial union, the potential of 3 billion euros in hospitals has been raised by the Court of Auditors, and thus we have drawn on external sources to which we refer. [[Abg. Rossmann: It's not inside!]] Today, the EU Commission's country report for the Republic of Austria has been presented, including: “The projections for pension, health, and long-term care expanditures point to a challenge for fiscal sustainability in the long-term.” – There are long-term challenges in pensions, health and care. The country report also shows where the money flows everywhere and where it does not work properly. Now I would like to remind you of what the Minister said in reply to our questions on pensions: “How much would the Federal Retirement Liability to Pension Insurance be reduced if the actual retirement age would be increased by one year?” – No answer; he can’t say that. “The disbursements in UG22 and UG23 account for almost 1/4 of the federal budget of 18.6 billion euros [...]. What is being done to reduce these payments?" – We are doing economic and labour market policy, he said. “The “Ageing Report 2018” implies, at a strongly rising pensioner rate and constant pension expenditure GDP ratio, strongly falling statutory average pensions. What is being done against this development?" – We are doing economic and labour market policy, he said. “Until when are the lifting rates [...] reassessed to relieve pension insurance [...]?” – That’s not in discussion, he said. “Do you know until the ‘Alderssicherungskommission’ is established...?” – This is what the chairman of the Pension Insurance Commission, which the member of the government has not yet appointed Hartinger-Klein. – The latter, I tell you, he didn't say that. [[Abg. Neubauer: Wrong!]] – That’s right! Mr Neubauer, you can make an actual correction, but as we last noted, you haven't read the reform of the pension scheme in the ASVG, but that doesn't matter. [[Abg. Neubauer: Yes, of course!]] On the question of the long-term assessment of the financial viability of pensions, the Minister also pointed out that this must be done by the Chairman of the Pensions Commission, who does not exist. [[Abg. New builder: Of course there is that! What are you talking about?]] If this Commission, which is working towards the government and counseling the government, does not exist and their appointment depends on a person appointed by the government, then who is it? Not to the government? - Well, yes. So you have to understand what's being presented to us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: That's a pretty nonsense!]] And then Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger and Mr. Minister are motivating themselves that it is not urgent. I should like to point out, with reference to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, that the urgency arises from the fact that this request is not to be answered within two months, but is urgent, namely that it should be answered on the same day; therefore, it is called a urgent request. Urgent then it is especially for you because you need to produce the answers within 3 hours. – I already see it: It's a stress. Now to the Minister's replies: Most of the sentences – and I hope someone who has followed this on the Internet – have started with: “We will”; we will be this and we will become that and we will be this and we will become that. – That’s nice, but I’d be interested once, we’d have and we’d do it. The sentences that take place in the presence and perfect are a little more exciting for the taxpayer than the beautiful flowers in the future that you paint there; none of them have anything. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The promises to abolish the cold progression have made you safe to do so in 2023, and only the fans know that this government is no longer in office in 2023. Of course, I would like you to have a long term office, but to promise things that lie beyond your term of office, I think very brave. Now again back to the pensions: At the moment, we stand at 24 percent of the federal budget for pensions – 24 percent. Already in 2020, it will be 27 percent. - It doesn't look good! Of course, you can also spend half of the budget on pensions, that's all; if it makes sense and what you don't have the money for then is the question. If you want to achieve volume in order to relieve citizens of burden, if you really want to raise a lot, you might want to address the big budget cuts, namely pensions that consume a quarter of the tax revenue immediately. If you manage to reach that the pension is taking place a little – one, two months later – then the millions really flow in. But you and your party colleagues are not going to break up with this. Even the young head of the ÖVP now allows the media to judge that there is no need for action in this legislative period concerning pensions. There is also enough potential for social security. If you are the most favourable institution – which you don't do – you could pick up 126 million euros for accident insurance, 52 million euros for pension insurance and 225 million euros for health insurance. But we don't. The Social Security Reform works in three blocks. The self-employed person is reformed loosely from each other, this advises Accenture. The official will be advised by another consultancy firm and the ÖGK will again be advised by another consulting firm. Everyone will build their own computer, their own procurement logic, their own salad. There is no overarching project that someone looks at professionally. That's what everyone does for themselves. But as the minister always says, That's self-management. – However, numbers may be allowed to do it again if it did not go out afterwards; you might have to look at that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19086	Mrs Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19108	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Federal Government has a clear objective of making Austria the country of opportunity for all citizens. The prerequisite for this is: Opportunities instead of debt and expenses, because that is true distribution justice. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to say one more thing: The left do not have the patent on the definition of justice, because that ultimately decides the voters. This shows the survey values of our Federal Government, namely that voters are very satisfied and that they feel that our work is fair. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We just need to take a look at our budget: Of almost 80 billion euros, half are for the social sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Yes, I understand that the opposition hurts that the Federal Government immediately reduced its income to EUR 1,948. Of course, the next step in reducing the turnover tax for the accommodation companies is also painful, as is the fact that the citizens are happy about the family bonus that you have been talking badly about in recent months. Whether it suits you or not, we will continue to pursue our success course and continue a comprehensive, step-by-step discharge, which we will now prepare acrybianally and bring into effect in 2020. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is not a Husch-Fusch action, but the right measures will be put in place at the right time, but we have now also taken the right path in the budget. Yes, it's true, we still have a deficit in 2018, but it's the lowest deficit for 44 years. For this year we are working on a budget surplus, because for us discharge and budget surplus are a must. We will now, on the one hand, reduce the burden of income for workers, we will do something for pensioners and for self-employed people, on the other hand, we will take important debureaucratisation steps that have always been called for by NEOS. The next step will be to reduce tariffs in 2021, increase competitiveness and simplify tax legislation. Apropos Competition, Minister of State: I can only thank you for your commitment to digital taxation for Internet companies, because this is very important for our businesses and, as a result, also for the localisation of the city, as well as for the fact that it has a bearing on migration trends towards cities. We know this from Vienna and the other cities with all the social problems. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I actually expected more creativity from NEOS today: Too little, too late, too slow – this is old school opposition policy of the last millennium, and one simply realizes that Matthias Strolz is missing as an entrepreneur. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is talking about entrepreneurship and the labour market, but if you look at her career you can see that she was only in the protected area.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19181	Mrs Margreiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19203	“Sure discharge offensive instead of show policy and broken election promises!” is today the title of the urgent request. Well, there is a tangible discharge offensive on the part of this federal government, namely for international corporations; and this is why there was lobbyism in the election campaign. They remember that only one of the Upper Austrian companies donated almost half a million euros. And that's not enough. ÖVP and FPÖ have still exceeded the cost limit for the electoral campaign – the ÖVP by almost double, by 6 million euros, and the FPÖ by almost 4 million euros. The sign that lobbyism is paying off in Austria is certainly not a good signal for Austrian politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This tax reform – it has already been mentioned – should not only be about remission – I miss that in the urgent request – but also much more about tax justice. We do not have tax justice in entrepreneurship, in the economy. Because, Mr Minister, you mentioned the reduction in VAT, the tax on turnover in the tourism sector: You remember that, together in the last legislative period, we have increased VAT not only in tourism, but also in other sectors, such as the beekeepers, the marketers, and I do not think it fair if VAT is reduced exclusively in tourism and not for other establishments. We have tabled a request that you have rejected – so much about your tax justice. By the way, this was not refinanced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to talk about tax relief, the actual refugees, the tax refugees, and I would also like to talk about the fact that you have carried the financial transaction tax to the grave and that you do not close the tax havens – on the contrary: They have even taken countries from the black list of tax havens. I do not think this is good and not positive, especially when it comes to fiscal justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The resulting declining tax performance of large companies and rich persons is, in turn, undermined the willingness of those who cannot escape the access of the financial office, and these are rightly becoming more and more dissatisfied. It is about international corporations that make a lot of money, but pay little tax, that a real competition has been created. These are mainly Internet companies – and my previous speaker has also mentioned it – which benefit from these benefits, because they are easy to shift from profits. As we have also heard, there is the digital tax – digital services tax, as it is called – an interim solution that covers exclusively a tax on advertising sales for Internet companies, actually an advertising charge that print media have long been paying. However, in order to recover the actual tax, namely profits that are shifting the companies, the introduction of a digital plant was a matter for discussion, and nothing has been heard of. That makes me really stupid, and I'm excited about what's coming. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is not only no justice, no tax justice in entrepreneurship when it comes to individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises, it is even worse: You have deleted a lot of AWS promotions especially for young companies that have great ideas for start-ups. A proposal, for example, would be to raise the micro-enterprise limit to 35 000 euros. We have brought this into the Austrian Economic Parliament. For example, this would be a discharge that would really be in the interests of companies. And when it comes to corporate taxation, please don't always talk about corporate tax, because what really strains businesses goes far beyond that. This concerns, for example, the sickness allowance for self-employed persons, which is also about wage dumping from abroad; we have long since ceased to have equal opportunities in entrepreneurship. We urgently needed a package – we heard it – for the shortage of skilled workers, for more skills, for more fresh money, even for an educational offensive. It is not the reduction of corporate tax that makes companies happy. Please solve the real problems of which 99.7 percent of the companies are affected, which cannot be referred to as an international group! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19275	Mr Linder has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19296	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! Mrs Margreiter: Yes, this coalition has made it a task to relieve a group, the most important group in Austria: the family group. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] NEOS is throwing us today with the question of show policy and broken election promises. – Dear colleagues from NEOS! This government is working with follow-up to the government program, it is structured to put point by point, and it is really important not to take over-skinned steps, but to do everything with plan and system, and therefore it irritates me that you are calling up to this urgent today and believe that everything needs to be broken over the knee from today on tomorrow. [[Abg. Vogl: Friday?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Lightness: What about the Car Friday?]] Very, very important is the good economy that has helped us. However, the good economy has been used by us to reduce the debt ratio – we now have a debt ratio of less than 75 percent of GDP – and we have made investments in the future. Unlike other countries – at this point I am left with nothing but referring to my home country – the SPÖ-led Carinthia has not managed to do anything in debt, but has brought it to a net debt of 110 million euros in this year and has done nothing but expand the administration. [[Abg. Bösch: Listen! Listen!]] I think we here in Vienna show that we are able to go other and better ways. [[Call the SPÖ:Hypo!]] Not only the debt has been reduced, we have also achieved tangible discharges for people. I am thinking here of the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions that have helped many people in the lower incomes, or of the greatest family relief with the family bonus plus for 1.6 million children. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, if that's not enough, then I don't understand the world anymore. However, we have also reduced VAT to keep tourism companies competitive. The next step is tax reform 2020 with a discharge volume of a total of EUR 6.5 billion, which is also being prepared in real terms and actually implemented by train. The main objective of this tax reform is not to make counter-financing over new taxes, but through savings in the system. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Light peace.]] In the past it was quite common that every tax reform - - dear colleague Lightenfried, you can laugh here quietly, it was the SPÖ, which has repeatedly made ideological tax reforms, simply to run ideological policies, and not to help people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Cake: For the people! For the people!]] I would remind you here of the increase in the unit values that farmers have brought into a situation that today we have to fight for farmers to continue and not to throw the flint into the grain. Saving in the system is well prepared. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I had the opportunity to talk to a high-level social security officer, and I asked him: Ladies and gentlemen, where are the savings possibilities, how much are we able to save? – It was a clear statement: We manage to save 40 percent of the staff, and we manage to save 10 percent of employees in the administrative sector – and there are many, many more synergies. I think, ladies and gentlemen, a reform that will bring savings to this extent should be a model for all. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] To the cold progression, dear colleague Loacker: Yes, that will come in 2023 and will be decided by this government in 2022, by this coalition. Finally, Mr Schellhorn, one word on the last meeting of the Committee on Tourism: They made fun of Carinthia at the last meeting of the Tourism Committee and said that we would not be able to fill the transparency database. It may be that the SPÖ government in Carinthia is not able, but your party is in Salzburg in the government and is also unable to fill the transparency database and provide the data. – So much for the honesty of your party!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19419	Mr Trauttmansdorff is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19440	Mr President. Minister! High house! Much has already been said, but very little has been done on the issue of gender equality. This is also a subject which, unfortunately, is too short in the government programme, despite the recent Chancellor of all time, it is only mentioned twice on just under 200 pages. I believe that this issue is too important as being so next door. Let us take a look at a few facts, for example, at the figures that we – Mr Loacker has already done – invest every year in the pension system: That's 51 billion euros. When we consider, for example, what we invest in education – education from kindergarten up to the university – so we see, that's 17.5 billion euros. When we look at what we generally invest in the area of children and families, it turns out that this is just under €8 billion. That is, we invest in pensions and in the pension system more than twice as much as in the next generation – and that stands for what Austria is currently working for, and also for what is wrong in the system. The government always lacks the courage to act accordingly in order to really leave something to the next generations. I think many are asking the question: What can we do to leave something behind to the children we once have or have? Will we have something built up? If we look at the middle class, then I think – yes, that's a feeling matter, but I'm going to support it with a few facts afterwards – that many answer this question with no. No, they no longer feel that they can build something. Let us look at the facts: For example, if we look at the household income of young families or young people, let us look at the median household income of a pensioner household, i.e. 65 plus, and that of two under 40-year-olds living together: The median income of the two pensioners is significantly higher than that of the two under 40-year-olds – and these are those who may want to have children and think about how they can afford it. That is not feasible in the system we have! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We NEOS always say it is important to us that you can create wealth. It is not just a question of redistributing wealth or securing and hearing great wealth. No, it's about creating wealth, and that's not possible for the young generation in this system in which we live. If I earn 10 euros today, then 5 euros will be lost. Sepp Schellhorn has already said it: from one bag to the other bag, and then it will perhaps be returned to me sometime with the abolition of the cold progression – and I believe it only when it really happens. It is precisely in this system that we have arrived, it is no longer possible to build up something. It is also very common in this subject that we talk about poverty in old age. Yes, poverty is a major problem, but currently the biggest risk of poverty in Austria is given to young people: in people under 40 years of age, having children and having no matura, there is the highest risk of poverty. We continue to burden this generation, and the government does nothing, does nothing to help it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For example, every fifth child in the kindergarten is at risk of poverty. Every fifth child visiting an Austrian kindergarten is at risk of poverty. This is not responsible by us politicians, but also without responsibility by those generations who now have the opportunity to shape, to do something because it will have a very massive impact on the future. At the end of the day, I think, this system, if we continue to do so, will cause the boys who have a good education to migrate, so to speak, to the next generation who can do something. You will say: Quite honestly, in this system with this debt I have no future, that is too difficult for me! And in the end, we leave those who do not have such good training with a much higher debt mountain. That is not responsible, and therefore it is now necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to do something of the government coalition, it is now necessary, Take steps instead of saying: Well, now we wait and take care of other topics, because they are populist and easier to implement. These are the real questions for the future. These are the questions that my generation will ask itself and that the coming generations will ask themselves. You have to act now!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19531	I very much welcome the great Carinthian group of Mr Obernosterer. Welcome to the High House! [[General condolences.]] Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19564	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Mr Linder claimed that we would not fill the transparency database in Salzburg. I am indeed correcting the fact that the transparency database will be filled with the partners, the Greens and the EIA by the end of the year under the Government Agreement. Unfortunately, you left the FPÖ-Prawda on glue. You could previously contact your government partner in the federal government to learn how much the transparency database is being filled in in Salzburg. [[Abg. Steinacker: This is no longer an actual correction!]] Unfortunately, it's not true.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19639	Mrs Baumgartner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19660	Mr President. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Continued calls at the FPÖ towards Abg. Schellhorn.]] – If the discussion might end again, I could start with my remarks. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Our Minister of Finance has explained in detail the various steps of the tax reform, but it is obvious that they cannot be explained often enough; I can also take a little note of it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has already taken significant steps towards tax relief, with the reduction of the unemployment insurance contribution and the turnover tax in tourism, with the family bonus plus amounting to 1.5 billion euros. The next step will be to reduce social security contributions to less-earned workers, pensioners, self-employed and farmers. This discharge will have a volume of about 700 million euros. The increase in the cost of advertising for workers saves 60,000 workers on the labour market. 300 000 tax returns will no longer be necessary by increasing the size of the small business and extending the scope of the package in the future. Ecologisation of the tax system is also implemented through tax advantages for less pollutant vehicles. In the field of renewable energy, the SPÖ may be at a disadvantage – I am thinking only of biomass. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have set ourselves the goal of bringing the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent. In three stages we create a comprehensive reduction in taxes and taxes of EUR 4.5 billion – without new debts. Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! We are doing this in a number of steps in order not to burden the budget even more and to be able to generate a slight surplus in 2020. You want more volume – immediately! You want a pension reform – along with that! At the same time, however, they are asking how economic downturn would actually affect the budget. Your arguments for me are not quite conclusive. I believe your wishes – but they are not serious. Our Federal Minister, Löger, has set out a logical plan of tax reform, which is targeted and will bring and bring about sustainable relief, without new debts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the years 2021 and 2022, there will be a significant reduction of payroll and income taxpayers, of which 4.5 million people in our country benefit, a real relief, and also small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria, which are to be strengthened. The attractiveness and competitiveness of our economic location should be maintained or increased. The course of this sustainable stability and growth-oriented budgetary policy has a clear objective, namely a balanced budget while at the same time reducing taxpayers. And obviously you, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, and I have a common passion to listen to the competent statements made by our Minister for Finance. That would be the only explanation for me as to how this urgent question has come to be.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19736	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19758	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the latest, since spring 2002 – at the time Austria ratified the Kyoto Protocol – the debate on climate change has also arrived in Austrian domestic policy. On the occasion of the ratification in this House, Environment Minister Molterer, at that time, said that the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and the reduction of greenhouse gases can only be achieved if all policies are involved. And he was right, the Willi Molterer. The only problem is that this is, of course, particularly true of financial and tax policy; only the one FPÖ and the many subsequent ÖVP finance ministers did not follow this appeal by Willi Molterers. Since 2002 there has been very little progress in the greening of the tax system. When you look at what happened, you notice that it has remained largely with keywords. There have been very few increases in mineral oil tax, but there would be a lot more inside. It must be said that ecologizing the tax system is by no means equal to simply raising taxes everywhere – not at all. This is about intelligent steering taxes and about making these intelligent steering charges so that they are socially fair and socially sound and do not burden the poorest – and that is what it is all about. In addition, there are very, very many ways to shape the tax system in accordance with ecology. Apart from the recently mentioned approximation of the mineral oil tax from diesel to petrol and – parallel to that – and then we have the poorer groups inside – a better expansion of public transport would be possible, for example, to introduce a truck toll on all roads, to carry out a really effective promotion of thermal renovation, especially in multi-storey residential construction – as there have finally been deletions, reductions in funding. It would be more than the time to adapt the absolutely anachronistic air pollution taxation that we have to now and today. And it would be time to express an excuse for the tax exemption of coal streaming and, in parallel, to take many distribution policies which can effectively combat energy poverty. The introduction of a fertiliser levy and, in parallel, the promotion of more organic farming, and much more, would be worth mentioning. All of this has to be done and achieved with an ecologised tax system, for the benefit of citizens. But Austria is there. This is clear, not later than since the 2018 climate review was published. The figures of greenhouse gas emissions contained therein are so grossly bad that, unlike the many years of tradition, the Minister of the Environment has refused to present this greenhouse gas balance at all. She then pushed this black Peter to the Umweltbundesamt and didn't even want to deal with it publicly. Looking at the greenhouse gas balance, one notes: It is really wrong, but since 2014, we have constantly increasing greenhouse gas emissions and are now above the 1990 reference level. I recall that the then Environment Minister Bartenstein, when he negotiated the Kyoto Protocol, has promised a minimum of 13 percent by 2012, and we are now above the 1990 value, and the time is already much more advanced. So there really, very little happened, and your climate policy is really, really bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is alarming if the 2018 climate change report in it states as a conclusion that the current planned measures do not achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. That's a pretty hi-fi message. You can say: Good night, Austrian climate policy! Austria does not comply with its international commitments, not only as regards climate policy as an international fight, but also as regards, for example, the commitment to implement the sustainable development goals. Sustainable Development Goal 12.c, for example, says that inefficient subsidies from fossil fuels, which lead to market distortions, are to be eliminated, and through a restructuring of taxation, the gradual abolition of these subsidies is aimed at taking account of the harmful environmental impacts and not at subsidising the environment and climate. And all this should happen without burdening poor people. Now I have heard that a working group has been set up. The Sustainable Development Goals have been valid since 2015, and for some time now – I do myself I ask once a year in the Financial Committee what has been done to achieve this SDG 12.c, and there is silence in the forest every time. So now we have at least one working group, but there is still silence – and no plan to do something at last to get rid of these incentives. The Wifo estimates that there are about EUR 5 billion a year in Austria, either open or hidden over support in fossil energy sources. This cannot be the solution of the climate puzzle. This non-environmental financial policy, which is being run there, threatens the quality of life of people, threatens a decent life and is dangerous in every respect and should be guided urgently on a right path, namely towards sustainability and ecologicalisation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19824	Next speaker: Mr Robert Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19845	Madam President. High house! It is a urgent question today which the NEOS have put to the Minister of Finance, that is to say, for those who do not know that, the Minister of Finance had to interrupt his work and come to Parliament to answer the question. Now, of course, this would be a good thing if it were urgent, so if it were important. But today many have already said that what is being discussed here may not be important at all. That's why I'm trying to figure this out. We have received a question on the basis of which the Minister of Finance had to explain, among other things, the annual accounts for 2018. Last Thursday, this annual accounts were discussed in the Committee on Budgets. There is a table on this, and this table contains the answers to exactly the questions that have been asked here. In the urgent request, for example, the question is: ‘Did the disbursements in the financial statement [...] decrease in law and security? “ This is always the case, so it is asked whether the payments have fallen. If you look at this table, you only need to see if the sign is positive or negative, and know if it has risen or fallen. [[The speaker shows]] That is, anyone who makes the effort to read it can understand it. But now I also understand the urgency: You were – I think you're going to talk to me – in this committee last Thursday and apparently didn't understand this table until today, and now the Minister of Finance had to come in extra to explain this table to you. [[towards Abg. Double builder]] That is the only logical explanation I have for it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And if it is not so, if you have understood this table on Thursday and still let the Minister of Finance explain the table here and explain whether the amounts have increased or fallen, then we are exactly with what we do not want, namely the show effect. What you have done here today is something – I trust to say that – that Matthias Strolz would never have done: stop a finance minister from working, quote him here in plenary and then bombard him with such ridiculous questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] This is not really worthy of this Parliament, and it is also not worthy of a government which has made something grandiose, namely, after 65 years no new debts. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] This government has managed to stop making new debts after 65 years. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I still remember exactly how Matthias Strolz, when he came to this House many years ago, which has repeatedly called for it – and now it has been implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Instead of voting applause here, you come up with some strange questions to bring the Minister of Finance into a shaky light, and do not acknowledge that in truth we have implemented a lot of what you have always demanded: [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: You didn't understand the table!]] Family bonus Plus, up to 333 euros per month for people who have three children, an incredible performance – Matthias Strolz wanted it again and again. Or: Anchoring the debt brake in the Constitution – he wanted it too. So please, dear NEOS, focus on the topics where you have single-setting features, e.g. abolition of the writing -, ah, the neutrality. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] Or: They also want a central state. [[Abg. Lightenness: That with the Constitution are...!]] You do not want what we want, namely that the states remain independent in the European Union, no, you want a central state, you want the state of Europe. - And we don't want to. We want a state union. Concentrate So you're looking at the things where you actually have unique features, and you're doing what Matthias Strolz did: Congratulations where it is to be congratulated. Matthias Strolz has always gone out and said something positive, you don't do that. They do things bad, which we all know are good things, and in which Matthias Strolz would have been very happy that this will finally be implemented. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's why: Congratulations If you are this federal government, save yourself urgent questions in the future and don't keep our successful finance minister from working!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19956	Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Karin Doppelbauer is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e19981	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear citizens! Just a short time to take a replica on it: We can look at this with the Plus and Minus, Mr. colleague, and discuss it again, and I am very happy to explain it to you, and I can also tell you whether we had a minus in 2018 or not. Look Just turn to the numbers and don't talk about things you weren't with; You're not in the Committee on Budgets. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To get to the subject: I was at a discussion last time, and then I was approached by an older gentleman, who, like you, Minister of Finance, was working in finance all his life, and said to me: They sound like the debt consultant of the Republic. He meant that as a compliment. I asked, and I'd like to accept the compliment, and I'd also like to take it as my job. What is this urgent question about us today? – It is a long overdue reform of the tax system: Simplification, transparency, legal certainty, but above all, the aim of such a tax reform is of course that people and businesses are much more in the pocket that there is a right discharge. And this, ladies and gentlemen, must not happen on pump and it must not happen at the expense of the next generations. That is to say, we are talking about the discharge; the key word discharge has often occurred today. 42.4 percent tax rate, this is a sad peak in the international environment and it is an average. We all know that there are many people who de facto spend more of their income. We hear constantly when we talk here in the environment or at home, that many young people, although they deserve well, no longer create property to acquire themselves without the parents helping without there being an inheritance or whatever. That means, even if they earn well, they can't afford it anymore. That can't be true, and that's why it needs a discharge. But this discharge must take place without making new debts. What does that mean? - That's not difficult. That means we have to look at our expenses. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There, Minister of State, we all know that the Federal Government is simply sparse. Many countries with which we would like to compare each other have already done so. So we're not the first ones here. One would just have to look at the neighbouring countries, and they would have to budget at the same time, that they would budget well, that they had good budget plans, and that they would even generate surpluses, and that did not happen to our federal government. Now, of course, you wonder why she didn't do it, we've had a high economy for some time now; we're all talking about it too. This has also led you, Minister of Finance, to increase revenue in all major tax classes last year, namely massive additional revenue. Secondly, we have an absolute favour in employment; this, of course, has helped. Thirdly, we experience – and this is also very, very important – a low interest rate phase, a historical low interest rate phase. So a great starting point, but the government doesn't do anything here. Again: We did not have a balanced budget in 2018, and we even have a reform minister in this government. He is not here today, but Mr Moser, as President of the Court of Auditors, has then developed a thousand areas of action for reforms. Thousands – and nothing has happened, none of it has been implemented. I wonder where these plans are. The promised discharge is not there, nor is the abolition of the cold progression available to speak to them again. It seems to me like if you keep a lolli in front of a child and say, Not yet, a little later!, Not yet, a little later! – and ups, then it fell into the next legislative period. So somehow, it's not conclusive for me. One must also say that the financial possibilities may not be the ones we have at the moment, because a high economy is simply not a permanent state. Mr Finanzminister, you know just as well as I do, all international companies are preparing for a downturn, and many are talking about a potential recession they are already preparing for. That is to say, the Federal Government is apparently doing a bird-strip here. Policy when it says: It won't be that bad. We'll put the head in the sand once, and then we'll see how it's going to be. So what do we do about it? – We NEOS have already put a lot on the table today. I would like to draw your attention to three points: first: Liberation of people and businesses, second: Save through a reform of state tasks and public expenditure, and thirdly: Let us lift the effective debt brake according to the Swiss model in constitutional rank – in the interest of our children! And please be so fair and finally remove the cold progression! That was promised in the election campaign, I can't say it often enough, and now you move it back. Cosmetics and message control do not help, because you really have to put the gang lever around and climb to the gas, which is most likely to rise to the gas. We NEOS will, of course, give you the hand for this as always. We do this out of conviction and would be pleased if there was cooperation. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20068	Next word reported: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20089	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A urgent one entitled “Real-mighty discharge offensive instead of show policy [...]” – yes, it is necessary, I believe, because what we are experiencing is a noticeable show policy. This is the only thing that this government offers us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This show policy feels the single parent, because it doesn't feel anything about the family bonus that you so much praise here. It feels this show policy you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This show policy also feels the employees with the 12-hour day. This show policy is also felt by the workers if they now have to take a holiday, ladies and gentlemen, for a holiday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sensitive show policy while saving in the system? - Yeah, probably. The only ones who feel this are the Secretary-General and the many employees that this government is doing. They feel this supposed discharge of this show policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's weird that you're talking about the urgency of a urgent, but because it's come over and over again: On the one hand, Mr Lugar's contribution – he is not here now – shows his attitude to this Parliament. [[Abg. Lighten up: We're not going to do that!]] It shows his attitude to this Parliament when he plays it that way. – Mr Löger must not interrupt his work, that is work to sit here for us in Parliament! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] The only burden I feel on this urgent one, which has been introduced today, is that for the time being we have to listen to the insults of the ÖVP on tax policy, which are repeated here and again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, it gives us the opportunity to look at this government's financial policy a little bit. What was announced? – A large package of 14 billion euros of discharges was announced. And what has it become? – A mini package; a mini package of 4.5 billion euros. If you look at it even more closely, you have to ask – and that is the question for each discharge package –: Who's the final use of it? Who benefits from it? And there is also the face of this government, because profits are being made again by those who are already making a small contribution to the tax burden, and not by those who would urgently need it. This is your policy, Minister of Finance, which you are doing! This is not a financial policy, this is client policy you are running here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it were financial policy, your balance sheet would look different. There is no progress in the taxation of global companies through a real digital tax. No, there's a mini-solution that's a little bit of an advertising charge. There is no progress towards fair taxation of financial capital. There is no progress in closing tax loopholes. And there is no progress in combating tax fraud, ladies and gentlemen. These would be the important and right steps to be taken in financial policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As for discharges, you only look at your short donors, who have already felt discharges. The Secretary of State goes further, he says: In fact, the peak tax rate is too high, which belongs to lowered. – This is a policy of the liberals that we are now getting to know: Those who have a lot of money should pay less taxes! - Congratulations, FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing is still important to me, because it is always about distribution policy and tax justice. I don't know exactly who said it, but someone said: This is an ideological policy, an ideological approach. – Yes, of course, this is an ideological approach, and I do not want it to be taken. We are the party here in this House, which stands for tax justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is probably also the big difference to the NEOS, which distinguishes us from them. The ÖVP has meant that we have no patent on the issues of justice. – What ÖVP now has is apparently a patent for injustice and social reduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two more sentences on the Neos emergency. Unfortunately, the danger with the NEOS is: Whenever they say it's about real savings and real reforms, then we always have health or pension issues. This is the problem we have: that you no longer want this system as it is. You want to cut it, too, because where else do you want to save if you don't cut it?- Oh, my God! That's what we're against! In the case of pensions, we are opposed to this being reduced, and also to benefits in the health system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is a tax policy that relieves the labour force in this country. What we don't need is a tax policy, as you do, that those who already have a lot more, and others who already have little, once again have to pay for it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20209	Mrs Dipl.-Ing.in Bissmann has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20232	Madam President. Appreciate High House! Federal Minister! I have followed this high-speed debate with great interest. . Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of NEOS, for giving this important topic of financial policy, tax policy with the urgent request a visibility! In fact, I wanted to express only my ambiguity at what Mr Lugar said, and Mr Einwallner mentioned it, but you were not present right now, Mr Lugar: Five times during your speech, you have accused NEOS of discouraging our Minister of Finance from work. Yeah, isn't parliamentarianism a job? – Parliament is the most important, the highest legislative body in our democratic Republic. There are 183 Members here who are conscientiously engaged in their work. [[Abg. Noll: Well, not everyone!]] I can't imagine our Minister of Finance being disturbed in his work or having to drag down here to deal with the questions, remarks, suggestions and criticisms of parliamentarians here in the house. [[Abg. Lugar: But don't read for tables!]] Estimate parliamentarianism! I have the impression that our Minister of Finance is taking Parliament more seriously than you are. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20293	Mr Löger, Minister of Finance, has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20315	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests at the gallery and also dear spectators at home! I am pleased that I have had the opportunity to do my work here today, to clarify this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to add a brief clarification to the debate and debate. We talked about this, and the NEOS also pointed out that there are too many prospects for the future. I'm just saying, Thank God this government gives the Austrians a perspective! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If there has already been some criticism of the current situation of budgetary, financial and discharge policy, then we want to go a little further and look back on the situation we have taken over. In 2017, we found ourselves in the situation that if more than twice as high growth of 2.6 percent was achieved by a SPÖ-led government, as estimated in the draft budget, 4 billion euros was achieved, but a deficit of 6.9 billion euros was achieved for Austria and the debt burden significantly increased. That was the starting point. And a tax reform, which was presented at EUR 5.3 billion in discharge and has actually not achieved even EUR 1 billion in net effect. That is the truth, the starting position, which the SPÖ may also take note of in this form! This was also the SPÖ-led government under German Chancellor Core. The current situation is based on this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Ten Years of ÖVP Finance Minister!]] Perhaps – also referring to the urgent request of NEOS – the formulations were not so clearly geared to the present time, but: What have we achieved so far? – This government has achieved a pre-emptive budget in 2018 in the area, which is significantly better than the estimate, which has shown a deficit of around 2 billion euros. We have been able to reduce the deficit through savings and better economies in Austria to 1.1 billion euros. This is the basis that last happened in 1974, and that is already the result of this government. In addition, we have 1.8 billion euros in discharge, which already have an impact. This is what pleases me, because this is not a show policy that is being blamed on us. The Austrians are fully involved in this discharge party, and I know that they are already enjoying it. In the future, we will achieve a further 4.5 billion euros in discharge, and indeed, we are committed to ensuring that we also ensure sound budgetary and surplus policies at the same time, so that we can create a good condition for the next generations in Austria as well. This has become clear today, and I thank all the discussionees for that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20369	Mr Jan Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20394	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Finance Minister Löger has just claimed that under Chancellor Kern, the debt of the Republic would have increased in 2017. I'm actually correcting: He has sunk in 2017 – down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Exploded!]] I am also saying that a certain middle leader as Vice Chancellor and a certain Finance Minister Schelling were at the time responsible for the fall in Austrian debt in 2017 – contrary to 2018, Mr. Finanzminister Löger, they have risen!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20437	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. [[17:34:37]] Short debate on the response to the question 2363/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20459	This brings us to the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media with the order number 2363/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that the reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate immediately. I would like to draw your attention to the speaking time: Reasoned by the first speaker for 10 minutes, each speaker for 5 minutes. Mr. Dr. Zinggl, Mr Klubobmann, you are already at the speaker's desk. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20495	Madam President. Minister Löger! I would also like to welcome the other Minister, but he is still in conversation. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel, who is still off the government bank with employees]] It is only a cultural matter, which a minister of culture must not necessarily be interested in! [[Federal Minister Blümel takes place at the government bank.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Once again it has become necessary to talk here about the high-rise project at the Heumarkt. Mr Minister, it will be time for us to take a closer look at your position in this context too! More than once, you have emphasized that you will do everything you can to protect and save the world's heritage, but you will not do anything. But you could have taken the necessary steps for a long time. For example, you could have gone to the Constitutional Court and filed a complaint. In this way, you would not only have created clarity in connection with this project, but you would also have had clarity for future similar projects – and there will be such future projects; there are also those in progress, for example in the city of Salzburg, whether a community can and may overcome the federal obligations of international law. You ignored this opportunity, you didn't use it. You have also done nothing about your obligation to impose on you Article 16 of the Federal Constitutional Act, namely that in the event that a federal state does not comply with the obligations of international agreements, you must give a direction – not can, but must. You haven't done this until now. You could do it, you could still do it, but you can't. That's what I'm really asking myself: Why not? If you want to protect the world heritage, this is the most effective measure. That could work right away, and it would be quiet. I don't think you want to protect Vienna or Salzburg or any community or world heritage anywhere, and that's the real problem. I am not concerned about this one high-rise house, I am not so necessarily about the Unesco World Heritage, but it is about opening a lock for other activities of real estate sharks, which then can no longer find and build what they want. No one can stop them, because with the reason that one could, of course, build the next one. I think less and less that you want to do something as long as you hesitate and do nothing except order any reports, any three-stage plans, exams and, what I know, dialogues and workshops and whatever – no. They would have the effective measures, but they do not use them, and that is not credible. I do not think that you want to do something because you also do not answer our requests accordingly, which aim and go exactly in this direction. I have repeatedly addressed very specific questions to you, both in the Committee on Culture and Parliament – either you have answered them incorrectly or you have not answered them, or you have hidden yourself behind any examinations you want to take in the near future and their results you will be waiting for. Our questions have been very precisely focused on these concrete measures. For example, there was the question: What about the assessment of the construction project on the part of the Constitutional Service? – You then said in the committee that you did not know anything about such an audit order. If I order an opinion, as I myself have done, then I will of course publish this opinion as soon as I have it, because I am interested in the fact that the public can see what it is all about and, accordingly, can make an opinion. On the other hand, if you order an examination, then keep that closed, do not give it to the public, although you have been asked by us and have been asked to do so. We therefore took place on 4 May. A written parliamentary request was sent to you on 28 December last year. November instead, you said you don't know anything about an order. In response to this parliamentary question, you have actually admitted that this examination procedure of the Constitutional Service has already been completed or would have been completed since mid-October, but you do not make it available to us and do not say in terms of content what is in it. This, Mr Minister, clearly violates Parliament's right to interact, which clearly disregards the government's obligation to provide information to Parliament. I'm just wondering: Why don't you tell us what's in there? Why are you putting this in front of us? You explain this by saying that you are still waiting for it, you need it as Ultima Ratio in case it becomes quite brilliance. When, Mr. Minister, do you think it is helpful? – There is again the possibility that the UNESCO World Heritage Status will be permanently lost at the end of June. Each year, such a meeting takes place once. Even this year, it could be too late. The Ultima Ratio is, in your opinion, when? If the world heritage status has already fallen? - Then it's too late. Then you have written that you want to examine all the opinions that might be of additional origin, including the one I have commissioned, which Professor Öhlinger has answered quite clearly. You asked that you get this opinion, I gave it to you, I shouldn't have done that, that was voluntary. You have also had the obligation and have not complied with your obligation. Now you have said you want to examine this, my opinion, and I ask you: How long do you need for this exam? . We remember that today Klubobmann Wöginger and you, Mr. Klubobmann Rosenkranz, have meant in connection with the applications for the Car Friday Scheme, a few hours of time must be enough for five pages so that the lawyers can look at it. Now there is this opinion by me but for six weeks now, I think; I think that is time enough for the lawyers. [[Abg. Rosary: That's great anyway!]] You've probably had enough time for the government to check that out. Or give You're going to order an opinion for this opinion to examine this again? And then what about the examination of the opinion? It must be enough at some point. I'd say it's enough and you need action now. You also know, Mr Minister – if you are interested in it at all, I do not know exactly, otherwise someone else might be interested in this room – that I want to protect the world heritage. [[Federal Minister Blümel looks at his smartphone]] You would have a powerful ally in me. I just think you don't need me because you have other allies, and allies who have financially supported you in the election campaign – allies I would say that they have no interest in protecting the world heritage at all. I ask you: How many percent of donations did ÖVP receive from the real estate industry in the last election campaign? Was that 30 percent or 40 percent? And how many percent will it be in the coming Vienna election campaign that will cause you not to work here? Otherwise, I can't imagine that. [[Abg. Rosary: As the badger thinks, so is he!]] I can't imagine that a wild speculant, past land dedication, passing international law, passing constitutional law, passing the interests of the population, passing ongoing investigations on this land purchase, can continue to trade and operate with his deals as he wants. The prosecutor's office is always after him, but all political groups support him wherever he goes. These are Scheingefechte in Vienna when NEOS make applications with the ÖVP and FPÖ. You could be here in the federal government, you could very well act as a government faction to change something here. You, Mr Rosenkranz, have said that you are greedy like a leaflet on my opinion, then you could finally do something. You've done this opinion, you haven't done anything. For me, the question really arises, how can it be that, although all the political groups, SPÖ, Greens, People's Party, FPÖ, want to preserve us the world heritage, which is nevertheless a sham. In reality, it is all about putting a real-estate shark and an industry under a ceiling that has no interest but to destroy this world heritage, in order to build what needs to be built so that these people earn money, regardless of how our world heritage is going on. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20568	For an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Blossom reported. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20589	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl! Now, after a year since I have been allowed to exercise this office, I have a little feeling that you just don't want to realize that we are on the same side of this matter, because I have been trying, from the beginning of my term of office, to get the World Heritage for Vienna – with all the measures and possibilities that can only be taken in some way. In your perseverance of ignoring this fact, I feel the suspicion that the reason for the possible exclusion of the World Heritage Site, this planned high-rise house on the Heumarkt, has become possible especially by the Greens in Vienna, by your former party obscene, and you seem to want to distract from this fact now. Only in this way can I explain to myself that you don't want to be true that I want to protect the world's cultural heritage. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I would like to explain once again, as has been so often done in the last committee meetings and also in the reply to the question, what measures we have taken and will be taking to exploit all the possibilities of legal nature that there is to preserve the World Heritage Site for Vienna. I can remind you that there is this so-called State of Conservation Report, which has always been easy with the statement from the city of Vienna to the Unesco It has been forwarded to the Commission. At the beginning of my term of office, about a year ago, I did this differently: We, the Federal Chancellor's Office, have written our own own opinion as a competent body, in which we have also started and announced a three-stage process – a process that has made it possible to bring back the very procedural situation between the Unesco, Icomos and the city of Vienna, because the two sides have hardly talked to each other. That's why it was important to stimulate this three-stage process from the federal side: on the one hand, an expert workshop, second, the Heritage Impact Assessment and third, the Advisory Mission. All three steps have been taken so far. The report of the Advisory Mission will be submitted shortly. I have actually expected this to happen at the end of January, but we have been told that it will take a while. We must wait for them, for who knows what is in them. If it says that the city of Vienna, the city government has taken all the measures that Vienna can continue to be a World Heritage Site, then everything is fine. If there is a risk that all the steps that have been taken to dissuade the world's cultural heritage are likely to be taken back, because the dialogue and the measures are going in the right direction, then we do not need to think about further measures. But if that is not the case – I have already said this in January and this is also in the answer to the question – if that is not the case, if this assessment, if this report of the Advisory Mission shows that there is still the risk that our home city of Vienna could be recognized as the World Heritage Site if nothing does, then I can promise you – once again – that we will make use of all legal possibilities up to the Constitutional Complaint so that the World Heritage Site will be preserved for Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20632	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20656	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Zinggl, until a year or more, a year ago, before this new federal government was formed, we fought together to ensure that the Heumarkt project was not realized because we wanted to receive the World Heritage Site for Vienna. It is about less than 1 per cent of the area here covered by the World Heritage Site, and we, together, have not understood this twice-landiness of the Vienna City Government, on the one hand, to say: We do not want to attack the World Heritage Site, and on the other hand to make commitments to the investor that clearly violates the World Heritage Site. That was the reason, Mr Zinggl, why you left the Green Party. Now there is a new federal government that does not do that anymore – or rather, there is a new Minister of Culture who does not do it anymore – what the last Minister of Culture has done, because he has merely replicated everything that the Vienna city government has said. On the contrary! This is a Minister of Culture who says: I want to protect the World Heritage Site. It's important to me. And not only the Minister of Culture, but also the Vice Chancellor holds a joint press conference with him, stands out as a sign of the responsibility of the entire Federal Government: We are concerned with preserving the World Heritage Site! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] You, Mr Zinggl, do not want to take note of this for the first time here in this House. You don't care. I don't understand. You could be so good work together with us here in the interest of the Viennan women and all citizens who are committed to the World Heritage Site. We must increase the pressure on this Vienna city government to finally apply for the World Heritage Site in relation to Steinhof. That's what I'm going to get to the next subject. The city government of Vienna has not made this request. What did the Minister of Culture do? – The Minister of Culture has made a request to the Unesco, asking for Steinhof to be checked whether it would not be necessary for the World Heritage to put it under protection – because it has not been the city of Vienna for years. So you can't wish for a better Minister of Culture than Minister Blümel! Give him a great applause, Mr Zinggl! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You really have to break this up on your tongue, ladies and gentlemen! We have 1 073 World Heritage Sites, 54 of which are on the Red List, which is about 5 percent. Of these 5 percent, however, over 90 percent are only on the Red List because in these countries there is either war, civil war, natural disasters or the like, and therefore these cultural sites are threatened. Only in Vienna, where there is no war, where there is no civil war, only there is a Vienna city government that really leaves the World Heritage Site in jeopardy and puts it in danger, so that one could lose this world heritage status – for Austrian tourism, for the Viennans and Viennas. That's really last-class! That is where you should address the attack, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So I can only say: Support with us this great Minister of Culture, the entire Federal Government and – here I call it very consciously – also the Vice-Cancellant, who is also so particularly committed to the preservation of the World Heritage Site! Thank you to this Federal Government! Thank you to the Federal Minister for his great work!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20722	Mrs Mag.a Andrea Kuntzlist next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20747	Ladies and gentlemen! Since Parliament's task is not to thank the Federal Government, but to control it in its work, of course, the right of interconnection, which the National Council has, is an important instrument in this regard. We now have a debate on a question put by Mr Zinggl, in which he has formulated very specific questions. In the answer we see a short, superficial text in which we avoid addressing the specific questions that convey the content of which we have already been a little attentive as a media consumer. Now, however, we are not talking about a school essay on which it is about meeting the issue or missing out on the subject, but rather about the control right, the control obligation that Parliament has towards the Federal Government. I should like to remind you, Mr Minister, that it is a matter of controlling the law, of interpolating law, that the National Council is empowered to ‘request all relevant information’. Now, “to demand all relevant information” does not mean that, for example, MP Zinggl has the right to write sentences on a paper and to issue and send you a question mark, but he has the right to get the relevant information and answers. This has been avoided in a breathtaking way. - That's it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zinggl.]] Now, however, we are speaking here – that is why I am addressing this – not about an individual case, but rather about the new style of the Federal Government. We have already addressed this in many ways with several avoided responses. That was the topic in the Presidential. We can also make some contribution here from the recent period of cultural policy. We had a meeting of the Committee on Culture, in which the subject was the Federal Museum Card, in which it was then said that it was still being worked on not being able to tell the Committee how it would look. The next day she was presented to the public. This has happened strangely to Parliament in relation to information from the government. We have asked a question, and this one too, Mr Minister, I am reluctant to bother you with text reading, has been answered very inadequately by you. [[Federal Minister Blümel looks at his smartphone]] - That's it. This is therefore a general style – a matter that needs to be addressed in principle, because it disregards an important instrument, an important task of Parliament towards the government. Mr President Sobotka has also recognised and addressed this as a problem after discussions in the Presidency. It obviously didn't suffice. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think we as parliamentarians should discuss whether this behaviour should not lead to other consequences. It can't be that one says: Oh, you don't give us information, we've had bad luck! We must consider that such behaviour must also lead to appropriate consequences, and whether in such cases, we may not bring it before an independent body and let it decide whether it is sufficient or not. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That's our job. We should see that we also get the appropriate opportunities and ask for them here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20795	Next: Mr Mag. Johann Gudenus. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20817	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of hay market is a very interesting topic. I can only thank Mr Zinggl for bringing it into this short debate today. I believe that Mr Blümel has said everything in his reply. There's a clear schedule, a three-stage plan. The answer to your question is quite clear, namely that a very fruitful dialogue with Icomos and Unesco was also made. Of course, as already mentioned, the Federal Government reserves the right to take all legal and constitutional steps to the constitutional action in order to use the opportunity to obtain the world heritage, to contribute to its preservation and to fight for it. Mr Drozda, the predecessor of our Minister Blümel, has always said in many committee meetings – and I have always said this to Jessi Lintl – that it is not possible for the Federal Government to protect the World Heritage Site. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is he at all?]] He has therefore made the robbers of the red-green city government here and has actually put everything on top of it to support this questionable behaviour of this red-green city government. It is a shame that up to the turquoise-blue federal government such a behavior was possible at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] He said it was not possible. He said that more often in committee. But you see, it's possible. We are also fighting for the preservation of the world's cultural heritage, and for this we have set ourselves in motion quite clearly in the political sense. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another point that seems to me to be worth mentioning, also in connection with the topic of hay market, is a series of scandals that in recent years, in red and green Vienna, are going through in the final effect like a red thread. The whole thing started with the green part of the government, when the Green Party – your spiritual forefathers, who are no longer sitting here in Parliament, Mr Zinggl – made an original vote and the members clearly said they rejected the hay market project, but then someone who seemed to have better arguments came. A dazzling figure named Tojner seemed to have better arguments than the basis of the green party – and suddenly, overnight, Ms. Vassilakou changed her opinion against the membership vote, and there was green light for the controversial hay market project. So the whole project already appears in a very, very questionable and obscene light. The Heumarkt area as a whole comes from the theme of Buntes Wohnen – a red housing cooperative – and if Mr. Wittmann is here, he knows what I am talking about, because he was chairman of the Supervisory Board of this red housing cooperative Buntes Wohnen, which was filleted, which was put profitably on the market, with the final effect of which the people who had invested in it remained on the track – and also housing funds from the city. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, if he was here!]] This is the behaviour of the SPÖ, as one sees it in many housing cooperatives, not least now in the Burgenland, where the prosecutor determines. Against whom? Guess! – Against the guys with the better arguments, Mr Tojner. This one has just been indicated by, I say, the better part of the SPÖ, Mr Doskozil, who thinks a little more realistic, thinks a little more reasonable – not always, but compared to the part sitting here and above all to the part that is sitting in the government of the city of Vienna, he has a reasonable access there and there. The prosecutor's office is now finding out against the dazzling figure of Mr Tojner, who has his fingers in the housing cooperatives Riedenhof and Gesfö, even though it is clearly stated as an accusation that assets have been deliberately too low and the country may have been damaged by 40 million euros. – The presumption of innocence, ladies and gentlemen, is true. But these are exactly those dazzling figures, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, especially of the SPÖ Vienna, with which you are all along, where the Greens made the robbers with a original vote, which was then implemented in the opposite sense, namely precisely against the opinion of the party, because there seemed to be better arguments from Mr Tojner – everyone can think of his part – Mr Tojner, who has his fingers in the housing industry in Burgenland, Mr Tojner, who wants to take over the housing cooperative GOD in the final effect, whereas the MA 50 has for a time put a stop to it. Mr Tojner appears everywhere, up to the B&C private foundation – very interesting! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You see, the SPÖ isn't about living in a quiet place, the SPÖ is just about profit. It is not about people experiencing social housing in the final effect, whether in cooperatives or in community buildings, it is about cutting people off or that some SPÖlers may find themselves there and there healthy. That is it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We reject that. This Federal Government is in favour of making possible sustainable housing!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20881	Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20905	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I would just like to point out once again something that I have already said to Mr Gerstl several times, because he always comes up with the argument of tourism. This means simply cleaning up a few facts. Mr Gerstl, do you know what is the UNESCO World Heritage Site in Paris? – The Seine, the Seine River, nothing else. And people are still going! – So it’s not about tourism, that’s one point. What really hurts me is what Mr Zinggl said earlier, among other things. – First of all, you have to say, because he mentioned Salzburg: There it was your former party colleague Padschuch, who opposed the World Heritage Site. Padschuch said at the time: We don't need that. – I know you don’t belong to it anymore, then it was defended; in Vienna it’s a little different. But what hurts me totally is that you simply call everyone who wants to invest as speculators real estate sharks. - It can't be. I know your thoughts are state-owned and record-building apartments, but it is not my liberal approach, even here, that those who want to invest simply adapt from the outset to the general situation, as Mr Rossmann did last week in the history of eco-electrics. [[Cheerfulness of the Gudenus and Rosary Members]] This makes your list: once each one adapts from the beginning. – That hurts, and that does not serve the discussion. If you are interested in going to the Vienna Landtagswahl and taking the theme of the Heumarkt with a short debate, I may also mention: Yes, there is a need for action here! Here there is enormous need for action also on the side of the Minister, because the central point is that: Since the countries have not taken the right to convert the World Heritage Convention into national law, you must act. This right has not even been used in Vienna, so to speak. So you have to act, you're on the train. And what we need here above all is transparency. This is once one of the important points. We need transparency here, and one can now also argue about the hay market project, as one wants, it has a few advantages: for example, the opening of the place, that all becomes more attractive. In principle, however, it is also different to see, That is to say: The NEOS were the first and the only ones who have always said that we must involve the citizens and we must bring the citizens into the boat. We cannot agree that we have always been here talking to the citizen, especially when it comes to the world heritage, when it comes to the city of Vienna – and we should continue to follow that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20956	Mr Alfred Noll has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e20978	Madam President. Minister! Mr Gudenus, I would almost have taken the lead in what you have done here. I've already thought that now I can somehow agree with the Gudenus. [[Abg. Gudenus: I have made every effort!]] Unfortunately, then you have slid off to a level from which I can no longer rise with my weak stature; but of course it is perfectly correct: The city of Vienna does something here, which is not supposed to be, no question at all. What surprises me with you, Minister, a little: As much as I often want to take the richness of your opinions as a model, the empty content, which then turns out to be retrospective, prevents me from doing so again. It's not the question of whether you want something. I think you do. Only: You could not only do something, you should have done something for a long time – and the whole thing fails. It is also true what Mr Schellhorn said: It's talking, talking, talking. In things that matter to you, it's kind of jerky, almost overnight, just you don't want to. Now it is perhaps not bad in this House to read the Constitution once, namely the way. 16 para. 4. – You will have studied this several times, I suppose. It's your business to take care of it. – In Art. 16 para. 4 is quite simple: ‘Member States shall be obliged to take measures necessary in their own sphere of activity to implement state agreements; where a country does not comply with this obligation in good time, such measures, in particular for the adoption of the necessary laws, shall be delegated to the Confederation.’ This topic has been discussed in almost all legal journals in Austria for 40 years, the comments on the B-VG say quite clearly, even for philosophy graduates, inside, and it is quite clear what follows from it: The city of Vienna has here decided on an area plan that contradicts the World Heritage Site. The Minister responsible would have the task of eliminating this abuse because – and this is a consistent view of the whole teaching on this subject – the non-absorbing of the site plan directed against the World Heritage is an inactivity, and that is why evolution occurs here. You've been in charge for a long time! You don't want to do that. This is the problem, and that is why Mr Zinggl is right to say again and again: We have no doubt that the EIA – as Mr Gerstl has said – wants to do something about it for years, but unfortunately it does not, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21039	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. [[18:09:31]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21061	We will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 6 to 8. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Ernst Gödl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21088	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners! It is now, of course, a Hercules task to resume the original debate in the full dimension; it has now been interrupted for 3 hours. You, Mrs Minister, have now returned to your place to continue the debate on the new regulation on the occasion of the ECJ judgment on Friday's issue with us. I think we all agree and, at least, we can dispute this in this House: No one has wished for such a judgment, no one has called for such a judgment, and until 22. This year's January was also not a political issue; not even the parties in their programmes have called for the Car Friday to be a holiday for all people in Austria. We have not, of course, written this into the government programme because it was not an issue, but we are here to find a practical solution when a problem, in this case a legal problem, arises. This is exactly the task we have here in the House. Yes, we have the task of amending, from a European point of view, a European law and making it non-discriminatory. We, of course, as legislators, also have the task of ensuring legal certainty. If we choose legal access now, we should of course also look back: What then, when the collective treaty of 1952, for example, regulates the Telos, the meaning of the regulation, what was meant by the evangelicals and three other religious communities having a special position? – Of course, this has some historical reasons; a “historical act of atonement” today called it a chief editor of an Austrian daily newspaper. With this arrangement, we have had an additional holiday, so far quite a good one, and no one has really bothered – except for the one and apparently also some ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber of Workers. But what is not in this judgment – which you, especially on the sides of the SPÖ, but constantly claim – is that a judgment will be made on whether there are enough holidays in Austria. There's nothing in the judgment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want here – and this is the claim made by the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister and also the Federal Minister – a clean solution which corresponds to a society of the present time with a secular touch. We also want to use them, as we have said, to make them religiously friendly. By the way, we have 16 recognized religious communities and churches in Austria, and we really want to create a regulation in which perhaps even everyone can find themselves, that is, a better regulation than has been given to most of the population. So that this is also clarified: For 96 percent of the population, this regulation does not change anything about the status quo that we have had so far. There's nothing going on. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] One could even say that the situation is improving because we are now introducing a one-sided holiday with this new law, a personal holiday by law. [[Call the SPÖ: This is such a nonsense!]] As has already been said, nowhere has the ECJ stated that this judgment is intended to give rise to an additional holiday. He also stated that it is very much the responsibility of the legislator to create non-discrimination-free rules. Because the SPÖ is spreading here, you don't need to do anything, I can quote from the ECJ judgment: “This is why, as long as the national legislator has not adopted measures to restore equality, it is up to employers to ensure that workers who do not belong to any of these churches receive the same treatment [...].” – The ECJ is thus expressly saying that the legislator is asked to create non-discriminatory laws – and we do so by becoming active here now. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As you said, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, in the context of the creation of this provision, which is, above all, not the question of holidays, but the religious exercise of the evangelical and other religious communities, I should like to point out to you: We have spoken with these religious communities. There was a consensus, there was a dialogue. You have also said, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, that it would be an increase in the number of employees that we now decide on this scheme. – I say to you: Rather, it is an increase in the intellectuality of society in itself if you claim that someone is taken something. You can't take someone that he didn't have before! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If 96 percent are not made worse now than they were before, nothing will be taken from them. Also for religious communities, even for the evangelicals, it is ensured that they can accomplish their religious practice on their holiday. Finally, I can quote from the editorial of today’s edition of the “Kurier”: "The solution is ultimately a decision for the economy and for jobs. In addition, the pro-entrepreneurship claim of Protestant working ethics is fulfilled. And we need power and ascent. For as the SPÖ recognized in 1969 in its economic programme, only performance and rise also create social security." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, in 1969 you seem to have been further and already failed. [[Abg. Wöginger: That was still in front of Kreisky!]] We will now make a regulation for all Austria, in the sense of all and in the sense of equal treatment for all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21165	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Loacker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21194	Mr Gödl has said that 96 per cent of the people do not change anything. I'm actually correcting: The personal holiday has so far been for no one, and it is now available to all concerned, so it changes for 100 percent. A further correction: You said no one would take anything. I'm actually correcting: Of course, all those who are Protestant or Old Catholic are taken something, they now have less.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21242	Mr Josef Muchichzzu has now been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21267	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker puts a red, black bordered panel on which the white inscription “Feiertag” is painted black on the speaker’s desk.]] I am already somewhat shocked by the arguments you have used here by FPÖ and ÖVP because you simply argue and comment on the judgment of the European Court of Justice, and that is actually bad. [[Abg. Höbart: We argue it wrong?! – The Chamber of Workers...!]] Yes, I am right, you have now presented a non-discrimination solution, but not for the benefit of workers – that is the big difference – and this would have been our proposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: But that does not stand in the knowledge!]] And do you know what was really bad today in the debate? – The Minister for Social Affairs said: “The economy is doing the job, please notice!” – Is that not bad that you as the Minister of Social Affairs are saying that? As a Social Minister you have the interests of the workers to represent, but not the interests of the economy! [[Complaints and bravails at SPÖ]] You're in the wrong place, you have to switch to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there you're right removed! You know what's really bad about the whole thing is the credibility, the credibility of your government members. [[Abg. Höbart: You were hanged in the fifties!]] The Minister of Social Affairs said on 3 March. Feber at the “Press hour” on the topic of additional holidays: “This will probably be, yes”, but an additional holiday is also possible. – An additional holiday! Where's your credibility? Or: ==References== January in the Austrian media: “No one should be taken away.” – Great is that, a great statement! Where's your credibility? Then, doctors around a law that again contains a lot of mistakes and legal uncertainties. ==References== January was the judgment. 36 days ago, with half a day, with an exchange, and today, 18 hours and 22 minutes ago, you've beaten a law on the table, which is once again a treat for all workers who are again discriminated against, because there are differences between national service law, municipal officials and other groups. [[Abg. Nehammer: Three pages! Three pages!]] It's actually bad that you're not even able to make a proper law – a law in the interests of employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then Mr. Strache goes here and says: Stay as good as possible with old regulations; the Chamber of Workers is guilty that a worker has filed his rights! – Yes, is the Chamber of Labour in Austria due to the fact that 500 million euros were spent in 2018, money that employers did not pay for workers? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Would you like to present the Chamber of Labour in such a way as to make it bad? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then Mr. Vice-Chancellor gave on 30. March 2018 a letter out – quote –: “Dear ladies and gentlemen!” On behalf of the Lord – Vice Chancellor – “On behalf of the Vice-Chancellor, I announce that the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport’s staff on Friday, 30. March 2018, all day long, are exempt from the service’. [[making a speech break]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ, NEOS and JETZT.]] – Why do you measure double-measured workers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That's not fair. The people who work hard in this country have not deserved it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Now go here and say – the next insult of all employees – that we are working too little. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] – Yes, are you still quite hot? We have the highest actual annual working time in all of Europe, and you say we are working too little?- Oh, my God! [[Keeping a table in height]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: According to what statistics?- Oh, my God!]] - Eurostat, full-time jobs. We work a week and a half longer than the Germans. We work two weeks longer than Sweden. We work two and a half weeks longer than the Danes. Then you pack up with the new working time law for another 96 hours, then you tell us to work on four Sundays. [[ongoing calls at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: But you don't believe that!]] – This is not fair to the workers in this country; they have earned a legal holiday on Friday! [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I think Mag. Gödl said: We have so many holidays. – We are in Europe in the lower third. This is a statistics of the WKO. [[Keeping a document in height]] [[Abg. Haubner: Well, please!]] This is your logo, Peter Haubner, that's your logo. [[pointing to an image mark on the document]] The Austrian Chamber of Commerce says in February 2019: We have 11 holidays. Why? – This is an honest statistics: because two days a year fall on Saturdays and Sundays. This is an honest statistics, but not what you say: We have 13 holidays, we have so many and, and, and. [[Abg. Haubner: Well, we did, we did!]] [[Call:This is where we even have 14]] There are countries such as Belgium and Spain in which holidays are credited accordingly. At the end [[ongoing calls at ÖVP and FPÖ]] You really have the opportunity to agree to our overall amendment request, which I have tabled and which has been distributed. It is the overall amendment tabled by Mrs Muchich, colleagues and others to Amendment No 606/A. In terms of content, the National Council wants to decide on a legal holiday on Friday for everyone at second reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As 112 representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP, you now have the opportunity to prove once in 14 months that all employees in this Republic are important to you. You have this possibility. [[Call:The most miserable AK election struggle, as sad as for decades no longer]] – That’s a good keyword, I still do, very good! When I look back: Regarding the birthday of about 2,000 years ago, the Gospel according to Luke 23 states: “Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing! ” [[Up-to-date calls at FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: You are most holy! Hindiful!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:Socialist Pharisees of Austria!]] [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now I'm telling you something: You know what you're doing. You're on a robbery march! – in which you take away a holiday for every person who has had a holiday and also delete a holiday day. That's not fair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point, all employees in this Republic of Austria: These government parties deserved the red card – the red card at the AK elections! [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] Let's show them we don't like this! It's enough! [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ.]] [[18:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21726	The overall amendment was explained in the broad guidelines, it was distributed to all Members and is under negotiation. [[Call:Holiness]] [[Abg. Rosary: Beppo Muchich, in which church do we meet on Friday?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] Mrs Schartel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e21780	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I always find it exciting and refreshing, for example, when someone like Beppo with commitment – I don't want to agree – is standing here at the speaker's desk and says: We're fighting! We're just fighting for the working population! Who agreed that the 8th? December now is a normal shopping day? – Then it’s not bad, then it’s not tragic, then we don’t force the workers to work. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Who agreed to the long opening hours? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who did that? Then it's not bad again, because then it's from the union. That's just something I think is annoyed: pretending to be the saints. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One must also say: Democracy is a balance of interests and, of course, many decisions will be made in such a way that they are better for a group and a little worse for another group. But now, honestly, my reigns: The fact that we are doing so well, we have to thank all the working people as well as all the entrepreneurs, all employers, because without both the system does not work. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to remind you that this regulation is very, very old. I can't remember a single employee who was on the street sometime, who was excited about it. We Catholics did not feel that this was unfair. We took it that way, that was all right. And when it comes to taking away: It was the GPA that left me in my collective agreement once again the work-free day without work. - Interessant! [[Ah-Rufe at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Yes Beppo, what about you?- Oh, my God!]] Interesting, that's not a problem. I could tell you a few things about collective agreements that you've been negotiating in the meantime, which are just bad points, but we're gonna do that another time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In her statement of entry from our wonderful and very important government programme for Austria, the SPÖ's wife, has quoted that we are acting for the benefit of all Austrian women. For us, however, the employers and entrepreneurs also belong to it; these are also Austrians and Austrians. And because you blame us for refusing to talk to experts about it: Well, who are the best experts? – Of course, the two bishops affected by this regime! And because we have talked to those experts who are really experts in this matter, of course the amendment of the request has been a little delayed. But if even the Catholic bishop and also the Protestant superintendent find the whole thing in order, then that will probably fit for you, will it? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In short, to the speech by Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, who was here at the speaker's desk and said that unless you're stupid, we don't need this law, because it's so and as possible, you can take a holiday at any time: I'm allowed to introduce the colleague a little into the holiday law. [[Call at the FPÖ: She's never worked anything!]] § 4 of the Holiday Act states that holiday consumption and arrival can be agreed with the employer in agreement with the employer, taking into account all economic interests. Agreeable means that there are two partners who agree on something and then say: Yes, that's the case! The change of us: This one additional personal holiday or holiday day can be consumed without agreement. [[Call at the SPÖ: There is no additional holiday!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] Then it is in § 4 para. 3 – and that is the essential –, vacation can be consumed in two parts, but according to law a part must include at least six working days. – That is why we have to make the law, because the government would otherwise act against the holiday law, because it does not provide for a daily holiday consumption; that is why it is so important. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now I am bringing in the overall amendment tabled by Mr Peter Haubner, Mr Andrea Michaela Schartel, colleagues on the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs concerning a federal law amending the Labour Peace Act, the Bakery Workers' Act 1996, the Holiday Peace Act 1957, the Land Labor Act 1984, and the Agricultural and Forestry Workers' Service Law. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[18:31]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22148	The overall amendment was explained, distributed and negotiated in the main guidelines. Mr Josef Schellhorn, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22176	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Yes, there is already a bit of a demolition inside; we started the debate a few hours ago. I would like to refer to Mr Haubner, who has, as it were, taken us into account in the economic responsibility. That is, I think, the core problem. Col. Haubner and the ÖVP, if you had only been allowed to watch “in the center” – but I believe that even the TV has been shut off, because no one from you has come – if you had only listened to Mrs. Körber-Risak, then you know that this was a story that was laid down. You weren't prepared. It was obviously a communication problem, you ignored the concerns of Bishop Bünker, you did not maintain any communication with those concerned. But the point is: You have now done something that is totally straining the economy; I would like to say that before. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] - No, no, no, no! Can I explain? Yeah? [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] These are four pages of bureaucracy, which are the employee data sheets that each entrepreneur needs to fill in. [[Keeping papers in height]] Now, if you have a farm like that, it's a gastronomy, and the chef says: You know what, I'll take it on 31.12. Holidays, this is my personal holiday!, then you can't refuse it. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: Yes, exactly...!]] -Yes, good, nice. Correctly regulated, properly regulated for entrepreneurs! This means red tape; if, for example, a colleague named Niss has 5,000 employees, he will probably receive 5,000 individual, different holiday applications. [[Abg. Tanja Graf: Holidays!]] – Holidays, holidays! Excuse me, holidays, so the personal holiday. This will then become a problem, and it will become a problem that entrepreneurs can also be put under pressure. [[==References====External links== Tanja Graf.]] – Believe me, that will be so! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Then they wouldn't do their job over there. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] This is being carried out on the back of the entrepreneurs, and that is the core problem. It is carried out on the back of the entrepreneurs. If someone says – and if it's the Federal Chancellor –: It concerns 96 percent of the population!, then I say: It affects 100 percent of entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's it, and you voted for it without thinking. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't understand you. You have made this law, with spelling errors still to do so. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] One thing you have to say: This has gone completely beyond that. [[Call the ÖVP: Make a suggestion!]] - You with your ski lifts: Get up, you're gonna fall off on Friday, you can lock up!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22304	Mr Alfred Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22325	Madam President. Mrs. Minister, you have already provoked your statement of simplicity, which is hardly to be exceeded: “The economy is creating work”. This reminds me very much of the 1970s when such reports of industrialists were common. The answer came at the time from Floh de Cologne, a German political rock group: The worker who does business; if at last the workers did something, business would also have to work. – That was just as stupid, but it was at a similar level. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] On the subject: I have to or I want to forward something personal. Which one of you knows Firmian? [[Abg. Rosary: The Bishop of Salzburg or what?]] – Col. Rosenkranz is the historically educated person. What has Mr. Archbishop Firmian with the Protestants in the middle of the 18th century? made in the 19th century? – He first rowed them and destroyed them and killed them, and then he sent out 20,000 of them. As Salzburger, I still feel that this is a disgrace for the country of Salzburg, the Bizarrerie, that Tyrol and Bavaria closed the borders for the Protestants at that time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] – Yes, in 1966 the archbishop of Salzburg apologized for this. [[Abg. Rosary:... good exhibition in Goldegg 1981...!]] I feel it as a Salzburgian who was baptized and was a miniature in Salzburg, until today as a gesture of reparation to Protestants in this country, that they had a holiday that others did not have. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I never had a problem with that. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] To this day and now, I still think it is a humiliating gesture towards the Protestants in this country that this holiday is taken in de facto for them, even though now as a personal holiday, it is still theoretically possible by law. According to my understanding – and this was also the consideration that led to the General Collective Treaty 1952/1953; since there is the side sheet that added it to Jom Kippur – it was also a lesson from the Second World War and that it was religious communities that in this country have been persecuted and humiliated by Catholics for centuries and who have also been persecuted in the Nazi regime. This holiday arrangement in the general collective agreement at the beginning of the fifties was due to the common awareness of ÖGB and the Chamber of Commerce that it is only fair if we make these glauben groups possible these holidays. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what you've done now, and I'm telling you, as an atheist linker: I think this is an expropriation of a whole religious group. The fact that this happens is only due to the fact that the ratio of five million Catholics to 300,000 Protestants is now the same as it looks. But it is a degradation of the highest religious holiday of the Protestants in this country. I don't think so. - That's the first one. The second is: The law is, of course, not, or not just for the reasons that Mr Schellhorn has already mentioned, partly quite a blow. It makes something possible, which I actually want to prevent as long as possible in this country: a Muslim holiday. That you now create the opportunity to celebrate a common day of sacrifice through collective action of Muslims conducted by the Islamic community in this country and we will have a Muslim holiday in the Republic of Austria is really absurd – and that is exactly what you are provoking with your arrangement. Third thing: It is clear, of course, why you intervene in the General Collective Treaty for political reasons, as is otherwise only possible in state-owned regimes, and why your authoritarianism is going through there in such a way; that, of course, you have not abolished the Jom-Kippur-Tag, is understandable, comprehensible, but will lead to a complaint such as that which has now become the occasion for the new regime, because with regard to discrimination Andersklauwer is now nothing but previous, and that is simply legal nonsense. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Now I come to the real topic.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22407	Mr President, I would ask you to be moderate. I can tell you specifically without giving you a call for order right now: The word “failness” has no room here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22423	Sorry! I take back “failness” and say: This is a bit suboptimal, legislative. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] The real point is: They sell it as if you had reinvented the Western Westphalian peace. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Loacker.]] In fact, this is a dispute between labour and capital in this country. For some 130 000 Protestant workers in the country, this is a direct financial injection for entrepreneurs of around 30 million euros a year. This is calculated once over the thumbs, that will be clarified over the years. But what you're doing here is class struggle from above, and you can't be surprised that there's an ever-increasing bit of bitterness that you're excited about, even if they come in the friendly-fair way of my colleague Muchich, who always asks for it, but to talk to him. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who?- Oh, my God!]] But you don't. They steal 30 million euros a year from some of the Austrian workers, and that is not only fair – that has already been done by Mr Muchitsch – I think it is wage robbery; that is really it. [[Abg. Belakovich: Are these the capitalists or are they not the capitalists?]] The latter, the last point, is not to take advantage of everything I have registered here: As you justify that you are in § 285 para. 76 Land labour law sets out a principle that is not a rule of principle, but is already the rule of implementation and therefore unconstitutional, that can understand who wants – I do not understand it. If I were a federal country in this country, I would immediately challenge that at the VfGH. This is not a rule of principle, which is already the implementing provision which makes it impossible for individual legislation to be applied by the countries. They will not rethink that, as the SPÖ is far too euphoric and far too optimistic. You're going to go through what it is. I say for the first reason: Enjoy that you downgrad a religious community in this way! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Gödl and Mr Deimek.]] You are also ashamed of the way in which you intervene authoritarianly and without need in the general collective agreement, in all industry collective agreements! This would not have been necessary, the provisions in the collective agreements are also obsolete if you fail this legislative intervention. And do not pretend to have changed something for the workers in this country! They've changed it to the worse. [[Abg. Deimek: That's right, we took a holiday! An evil, communist holiday!]] As footnote: What are the schoolchildren doing to those who have chosen a personal holiday? Do they have school-free on that day?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22526	Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22556	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! That was very interesting again, now we have even brought in a school holiday debate. We have now finally brought in this debate through the scientific expertise of Mr Noll also herb and beet. However, the reason why I have spoken is actually the Bible strength of my colleague Muchich in the face of the workers' chamber elections. I would like to know about you – since social democracy has now discovered such religiousity –: Where do we go together on Friday? Now I can only say one thing, dear Beppo Muchich, I quote from Isaiah, Chapter 41, verse 24 – it fits the Chamber of Labour –: "Look, you are nothing, and your doing is nothing, and you choose is an abomination."
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22587	That is how the Bible quotes are. Mr Wimmer, you are next to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e22611	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann of the Freedom Party of Austria, you have not now been openly brought forward, your quote that you have brought here. They will see that workers in the Austrian Chamber of Workers' Election, which is currently taking place, can decide exactly who they are voting for, because they know exactly who is in favour of the workers and who is voting against the workers. [[Abg. Deimek: Oh yes, especially in the Salzkammergut!]] This is a case in point today for workers to return to their wheels. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Far-real union!]] But one by one: I did not expect anything but to be done on Friday as it is being discussed today and as the government here today has taken Parliament, especially ÖVP and FPÖ, to vote on it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Rosary: Who else is part of the government?- Oh, my God!]] But the liberals have been a little quiet today, all day on this subject today, and I understand that, I understand, of course. A few have been in bred position back there. [[Abg. Deimek:... just look at the call protocol!]] – No, no, you too, too! I understand, of course, because there is also a huge excitement in your workforce, because they do not understand it at all, Mr Rosenkranz, at all. I have a colleague, a colleague of freedom, whom I very much appreciate, who is also a works councillor, from the salt chamber goods – there are many people concerned, because there are also many who are evangelical: Are you running? Are you running? What are you doing? That's what I'm saying: No, we're not running! We're not gonna run! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] And I have explained to him exactly who is doing this today, who is going to vote for the workers today and who will vote against the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion over the last few days was really crazy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It was really a game of mourning. There was, of course, a total uncertainty, and there is once again a kneefall – a kneefall in front of the economy. Of course, the constituencies have to be satisfied, they have paid a lot of money, and they naturally wait for something decent to come out for them. The trade association immediately sent out a press release shortly after the result was announced, in which he writes: “We are very pleased that the Federal Government has now taken up our solution proposal.” I wonder very slowly, Mrs. Federal Minister: What to work You're all day? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] [[Abg. Rosary: What does such a union work?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What do you and your cabinet work all day? You must not forget that the Social Insurance Act has prepared for you Mr Pinggera, the history of working time has written the IV, the Industrial Association, and now it is the Trade Association that makes the Car Friday for the workers saloon. What to do You all day, Mrs. Federal Minister? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear that the chancellor, before this result has become official, has had to make another half an hour's phone calls with the Rewe General Director in order to get green light, I must say that one sees – and that is really embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen – that direct influence of the economic operators concerned has taken place. [[Abg. Rosary: What is he talking about?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Deimek: I had to call the evangelical community for 10 minutes and had the consent, you don't have it to this day!]] This is really a shame, ladies and gentlemen. The government is squabbled in, I say this with full consciousness, the workers are betrayed. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Rosary.]] - You don't need to laugh. [[Abg. Rosary:... “with full consciousness”!]] Why, I ask you, are you with me? Why are you doing this as a liberal? Why are you being presented like this, dear friends of the Free Group? In reality, the whole thing is a shame, be honest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has already been disputed: How does that look now? What does that mean? – In reality, the evangelicals of this holiday have been stolen. [[Abg. Deimek: But they don't see that! That's just what the Chamber of Workers sees!]] And because Mr. Haubner said earlier that we would be so upset now and what this is supposed to mean: Well, it's about 8 hours of payment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tanja Graf.]] It is about 8 hours of leisure time, which has now been paid, which will no longer be paid in the future. Mr Haubner, you must say that quite openly and honestly. That is also the reason why we are so excited. [[Abg. Rosary: Maybe you're a little bit fucked up!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been mentioned that Catholic dignitaries and evangelical dignitaries are, of course, very agreeable. I also wondered – I say this quite openly – above all about the Protestant bishop. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] So if all dignitaries look to their little sheep in the future like the Lord Bishop, then in the future they will sit alone at the pulpit on Friday, ladies and gentlemen, because then nobody will go to the church at all, as it now looks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are always experiencing the same process, which is nothing new. In fact, it's always the same game, we've experienced it in the last few months. There a member of the government stands up, announces, and most often says the untruth, one screechs – it is usually quite different anyway – as Mr Blümel did on the day of his birthday, my very much appreciated ladies and gentlemen – it has been mentioned many times today, I say this time and again again –: We will find a solution where no one will be taken away! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, what about taking away? We know today that the evangelical workers will jump over the blade, because this holiday is gone for the evangelical fellow citizens. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is really deplorable for those concerned, which is disrespectful. It is disrespectful, deeply disrespectful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We have also noticed this on the other subjects; it was the same with the working time scheme. Mrs Bundesminister, you said: Finally, there is a fair solution! – Well, that’s totally fair, not if you can get bought 12 hours now, it’s totally fair if you can now be forced to work for four weekends a year – it didn’t exist before – and it’s totally fair when you have reduced rest periods in tourism. Oh, great! [[Abg. Little: Haven't visited a farm for a long time, huh?]] So I really like it. Accounting for Karenz time: I've always put colleagues Wöginger on my paper because he's doing so much wrong. Mr. Klubobmann of the ÖVP – he's not here right now – goes to Ö1-Journal, talks about Karen's accounting times and says: It is so important that we help women above all, there is an agreement on Karen's accounting between the Freedom Party and the ÖVP! [[Abg. Belakovich: On Friday, too?]] – After a quarter of an hour, the journalist comes up – and we who have listened, of course, because we thought: Well, that's a great story, finally, you've finally convinced it that we really need the Karenzan bill! – that you buy only the social partners. [[Abg. Belakovich: Enjoy yourself!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Happy, then you can work too!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we would not have needed Mr Wöginger to do this, so can we. That's scattering sand into people's eyes, ladies and gentlemen, scattering sand into people's eyes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another example of something that has really taken a great deal: the papal month, Mr. Rosary, the papal month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary]] Your Vice-Chancellor, of course, made the right use of the papal month, that's classic, he can easily choose it, he's in the official's schedule, that's where it goes, it's much easier, ladies and gentlemen, and he said: [[Abg. Rosary: What is he?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: And you're talking about labour law!]] It was so beautiful at home! The Minister then said: Well, here we look, we have to do something, that's done for everyone! – You were right anyway, but you didn’t get through! – No, you have not enforced yourself in this matter, because it would be urgently necessary for the papal month really to be defined as a legal claim. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: I've already been through, don't worry!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It simply raises the question: Why does the government constantly harm workers and why does it constantly turn to workers? The workers who have made Austria strong are those who hack day and night are those who actually keep Austria high. Workers and employees are the true performers, ladies and gentlemen, and they are constantly disadvantaged by you. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Rosary: And the farmers?- Oh, my God!]] I tell you, the thing about this holiday that you steal people today – yes, you steal people this holiday – has not yet stood out. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Neubauer.]] The workers can no longer be sold for stupid purposes, ladies and gentlemen, and you will get the bill presented at some point – probably already in the Chamber of Workers' Elections, Mr. Rosenkranz.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23007	Mrs Belakovich spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23032	Madam President. My previous speaker, Mr Wimmer, chairman of the PRO-GE trade union – one would like to think he knows about himself in labour law – has here claimed from the speaker's desk that Mr Vice-Chancellor was subject to civil servants' law. That is completely incorrect. I'm correcting: Mr Vice-Chancellor is Vice-Chancellor and is not subject to any working time right at all. You should know that as a trade unionist.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23066	I now give the floor to Mrs Sandler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23088	Madam President. High house! Mrs Minister, I would like to make a comment on the statement you made in the direction of our club woman: You can only change an elf meter when the foul has happened. But this is decided by the arbitrator when it came to the foul. There's no such thing as a preventive Elfer, as you asked from our club chairman. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Well spoken!]] “At present, all employees are allowed a holiday on Friday, because the ECJ is making a right.” – Let me talk out! [[Abg. Deimek: Shit!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] “The Federal Government suffocates and invents half a holiday. Now she corrects this pussy to an even bigger one, and from the day of the Car Friday now becomes a holiday day”. – That’s not what I’m saying, your Tyrolean workers’ chamber president, about the ÖAAB-FCG. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: He understood the judgment!]] - He seems to have understood, yes. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The EU Court of Justice – I quote, Mr Rosenkranz! – does not require that a group so-called privileged by you lose the right to a holiday or pay, but according to the right view of the judges, the Car Friday is for all Austrian employees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary]] [[Abg. Rosary: Who says that?]] [[Interlocutors Belakovich and Tanja Graf.]] Thousands of signatures were also collected for this purpose, but because of the way in which this law was whipped once again and without review, there was not even the possibility to issue these signatures. [[Abg. Deimek: You can't read it anyway! If you can't read it in half a day, you can't even read it in two days!]] What we didn't hear, because we were here at 9:00: Today at 9 a.m. all church bells have ringed around here to warn the delegates, to remember the traditional Christian values and to rethink them all. “Christian and social, that was once,” says workers’ chamber president Zangerl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is the greatest atheist!]] As a Protestant, as a confessing Protestant, I lose our highest holiday, and contrary to what is claimed, our superintendent Bünker said, “in contrast to all the promises of the Federal Government, the Evangelisian” was taken a “feierday.” – This sheds light on how the interests of religious minorities in Austria are currently being dealt with. What is for me an absolute super-GAU is the intervention not only in the general collective agreement, but in all collective agreements with this scheme. This is unique and, in my opinion, worrying, it is a massive breach of social partnership. How often do you intervene in the rights of workers? – Mrs Collaborative, the workers have no rights because you ask what? – Of my “imaginations”, that’s nice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What rights?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Which is involved?]] [[Abg. Rosary: You have to say...! Of your delusions we can't...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23271	Mr Klubobmann, I would like to give you the call: “From your delusions” a call for order. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Thank you for that, and I apologise too, but it is really difficult to stay there calm!]] I call Mrs Silvia Sandler. There is also the opportunity for all Members to speak, but now, Madam Members, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23314	Thank you, Madam President. Making equality seems to be taking away something from all of you. Do you know what people say outside? – You are afraid to complain, because then something is taken away. No, we don't want our employees to be afraid to enforce their right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Yes, we want legal certainty for employees and employers, and yes, we want a holiday for everyone. The Car Friday is a legal holiday, for example in Peru, in Singapore, even in East Timor and in the Hungary you so often praised since 2017, since we will probably also have the right to this holiday in Austria. [[Call the FPÖ:In Peru!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: How is it in North Korea?]] [[Abg. Singer: A holiday in East Timor!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23381	Mr Dietmar Keck has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23406	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's get together: The European Court of Justice has ordered Austria to eliminate the discord on Friday, since some have been free to do so, and it has not ordered the holiday to be cancelled, but only to eliminate inequality. [[Call the FPÖ:Don't be uneven!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Don't cry like that! Go, Mr Deimek! I know you're going through the nerves because you know you've built a pussy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just hold back, be quiet, listen, let us teach you, then you will come up! What happened when this judgment of the European Court of Justice came, ladies and gentlemen? – Minister Blümel immediately went to the media and said: We won't take anything away from the evangelical! That was his statement, he said, you can read it today. This is always the case with the government parties when workers are taken away: If they realize it becomes uncomfortable, they dispute the statements. Ladies and gentlemen! He said that nothing would be taken away from them and a solution would be found that is compatible with everyone. Then there has been a solution, ladies and gentlemen, and has come out half the day is free. That is, the evangelicals will be freed from 2 p.m. However, since he has never worked in a production plant, he has not known that most of the employees are already free from 14 o'clock and are no longer employed. There has been great criticism of the churches, including of the companies, of many in society. That's what they said: Uh, everything back, it looks really critical, we can't do anything, we have to find something new! – Then Lotto was played, namely holiday lotto. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] What happened then? – Now it looks like this: A day which I freed as a evangelist, they take it away from me, but the day I shall have, I shall take a vacation, i.e. a fee holiday that is due to me. For this I have to take a day, now a holiday is taken away from me, I lose two days as a evangelist if I want to live up to my religious confession. However, the second day I have to register three months before. How this can work then, for example, with construction workers – you know, the season may start in March and Easter is different every year – as the three months before can be registered, yes, nobody knows that at all; you didn't think about it all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you see, this is a husk and pussy you made on the second time. How does it look, then, how does this regulation actually work? – This arrangement affects 305,000 people in Austria, namely the Evangelic Augsburg Confession, the Evangelic Helvetic Confession, the Evangelic Methodist and the Old Catholics. It meets, you also declare that it is specified in your bill. But not all evangelicals are alike, as you have made a mistake, because the evangelical national and church officials are free on Friday. This draft law, which you have made, does not work at all. That is, what you have done is now discrimination in the religious community of the Evangelicals. You did not implement the ECJ judgment, but you created new discrimination, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I can only tell you one thing: Dr. Peter Krömer, that is the Synod President – the Synod, who does not know the Church in this way, is the counterpart to the Bishops' Conference at the Catholic – the chairman, said yesterday in the "ZIB 2" that a complaint is not excluded. That's not just what he says, that's what many say. You have not implemented the ECJ decision, you have created a new discrimination, you have made scrap!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23479	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23501	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! But above all, dear workers! What we have here today is to say and write a first-class husk. If you skinn and mix the government parties, namely Turquoise and Blue, into a color pot, you can imagine what comes out of it. [[Abg. Deimek: What is the name of the color?]] We are then just about to implement such laws, which are from the outset a hush-fush – like all the other laws that have happened in the last 15 months of this house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have enforced the 60-hour week without involving employees. [[Abg. Rosary: Even laws that the SPÖ has supported!]] – Mr Rosenkranz, what do you think, why have I taken this with you? [[Keeping a basket containing bath additives in height]] Your nerves are white. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Look Once upon a time: There is “Knisterbad Räuberbande”. [[Keeping a bath supplement in height]] I'll give it to you so you can rest and relax at home from your stupidity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Deimek, I have something for you, too, here you can read: “Creation change pool Hokuspokus”. [[Keeping a further bathing addition in height]] – You sell the employees in Austria, that is your clientele! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] If you're so excited, Mrs. Belakovich, even for you, I've had something to do with you – the rescue helicopter will come and hopefully save you. [[holding a yellow toy helicopter in height]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: This draft law, which you will decide here today, does not hold before the Constitutional Court. I'm telling you why: You just say half a holiday, that would be the solution! - Great, Mrs. Minister! Congratulations, great idea. Then the Rewe chief comes, you get one over the cap, the blacks lose their cross. Will we now also postpone the crucifixion of Jesus if there is no cross anymore? Is that your solution? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Call the ÖVP: But now it's enough!]] Half the holiday, it's actually a nonsense, the Rewe chief doesn't let that happen, we can't, it costs money! Then comes the next Wuzzi. By the way: In what seminar do you learn this hocus pocus? That's really funny. This sorcerer, which you drink, only makes Husch-Pfusch laws, without consideration, without opinions from experts, without involving the social partners. You try this game every time. Today the cover has gone up, ladies and gentlemen of the turquoise-blue factions. You are workers' traitors, you remain workers' traitors, and the voters will punish you, you can imagine that! [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You know what's happening now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] - I've never lost before. Friend, stand out for choice, and you'll see what's going on! Now I'm telling you something: They decide a law that is inconceivable. We have already heard that teachers will come on Friday and hold a conference, then we hear that the officials are not covered by this regulation anyway – yes, already funny. And then there's something else. Have you thought about this personal holiday at all? Everyone can choose this personal holiday now, regardless of religion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] So, now we have a large company with 4 800 employees; all 4 800 employees apply for the following: Dear boss, I'd like to have a break on Friday! What's the boss gonna do? – He will say: Can't do, 30 get vacation, the rest have to work! – The sheer is once again so big, one gets 200 percent holiday supplement – your idea – the other has to take a holiday day, which you steal from the holiday law. [[towards FPÖ:]] This is your client policy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein.]] – That is not true, Mrs Minister, you do not know your own legislative text! Excuse me, you are actually there for the workers and not for the government parties to represent their client policy. You're totally wrong in the square, step back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: What's going on?]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein.]] This is incredible what this Minister has already done: First you steal the working time, and now you take our employees a holiday day – you will still pay it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23679	Mrs Belakovich. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23716	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Knes, where is the Easter basket now? [[Abg. Lightenness goes with the basket to Abg. Rosary, which takes out the mentioned bath utensils.]] That was a big announcement now, great Trara, as this whole debate today was only great Trara. One has now seen it especially with the last speakers: One of this union after another has come to the speaker's desk, has wept, has complained how bad it is now. Austria is likely to fall now because the Federal Government is about to implement an ECJ judgment. – Okay, that’s the union’s opinion now, but that’s exactly what we have been able to pursue in recent weeks. These are the three tankscrackers Kopertz, Haberzettl, Meidlinger, these are the rulers who are likely to be in constant regret between golf course and Caribbean: We need a little more free time, we need a few more holidays! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the people who have never worked at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Yes, you will get nervous and loud, that’s unpleasant, I think, if your own union bonuses have to be in court because they have put something back in their pocket somewhere. I believe you are. These are exactly the people, exactly these rulers who have never worked all their lives, who were only officials, who are now crying out loud and who are still not enough for the holiday arrangement. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Nobody's been taken away. You talked about a fictitious holiday, this holiday didn't exist, you wanted it. – Well, the union demands more holidays, that is the good right of the union. The union can also demand more holidays. Sometimes the trade unionists remind me of my eight-year-old daughter, who said last week: Mom, why can't always be school when vacations are, and when school is, are vacations? – That’s exactly the thought you have, you produce this very thought. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't know where you're taking all these fantasies. Probably from your social-democratic self-invention groups in your virtual Karl Marx cities, which in truth are no longer there. The people outside, they're talking quite differently. There's so much work there, people are happy that they can work and that they have work. No one's going to cry there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] This whole regret, that's one that only plays at the functional level, and only there. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know, I sometimes don't understand it anymore, you could also pick up the subject differently. We could also be serious about speaking and demanding, which is quite legitimate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – Mei, Mr Schieder thinks he has to speak. Well, it's EU election, he's waken up again. What you're doing here is cheap polemics. There was talk of robbery, of robbery and of the removing of everything from the workers. Col. Sandler says: They are involved in workers' rights. – Which workers' rights are now being intervened in? There is no right at all, Mrs Sandler. Obviously have You don't understand it or you don't want to understand it or you believe your union officials too much. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You shouldn't do that, read it yourself! It would do some of you good if you don't want to work or work yourself because you've learned it because you never did it to go out into the businesses. Talk to the people who work there every day! For them this is a virtual debate, which does not understand your excitement at all. Ladies and gentlemen! You will no longer be able to take steps because the only thing you produce as SPÖ is laziness, cowardice and envy. This is, as it were, the focus you have placed here today. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I tell you one thing, I'm closing here today with a quote from Franz Josef Strauss – I don't know if you still know him or if you want to know him – he once said: “Irren is human, but always wrong” is socialist.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23829	Mr Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23854	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Belakovich said in her speech: “No one has been taken away.” – That is unfair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The right thing is: On 19 January 2019, the European Court of Justice found that the rules in the labour rest law and the holiday rest law were illegal and that everyone had a right to the holidays as a holiday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As of 20.1.2019, every employee shall be entitled to this holiday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have also removed the rules laid down in operating agreements. I would like to point out that you have taken away a holiday for every Austrian worker working in Austria, because this is exactly what leads to European law in front of Austrian law. [[Abg. Rosary: Is nevertheless wrong!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23912	Mr Nehammer, you are speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e23940	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was claimed again, and it's wrong. There was no holiday for 96 percent of Austrians, that is the truth. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The European Court of Justice has, following an action supported by the red-dominated Chamber of Workers, been brought by an atheist, finding that a small group in Austria, in this case the members of the Protestant churches and the Old Catholics, are preferred because it has a holiday more. That's the fact. So we had to find a solution that was the same for everyone. This is the same way the personal holiday has come about because all groups in Austria, whether they believe or not, have the opportunity to live and celebrate a personal holiday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] That is the essence of this judgment, which has now been implemented by the Federal Government, for which the Minister of Social Affairs has also committed himself – thank you – so that we can achieve this equality. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Allow me a word on hypocrisy that has already been addressed today – Peter Haubner has already mentioned it –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] The same red-dominated workers' chamber, which has supported this complaint, now suddenly stands on the side of the faithful, presses on the tear gland and says: That's not how it's done, it's all impossible! [[call to the FPÖ.]] That the SPÖ is not there at all – how am I supposed to say? – is too good to go even deeper, and Bishop Bünker is attacking in his role as representative of the Protestant churches, I tell you: Why did he agree to the government's plan? You know why? – Because it is important to him that people have time to go to the service – therefore, and not to put down Bible quotations suddenly, as did social democracy today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Exactly!]] The election of the workers' chamber is indeed an exciting topic; I see that as well. I'm glad you addressed her yourself today. We are currently documenting the violations of the right to vote, the scandals that took place in Salzburg, the false electoral lists – all this we will show when it comes to the Chamber of Workers' Rights, in red-dominated working chambers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] We will also show how the money of the workers' chamber members is handled by the Chamber of Labour. Not least, it was read in a large daily newspaper that the director of the Chamber of Workers Vienna earned 16 800 euros gross – well, this is job-friendly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Yes, it is actually an opportunity to go into the depths of this Chamber of Labour election campaign, to call the scandals in the Chamber of Workers Lower Austria, where consultation is offered only if one becomes a union member at the same time and joins the FSG. These are documented scandals, and there is a need to show people what happens to their money, which means red abuse of power in red areas of domination, and how important it is for this federal government that there is an independent employee representation in that country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to thank colleagues Knes very much. There is almost no more beautiful proof of why the old style of SPÖ has been chosen and why all of us in this government combine a desire to experience you live. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Mrs. Party Chairperson, take care of order in your own ranks, find a rethinking! It is not about employers against workers, but in today's reality there is a much more collective and collaborative relationship between employers and employees. If Mr. Knes comes to the speaker's desk, I only wish him one thing: that this old form of socialism disappears where it belongs, that is to say, into the house of history, but not into a liberal democracy and not into this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24041	Mr Lindner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24068	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Nehammer, I would be very quiet in your place. [[Abg. Haider: But he was right!]] The largest employee traitor in this Republic is in the ÖVP: ÖAAB-Obmann August Wöinger. – That’s what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take the name back. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24142	Ladies and gentlemen! The former president of the deacony Michael Chalupka recently weathered: “There is great distress and emotions of minority experience have been awakened, of which one has believed, they have already been forgotten. Many feel like second-class citizens.” [[Abg. Stefan: When did he write that?]] Michael Landau – I don't think anyone else – has weathered: “I do not want to judge the personal faith of other people. And I don't think that's the right thing to do. But here, as a minority, my evangelical Christians are taken away a little one-sided. And I don't think that's all right." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, one thing you definitely have to say is: It just doesn't go crazy anymore. [[Abg. Gudenus: Yes, self-knowledge!]] The unword of 2019 – and we could bet there now – will definitely be: personal holiday. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this scheme is a mockery for all workers. You're piling at the workers in this country and you're just looking at the big sponsors. This is a scandal that this republic has never seen before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Very objective!]] Such a crazy arrangement! Half a holiday, half a holiday was the first proposal, now we do not make a holiday at all – not a holiday at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Abg. Gudenus:... making rhetoric seminar!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't make a holiday at all, then maybe you'll go back into it again, because there's another possibility as well: 26 holiday days for all. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] Give all workers a holiday more, that is no problem at all! People in this country deserve more leisure time after 12 hours day and 60 hours working week. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my personal holiday will be the one in which a new government is praised in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24255	Mr Leichtfried has spoken on an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24280	In his speech, Mr Nehammer said and claims – and this is unheard of – that only if you are a trade union member can you be consulted at the Chamber of Labour Lower Austria. [[Abg. Nehammer: Not exclusively! That's a documented case!]] [[Call the FPÖ: In Styria too!]] This is completely unjust and a humbug. The Chamber of Workers throughout Austria advises everyone who is a member of the Chamber of Workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is justifiably happening, ladies and gentlemen, and we should not blame her for it – no more than one accuses the Chamber of Commerce of consulting Chamber members, and no more than one accuses the Chamber of Farmers' Chamber members. These are the duties of the chambers. If you can't live with that, you're here in the wrong country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24346	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Wöginger. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24367	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am still speaking now, because I have not experienced this in 16 years, that one is just being cried down, that one is being shouted down here by a group, namely by representatives of social democracy. [[Abg. Jarolim: As employee representative!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Neither do we!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: From Nehammer!]] If today is already quoted from the Bible, as Muchich did, then you have to say: It's good that there's no cross in here – but I'd plead for us to hang one – because that would have fallen down, because that's not to be surpassed in Pharisees. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Yes, exactly! Say...!]] This cannot be surpassed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wittmann: That would have been an order call!]] In fact, you can only say: From the depths I call to you, Lord, from the depths I call to you, O Lord, in view of the state in which social democracy is located! – The question is just: Who's gonna hear it? [[Call the FPÖ: Hopefully nobody!]] - Who will answer it? [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] What really goes on to the limit of how you appear and speak here is if only with a high red head is cried. It's class struggle pure! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Please go!]] At the end, the club members or the alternates are still going out, they put another one on it. - It's not a style in this house. I really want to keep this very clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then do not send requests in the middle of the night!]] You can argue what you want to exchange arguments is necessary. We are not of the opinion that this is also undisputed. [[Abg. Arbitrator:... exchange arguments!]] - Yes, arguments. I can give you enough arguments! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then send it a day before! Hold on to the rules!]] But if you keep going out of the speakers who interpret the judgment as if the ECJ had said that everyone got free on Friday, I say: This is simple and simply the untruth. The ECJ has not found that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The ECJ has found that it must not be discriminated against. You show Taferln here and claim that a holiday is being deleted, which nobody - which 96 percent did not have in Austria. [[OIA and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: “No one at all” you said!]] That's reality. [[Abg. Arbitrator: That’s prepotent, “no one at all,” you say?]] It is an increase in the House of Lords when the untruth is constantly claimed at this speaker's desk. We know this from the social security reform; now it is the same again. Ladies and gentlemen, I really appeal to you: There has to be emotions, and I believe that a Member of Parliament who shows emotions, but that we are being yelled that one wakes up the hair in the first row, that is not necessary. Live your class struggle from me in your own chambers, but not here in the House! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Secondly, Stop spreading these untruths! Thirdly, This government, we are implementing our programme – also for the benefit of workers. Where were you when the family bonus was decided? Where were you when the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions was decided? Who didn't vote? – Social democracy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen; this should also be said. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Go back to the subject matter! It is legitimate that we are not in agreement here – completely clear – but you are in line with your speeches of the dignity of the House so that we can discuss properly with each other, even if it is controversial! That is where I appeal to the Social Democracy, especially to you, Mrs. Party President Rendi-Wagner.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24615	This is what Mr Muchitsch has to say. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24637	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I believe that the arguments have really been exchanged, and I would therefore like to make a brief replication, just like Mr Wöginger. The fact is – and this has already been felt in the speeches and seen in the faces of the 112 representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP – that you are not well with your request. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Herbert: But there you have a more differentiated perception!]] If one of you says that this is the better solution for the workers, then he really has no idea how it is in reality and what the practice is. We take note of the fact that you have to go through what you get from here on your tables, not because you have not correctly interpreted certain legal texts here in the front. It would be miserable now if I continued. The fact is, we take note that once again you will pass over it – against the workers in this Republic. This is what we do for all those who work hard every day and who have finally earned something, alas. Unfortunately, unfortunately – it just hurts me.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24703	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 499 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law which amends the labour rest law, the bakery worker law, the holiday rest law and other laws, including title and entry into 500 of the supplements. There is a total amendment tabled by Mrs Muchich, colleagues. In addition, Mr Haubner, Mr Schartel, Mr President, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I am therefore going to vote first on the overall amendment, then on the supplementary or amendment tabled, and finally on the title and receipt of the draft law. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an overall amendment. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Haubner, Mr Schartel, Mr President, have tabled an additional amendment or amendment relating to Articles 1 to 5. I ask those Members of the House who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, so the draft law is adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker, fellow Members, on 'Equal rights for all on Friday'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 501 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:32:54]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on Amendment No 584/A by Mr Norbert Sieber, Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Family Allowances Act 1967, the Childcare Act and the Family-Time Bonus Act (494d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24834	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Sandler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e24862	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! “And they will also receive a child care allowance in the future, even if they do not have the children for three months.” This statement in September last year was very pleasing to the crisis caretakers and also to me, and I am deeply convinced that it was also meant to be honest. However, it was different, and as a reason, a decision of the Oberlandesgericht Vienna was mentioned that accommodation for crisis care parents is always temporary and therefore there is no child care allowance. In 2013, however, there were already judgments which basically claimed the right to child care. There was also a judgment by the Oberlandesgericht Graz. There is the following: According to Judicatur, crisis - care parents “are ready to have a common household from the first day the child is taken over. ” Further: ‘That accommodation for crisis care parents or a crisis care mother from the outset does not include: This situation, which results from a risk to the child, is of particular importance in terms of duration.’ This does not mean, however, that the right to child care benefits is deprived of the basis. ‘Poverty of child care allowance is in principle to enable a parent to devote himself to the first phase of life of a child’s education, to compensate for the costs of care and education and to reduce, where appropriate, financial disadvantages [...]. The primary requirement is therefore the provision of care", which is given in the case of crisis care parents from the first day. On the basis of this finding that the duration of the accommodation of a child is not foreseeable and is therefore also possible for months, “the criterion of the permanent housing and economic community required by the law has already been met by the specific nature of the situation per se”. The fact that in the case of a 91-day actual or anticipated absence of the parents or the child of the common household is deemed to be dissolved does not mean that a permanent housing community must last at least 90 days. Therefore, if one finds that a stay less than 91 days does not justify a household and that this is only possible in very few cases, then crisis care parents are virtually excluded from the child care allowance. But this is not only contrary to the Judicature, but also to the purpose and purpose of the Law. In most cases, they will only receive a crisis care allowance based on national laws, which will actually cover the expenses for the child and do not obtain a social claim. If you say that crisis caregivers a It is also necessary to say that these are very small amounts, with which not the particularly expensive care is paid, but the hours spent on continuing training and documentation. Many of the parents concerned feel that this proposal is an incredible underestimation of their activity. With the explicit mention of the 91-days-frist and the clearance of risks, there is an imbalance in the right to claim. I believe that you yourself are not sure whether the 91 days are really so well done, otherwise it would not be necessary to establish the Committee on Evaluation. If, after an evaluation, it is found that the reliability is not given and the period is changed, is there no more inequality treatment? But if that is the case, we can do it right now. We therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Together we support these highly committed, motivated parents who take care of these children in traumatic and dramatic stages of life. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25024	The amendment is properly submitted and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Sieber. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25048	Madam President. Minister! High house! The current debate is about the childcare allowance for crisis care parents, and I would like to suggest that we very much appreciate the valuable work of crisis caretakers who take children into their home in the most difficult emergency situations, and we would also like to thank them from this point on. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But now the Supreme Court of the Republic of Austria has found in its case law that crisis caregivers are not parents within the meaning of § 184 of the ABGB. This judgment had to be implemented by the Childcare Act. Since then, crisis-careers have generally ceased to have a right to childcare allowance. Thankfully, however, our Federal Minister Juliane Bogner-Strauß immediately responded and made it clear that the consequences of this decision cannot be taken by the affected crisis caretakers, and has announced a regulation. – This regulation is now available to us today. All crisis caretakers who have received the money before the judgment will continue to receive it in the future. So you could talk about a point landing and expect everyone in our minister to thank for their committed action – but far missing! With distortions, misinterpretations and immunizations, and with an uncertainty which is obviously to be explained as a system, the same procedure was chosen for the increased family support for people with disabilities: an insurance tactic which lacked any basis. In this area, after the correction, not a single case has become known in which the claims would not have been fulfilled. Also this time, in the Childcare Act, it is true that all crisis care parents who meet the requirements of entitlement will receive their money now, as before the judgment – ladies and gentlemen, retroactively with the date on which the payments were cancelled. There will be no gap or disadvantages here for the affected crisis care parents. Nevertheless, in the course of the discussions, we have insisted that there is some potential for improvement in terms of the conditions for the right to refer. I am referring, for example, to the 91-day-long housing and economic community that is necessary for a common budget within the meaning of the law. These 91 days are not a new regulation that was found in this law, but they were also long before the judgment of the OGH. These 91 days are prerequisites not only for crisis care parents, but also for nursing parents, adoptive parents and physical parents. This is therefore necessary in order to prevent discrimination. Nevertheless, in the Committee we have promised to carry out an evaluation of this issue, and in order not to overestimate the confidence of the opposition, we have also put this in the form of a committee statement. I would also like to inform you here, ladies and gentlemen, of this committee statement. ‘The Committee on Family and Youth assumes that the sustainability of the housing and economic community as defined in the Childcare Act will be subject to an assessment of the entitlement of all parents for at least 91 days, taking into account the child's well-being and with a view to ensuring that this requirement is met.’ I believe that we have indeed demonstrated our good will, and I also thank all the parties who have agreed to this committee. Ladies and gentlemen! As President of the Family Committee, it is a great personal concern for me to make it possible to work together in this committee, which is particularly good and based on some basic trust. Although it is clear that different positions need to be worked out in the political debate and sometimes the need for an increase in a subject, we should not leave a basic consensus of fairness, the sufferers of such conflicts are ultimately always the affected citizens. As Chairman of the Committee, I would like to hand over to all parties to cooperation and thank you, Mrs Minister, for the rapid and competent repair of this Childcare Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25115	Mr Zinggl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25136	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Committee Chairman Sieber, the matter is much easier. There are parents who voluntarily declare themselves willing to jump in where there is a need where children are left behind – the parents are no longer there, for whatever reason – and in the short term they decide that they are doing something and that they are taking care of these children temporarily until a general solution is found. These children are often taken over in a very bad condition - lost, sick, without a decent garment - and now it is sad and funny to remove the childcare allowance from these parents just because they care for these children for less than three months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber]] [[Abg. Schimanek: No, no, no!]] That's it. They save on these kind, helpful people, that's small. [[Abg. Sever: Saving?]] They save a little money at the expense of helpful people. And the second – that's also sad –: You, Mrs Minister, said in September in the Ö1 “Mitagsjournal” that you will continue to give these parents child care benefits in the future, even if they care for the children for less than three months, regardless of the duration of the care. - Half a year later, you forgot. This is similar to the Car Friday Act: First it is said that no one is taken away, then it is. – Well, I remember this promise and put in a motion for a resolution by my colleague Daniela Holzinger, who is now in short-term illness. [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what it would be like! I'm afraid you don't understand. Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[19:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25271	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly signed and properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mühlberghuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25295	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr Zinggl, it is not right that, as you have just done, crisis caregivers are taken away. This is a law that has been restored exactly as it did before the proverb. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf der Abg. Schimanek.]] It is quite right, however, that crisis care people are important reference persons who are available in emergency situations and take over this important, valuable task and work. They jump in if a place for children needs to be found immediately and the parents can't care for them for whatever reason. The children also stay there until it is clear whether they return to their parents or come to a care family permanently. In principle, careparents receive a service from the federal states for their important task, because crisis care is the responsibility of the countries. The background of this debate is that the repair of this law, which was necessary in accordance with a ruling of the Supreme Court, is thus ensured, in other words, that crisis caregivers have retroactively 1st. ==References====External links==* Official website The family resort has developed a solution to ensure that crisis caregivers also receive the federal family benefits when they meet all the conditions, i.e. they receive the childcare allowance again. It is established that a crisis care person is entitled to child care benefits if the child is cared for in a housing and economic community for at least 91 days. The corresponding adjustment to the family tax compensation law also ensures the right to family allowances. The third legal amendment concerns the family time bonus, which is to be granted only if, due to a necessary hospital stay, the child does not have a shared household with the parents. Thus the promised repair was carried out and the law was restored as it was before the OGH's saying, because we want the important task and the important work of crisis caretakers to be legally and financially secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25353	Next, Mr Kovacevic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25380	Madam President. Dear Seers! High house! We have been told by the previous speakers what it is about: We are dealing here with the draft law with the crisis care families, and it is about the right to childcare allowance. In my opinion, this debate has been very unfortunate in the whole context. With this proposal, there will be a right to child care allowance, Mrs. Minister and colleagues from FPÖ and ÖVP, and also the reference to family allowances will be ensured, but this claim will only exist after 91 days. Now it doesn't matter if it's a repair, as you always say, or not – that's not the jumping point! A repair of the law is okay, which would have needed the law anyway, that would have needed it anyway, but in a repair I would have expected us to do it faster, that we will do it already in autumn, that this will be dealt with in October or November. Mrs. Minister, you announced in September 2018 that you want to seek alternative solutions immediately because, as you have said, this OGH decision is neither human nor political. You said you wanted to implement the new regulation last year, i.e. 2018. If we're talking about a repair, that is, if it's really just a matter of formalities, so that the original state is restored, then I accept that, but if we've had so much time now that we've been waiting over half a year, and then this really is only presented mini-repair, then, I have to say, it's just too little from our side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have asked vehemently from the beginning, since the decision of the Court, that crisis care parents should receive a child care allowance, starting from the first day of care and not only after three months. That's the jumping point. Also, the argument that you, Mrs. Minister, treat crisis care parents the same as all other parents, is not satisfactory for us. Due to their special function, crisis care parents must not be treated equally, but we must find a solution in this regard that guarantees the relationship from the first day onwards. That is exactly what we called for from the beginning, and we have also made known this demand in the previous discussions in the Committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address one more point in this draft law. With regard to the family time bonus, it is also stated that future confirmations of hospitals must be made. For example, if an early incubator is in the incubator, the parents need to care for and care for the little one for eight hours. We simply ask ourselves how this should work in practice – so we do not think this draft is practical. Of course, parents will always be as good on the spot, but how should I imagine the care or in the sense of caring for a little early? – We believe that this cannot be implemented in practice. Again: We continue to demand the childcare allowance for crisis care parents from the first day and not only after three months. We'll just see you there as Government parties or your ministry, Mrs Minister, are responsible for presenting a reasonable arrangement. It is your responsibility to find a solution in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25447	Mr Bernhard has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25468	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the very beginning, of course, I would like to point out how valuable the work of crisis care families is. It must be imagined that these are people who voluntarily commit themselves to the youngest in our society, mostly under very bad financial conditions, with a great willingness to sacrifice and a great spontaneity: You get a call and a few hours later, the child to be cared for is also in the household. These people take on a lot, and there are not many in our society: There are a total of 200 families throughout Austria who actually take over this form of care. The crisis care family has one in itself and in itself relatively logical each other, namely: This is a situation that exists on time. If a child is in a very difficult situation because parents have a addiction disease because a parent is violent or similar, and this child comes into a crisis care family, then the state is very quick to decide how to proceed: If it comes to a care family permanently, can it be brought back? – That’s very difficult, but – that’s also an essential reason – the decision works very well in itself. This, in turn, leads to the fact that almost 140 of the 200 crisis care families have children less than 91 days, which is why they have not received this child care allowance in the past and, as it looks, should not be given in the future. For us NEOS, two points are clear. – The first point: Each crisis care family should, if there is a corresponding claim, also receive this childcare allowance, regardless of whether the child is a day or 100 days in the crisis care family. And: We put the children at the centre of our political decisions. That means that we want every child in our country to have the same chance, which means also the same financial equipment as regards the family benefits of the state. Yeah, the repair was necessary, but I don't think she was well thought out. Mrs Bogner-Strauss said in the autumn, which has been mentioned more often, that there will be a solution for all families. She has not kept her promise, and we Members have also been very briefed on what this decision should look like. So what was the basis for decision? – The basis for our decision was NEOS – we did not make it easy –: Do we now vote against these 60 families who are getting the childcare allowance again by this decision, or is it a help for the other 140, although these 60 do not continue to receive it? . We believe that the right decision is to take a decision for these 60 crisis care families and to use all our strength to make the other 140 of this childcare allowance available as soon as possible. That is why I would also like to inform you of an amendment. Since I believe that it is necessary to act quickly, we should have included it in today's decision-making process. [[Quoted print version removed]] This means that with this amendment we create the possibility of an exception for crisis care families. All lawyers we have questioned tell us that this decision is possible. – I ask for your support here. What we have achieved as NEOS is an evaluation. We have achieved that the Childcare Money Act will be evaluated in principle, namely whether a main residence is at all appropriate, whether the different forms of family that present and are also lived are sufficiently taken into account and whether the crisis care families are sufficiently taken into account. That was not a matter of course, we have achieved. I would also like to thank Mr Sieber for this. However, I would also like to make a second request, ladies and gentlemen, because the amendment would make the correction today, but it is a very concrete request. There is a second possibility for the government groups to express their support for our position, namely by means of a resolution to their own Minister. Resolution by Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on support for short-term care workers The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Women, Family and Youth, is invited to forward to the National Council a draft government that ensures sufficient financial support for crisis and short-term care parents, regardless of the duration of the care relationship.” This would give the Minister the opportunity to think again about what she is doing. Very concrete: The Federation has every possibility. Hiding behind repair or behind country competence is thinking in federalism, in the existing system. There would be the possibility of tapping your own pots, there would be the possibility of making derogations. What we are discussing today is not a question of party colour; it is also not a question of ideology, but it is a question of respect for crisis care families and the youngest in our society, and therefore I ask for appropriate support. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:00]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25689	The two applications submitted, the amendment and the motion for a resolution are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25713	Madam President. Dear Austrian, dear Austrian women! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! We have already heard: Crisis - care parents give our children hold, warmth and proximity, and most of it for a few weeks, precisely when their own family is not available. As a family minister, it is of course my concern that our little ones, and in this case also the weakest, are best cared for and accompanied that they are supported during that time, during which it is clarified whether they can return to their family or whether they have to permanently become a nursing family. Children from crisis-stricken families are traumatized in many cases, but they want to be cared for, loved, promoted and strengthened, as are all our children. In such situations, it is very important that we find stable caregivers, and these are crisis caregivers. Therefore, crisis care parents take responsibility for a child for a few weeks when it needs special support. As a result, the Supreme Court of Justice has also established that crisis caregivers – and we have already heard it – are not parents within the meaning of the General Civil Code, since no parent-child-like relationship is developing in these few weeks according to OGH. This case law has the effect that all crisis care parents will no longer receive child care allowance in the absence of the parent's term. Crisis caregivers – and I believe we agree – deserve our fullest recognition and appreciation because they do a very valuable job. We are now adapting the law to the fact that crisis care parents are equal to all other parents – both adoptive parents and physical parents as well as nursing parents – and thus have the right to child care as soon as they take care of the child for longer than 91 days. Family aid is also granted to crisis care parents from the first day. The adaptation of the Childcare Money Act takes place retroactively, saying that we have needed several months to repair this law, but all parents receive, if they care for the child for longer than 91 days, the child care allowance without gap retroactively from 1. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] To say it again: Even before the repair of this law and before the implementation of the OGH judgment, crisis care parents who had the child for less than 91 days did not receive childcare allowance. As I said, crisis - care parents are now treated the same as all other parents. We have a constitutional equal treatment obligation. Would we prefer crisis parents, If we prefer a special group of individuals, this would definitely be a disparity between crisis caretakers and all other parents. However, crisis care parents are treated differently from parents or adoptive parents because they receive additional benefits paid by the countries. The specific design and the financial compensation are regulated differently in each federal state. However, as we have already heard, crisis care is the task of the federal states. Nevertheless, the federal government also supports crisis care parents and pays corresponding family benefits. Crisis care parents are active and committed, sometimes they have to gnaw at it when traumatized children come to them; it is certainly not easy to give a child back after a few weeks, and therefore they are very much appreciated and recognized by our society for this performance. Of course, they should also receive child care and family allowance, but under the same conditions as other parents are granted. I would like to address the legislative repair on family time bonus – also called papal month – with regard to the birth of early children. So far, the family time bonus can only be used if there is a common household of father, mother and child. A common household makes sense, of course, the family season bonus is meant for the fathers to support the mothers and the babies shortly after birth – and I am very happy if we can increase father participation – and above all build a close bond with the baby. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, it has happened in some cases that the possibility of using the family time bonus was not given if the baby was born as an early child and was not at home within three months, because the family time bonus can only be obtained within the first three months of birth. Now we have said that if there is a medical indication at an early age, that it still has to remain in the hospital, the father can still use the family time bonus. I am very pleased because I believe that this is very important. It is not relevant whether the baby is at home or whether it is in the hospital and still has to be in the incubator; I think the earlier you can build a bond to a baby, the better it is. As I said, I am particularly pleased if we can increase the father's share when fathers take more care of the newborn babies and support the mothers there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing: We're in the middle of the babysitting account, as we now have it, and the family time bonus – both have been available since 1. March 2017 – to evaluate. Since the reference of child care allowance is possible in its longest format 35 months, please admit that I am taking at least three years for this evaluation, because then we can really draw conclusions, find solutions and take measures to make the child care allowance even better for the parents in Austria and also better implement the family time bonus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25792	The next item is the speech by Mrs Erasim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25819	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Love Seers and Watch out for the screens! [[The speaker put a table on the speaker’s desk, on which above the text: “Minister promises: money for crisis workers is not shortened” Federal Minister Bogner-Strauß is pictured.]] I would like to briefly discuss why it is so important to us that crisis care parents receive the childcare allowance from the first day, and why I feel that what has been presented here is an increase of all these crisis care parents. We do not think this has been repaired, because crisis care parents have on average four to six weeks in their homes, that is, far less than 91 days; from this time on, the child care allowance may be paid under this scheme. Mrs. Minister! The last time I went to this place on the subject of child care for crisis care parents on 24 October. October 2018 spoken, i.e. exactly four months ago. At that time, I asked you to act urgently here, very fluently, as an impatience of my person, and you have been assured - several times, at different levels - to submit here before the 31st of December a bill that repairs the legal situation. I quote you: “And they will continue to receive a child care allowance in the future, even if they do not have the children for three months.” – Ms Bogner-Strauss, Mrs. Bogner-Strauss You said yourself and I remind you of that vehemently here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the Family Committee, in the plenary session, via OTS issues I just quoted, you have made all the promises in the world in this sensitive matter. All those who doubted these promises – we as SPÖ were always with the twins – have met with great misunderstanding. The Committee you have initiated confirms that you yourself are doubting the moral correctness of this legislative text, and you are right to doubt it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are a minister, who in beautiful speech bubbles assures every concern; but if you see behind these beautiful words, you have to realize that what you are implementing provides anything other than for more justice in this country. I promise you that I will not get tired of reminding you of the measures so urgently needed in the sense of the families in that country. When do you repair the existing cuts at the family counseling offices? When is the adequate accounting of periods of leave laid down in the law? When do you put in place measures relating to maintenance guarantee for single-parents? What to do You're against child poverty? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – And please don’t come to me with the Family Bonus Plus, because in many ways it may be a positive thing, but certainly not in the fight against child poverty and for bad earners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can tell you quite clearly: You don't do much for all these important topics for families in this country. If you do something, a Husch-Fuch-Law does not improve anything in real life – in real life, Mrs. Minister, and not in the government's glass palaces – for the most people concerned. I ask you to: Finally, submit a legislative text that honours the most valuable work of crisis care parents and provides child care money from the first day! If you don't get the law text yourself: We, the Social democratic parliamentary group, have put forward a text, you only need to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25897	Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e25918	Madam President. Minister! Dear High House! [[Previously on Abg. Keeping Erasim in height on the speaker's desk:]] I keep this sign, because what's on it is true: ‘Money for crisis care parents is not reduced’. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] The money for crisis care parents has not been reduced, so I like to keep this sign here. I need to make a correction here: The family bonus Plus brings many children out of poverty. Parents who have paid taxes and yet have lived below the poverty line are now no longer living below the poverty line – and I would like to thank our Minister very much for that. [[Abg. Erasim: Do you have an idea... the poverty limit lies?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is not the money for crisis care parents who have been shortened. It has been shortened, ladies and gentlemen, my hope that it is possible to work properly in this Parliament across party borders, because what has happened here is significant. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's what you're saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Perhaps you should also make this clear to the audience: The OGH has tipped the right of crisis care parents to family allowance and child care, and we are bringing him back to the same level as he was today. [[Abg. Erasim: That's not true!]] But what is the SPÖ doing? – Mr Birgit Sandler made his debut on 31 December. Januaryen a press release, and I'm allowed to quote from it: ‘Law proposal makes it impossible to claim child care allowance’, the family ministry abandons crisis care parents; the right to child care is excluded. – These are smooth lies. [[Hö-Rufe and other calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: No, an injunction action...!]] I have come to this house in the hope of being able to work carefully for the benefit of people. – This is not possible with you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Sandler, apologise to the public for your lies, the - [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26036	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take back the expression of lie, otherwise I must give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26060	Do I have to take it back, even if it's black on white?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26084	Either You take the expression back, or I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26099	I would like to talk to you about - - - untruth can we say? - An untruth! [[Abg. Schimanek: Untruth can be said!]] And for untruth, you have to apologize, I think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] You have misled the public, and I call on the public to read your press releases more critically in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So, I would also like to say something on this subject in terms of content: It is right that crisis care parents should be supported and that we have too few. The question is what the solution is. I now come to the subject-matter policy, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to work with you on arguments and stop with all polemics and untruth. [[Call the SPÖ: Very embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Well, you can then represent at the injunction action on the other side!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] On the subject: We have a problem here, and we have to solve it. And I would like to say very clearly here: The competence to help crisis care parents lies with the countries. The applications that have now been submitted by the opposition parties, for example on childcare allowance from the first day on, we cannot support them, for the following reasons: We need to treat all parents in the same way. With the law repair we decide today, we do. Your request does not do so. We cannot solve a country problem with federal resources either. Nor do we want a solution which, as Mr Bernhard proposes, only helps those crisis caregivers who care for under three years of age, and that would be unfair. We want to help crisis caretakers. Together with the countries, solutions have to be found here – for this we have to have; we are not for polemics and untruths.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26194	I call Mr Laimer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26215	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I would like to get away from the polemics of my predecessor, to concentrate entirely on the Father's Early Care and therefore welcome all future fathers and invite them to do so. The papal month must not be a privilege of officials and politicians. [[Abg. Schimanek: on the matter!]] What is possible for the vice chancellor of the Republic of Austria must also be made possible for Max Modellmann in the private sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists and Socialists demand justice for all fathers based on the family-time bonus law and no exclusive right for those in the public service. Only the legal claim including termination protection motivates all fathers of good will to make real use of a papal month. Due to the existing legal uncertainty, only 6 percent of fathers have been able to use the family time bonus for their baby in 2017. This is anything other than modern, that is anything but a progressive family policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as it has been a matter of course for decades that fathers are present at the birth of their children in the Cress Hall, this papal month should also be a matter of course in order to give the opportunity to spend the first days with the newborn and to strengthen the emotional bond between baby and dad massively. Father and child will benefit both sides of life and the mother will be better supported after the child is born. It is a win-win situation in the relationship triangle mother-father-child. [[Abg. Schimanek: You should have spoken to the next item on the agenda!]] For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26341	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. Mrs Bogner-Strauß has once again spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26365	I would also like to talk briefly about father participation in Austria. I can give you Call for a legal claim to a papal month only partially recover something, I must say, because we have had a right to father's leave in Austria since 1990. [[Abg. Jarolim: After all!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: You are on the path of improvement!]] [[Abg. New builder: Look!]] In the meantime, father participation in child care benefits is already 19 percent. Within about 30 years, we have thus managed, despite legal claims – and I say now: unfortunately – not to inspire more than 20 percent of fathers. I think this is very bad, but I think it needs a social rethinking in Austria, especially in order to involve more fathers, because in my opinion, child rearing and care are parental work. And in Austria it is still very traditional that after birth mothers mainly care for the children. We have also been entitled to parental leave since 2004. Yes, the part-time is very well used after the birth of children, but mostly only by women and often over many years, and this then leads to a very high gender pay Gap and in addition to a big difference in the pension. I think it takes a social rethinking to start with, as we see it in Scandinavia. If we give fathers the opportunity to participate in child rearing at home when both parents go in parental age – even if there is already a legal claim – at least I believe that we will close the gender pay Gap, that is to say, reduce the wage shears in Austria, and also strongly reduce the poverty of women. That is why I appeal to all parents in Austria: Child rearing is parenting, and a legal claim can be an aid, but one must do the same. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26431	Mrs Jachs is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26452	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Fathers. It is nice that we agree today at least once, when it comes to the fact that crisis caregivers are doing incredibly important work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] These are quite fates when offices decide that children should no longer live with their physical parents, but rather temporarily come to crisis - care parents. These children often only come to the crisis caretakers with what they wear on the body. You have to imagine that. The Federal Minister has said it several times – today, in the Committee, medially – and is really comprehensible and vividly explaining what we are doing today. For colleagues who do not want to understand or cannot understand, as the last speaker, I would like to explain it again: Today we repair the inequality of crisis care parents; that is, we repair the law. There is the OGH judgment, which says crisis care parents are not parents in the conventional sense, and even the OLG would have failed the crisis care parents' right to child care benefits at all because it was not a permanent form of residence. What we are doing today is to restore the original state. That looks like: The physical parents – we have already heard it – are entitled to child care benefits after 91 days. If there is a common residence in these 91 days, the child care allowance shall be paid retroactively with the date of birth. The same applies to crisis care parents, so they also have a claim. If they care for the child for 91 days, the money will be paid retroactively. So we're restoring the original legal situation. Dear colleagues from the SPÖ, you have agreed to this law at the time. I invite you to take this decision again today. [[Abg. Erasim: It won’t be better if you do it...!]] Moreover, we will also include the crisis - care parents as parents defined in the law today; then they are treated in law with physical parents, adoptive parents and nursing parents. So, and now we come to the point where it's a little bit spooky: If one were to shorten the time requirement, those 91 days, then one would improve the crisis - care parents in relation to the child - care allowance compared to the physical parents, adoptive parents or normal nursing parents. So, and now we have the problem with the principle of equality. That wouldn't be the case. Ladies and gentlemen! One of them always brags about the fight for equality, but obviously they did not understand the principle of equality to the full extent; we have seen this impressively at the previous item on the agenda. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] We should really deal with this issue sensitively and constructively. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Kovacevic also spoke on the condition of entitlement for the family time bonus: You feel that the parents should be in the hospital for an average of 4 hours at their child's early school, yes, not practical. [[Abg. Kucharovich: Per parent! Both parts!]] I have to say that shakes me in my world view, because I wouldn't leave my morning alone in the incubator for hours or days. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for explaining this matter in a matter that has always been objective and understandable lately. Thank you for the work of crisis care parents; and thank you for also wanting to evaluate the requirements of child care, family time bonus in the future, because it is crucial that we treat all parents the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26528	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. The rapporteur does not wish any more final words. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 494 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Bernhard, colleagues and a motion for an amendment by Mr Sandler, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendments mentioned, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen, we have an amendment concerning Rule. 2 Z 2. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Sandler, fellow Members, also have an amendment concerning Rule. 2 Z 2. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Mr Sandler, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on the subject. 3 Z 1 inserted. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, not accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues and colleagues on 'Childcare for crisis care parents'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority, not accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen, on support for short-term care workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority, not accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sandler, colleagues, on the right to a 'papa month'. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, not accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26653	I have received the minutes of Mr Nehammer's speech. Before we come to Agenda item 10, I give him a call for an order for “and not for a Phariseelike one, just like Social Democracy today”. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wooker: Go!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Vote yes!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: That's what the Wöginger said!]] [[20:33:32]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth on the proposal from Mr Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr BA, colleagues, on the possibility of using Father's leave after the family season (493, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26723	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mrs Holzleitner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26751	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The request made by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber on ‘The possibility of using Father's leave after the family season’ criticises that it is currently not permitted to take a father's leave immediately after the father's month. This is a gap in the attraction, the In our opinion, we should be closed, which is why we have supported this request in the Committee. A corresponding change would make sense to involve fathers more in family work and to strengthen partnership. In fact, many workers want to be able to take fatherly leave directly on this fatherly month thereafter. Half-half even in child care, at home with the child must not remain a vision, but must finally become reality for us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It should not be a question of premeditation, but rather of promoting the possibility of choice, promoting that Father's care is used even more and that a break is finally taking place in our society. More men would be happy to spend more time with their children, but only one really goes in Karenz, and most of the time only briefly. This has many reasons, for example, that the income shears in Austria continue to be more distinct than in the EU average, or that there are still not enough childcare places – across the board, free and day-to-day. It is still reality that the vast majority of fathers work full-time and the mother remains at home for a long time after the birth of her child or later gets back into part-time work. In order to achieve equality and participation really as a political goal, it is necessary to take targeted measures at the gender level and to ensure that they are balanced. Unfortunately, we do not see this trend in current policy, which has also shown the rejection of this proposal in the Committee. I would like to take a brief look, because it is a matter of participation, to make a small excursion towards the morning. I am pleased that Mr Haider is back in the sitting, because he showed in the morning what the Freedom Party unfortunately really considers to be a part of it. It has defamed one of the largest and best demonstration projects in terms of participation and the 1,000 young people involved in this process. The youth objectives are: During the EU Presidency over the past half year, there has been a youth conference – the woman minister was there – and all of us – across parties – have strongly supported these youth goals as a positive example of participation. The Freedom Party, however, defames all young people who have participated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is a shame, it is a shame for a candidate who is joining the EU election. More can be said, in fact, than that it is a shame to talk about the EU but want to move into the EP. To return to the topic, I would like to conclude with a quote from the campaign by Helga Konrad from the nineties: “Full men make half-half.”
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26808	Mrs Kuss-Bergner came next. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26829	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! If you have a family, if you live in a partnership – in my case you would call it a marriage – take responsibility for children, you know what it means to bear responsibility, not selfishly alone for yourself, but in partners. The Commission will be able to take decisions to promote a common family life. In the Family Committee, we are also in favour of creating legal framework conditions within which families can move and develop. Ladies and gentlemen, deciding on legal claims is a nice thing, but must not always have the desired effects. The Father's Care, which Mrs. Minister referred to, was introduced decades ago, but is still not overly accepted – just by almost 20 percent. The biggest challenge we have to face is that we cannot take a modern family image by law. A modern family image also needs a social rethink – these are not my words, these are the words of our family minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I was allowed to get to know Mrs Bogner-Strauß as a woman who is important to the decisions of the partnership and for whom it is also important to promote women and to maintain a family image which is not just a word for partnership. A higher father participation corresponds to a modern family image, and this should also be supported accordingly. Family and childcare should not be a purely women's theme for the future. We have also discussed the family committee intensively about paternal care and dad's months, and I am very glad that this issue will be discussed at the highest level. The competent Federal Ministers Mrs Bogner-Strauß, Mrs Hartinger-Klein and Mrs Schramböck are in the process of developing a model for a legal claim to a father month. This cross-sectoral activity will also, I am convinced, lead to an appropriate legislative proposal. It is important not only to take a common approach, such as in partnership families, but also to take into account the challenges for small and medium-sized enterprises with few employees and to pay attention to EU developments. As in the family, we want to do so here too, because without a strong economic location, there are no jobs with legal rights to anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26878	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e26899	Madam President. High house! In fact, it would have been a step forward if my colleague Holzinger's request for a right to father's leave following the family bonus in the Committee had not been rejected but had been accepted. This would have brought more clarity and this would have been a very positive thing even before the outcome of studies related to father-child relations. A study by a gender expert from Joanneum Research, also called Holzinger, shows the following: In fact, if fathers are already involved in childcare in the first weeks of life in the first days and weeks, this promotes a very strong bond from the beginning between fathers on the one hand and the children on the other. But it also leads fathers to worry much more about the care of their children from now on than if that were not the case. That is why it is also crucial that we take a step forward in the debate about the Papa month. The debate started at the beginning of the year. On the one hand, Vice chancellor Strache has used a paternal month, on the other hand, Minister of Social Affairs Hartinger-Klein has an advantage in the programme “In the Centre” – no, not “In the Center” – yes, exactly! – made on Sunday morning on the show. [[Abg. Schimanek: In the “press hour” it was!]] But if you keep slowing down on this question, that's the ÖVP. It's amazing that it slows down again and again, and actually it's not quite understandable. The regulation is currently in such a way that although there is the papal month, there is little incentive in fact to use this papal month. Why? – Because there is no legal claim and because there is no termination protection. If you look at the figures to what extent the papal month has been used so far, you can see that it has been around 7,000 cases – but there are also those who in fact have a legal claim to it, namely the officials. If there were a legal claim with termination protection and there would be a better financial security for the papal month than it is at present, then – I am sure – this papal month would be much more used than it is currently. However, when the discussion on the issue of the legal claim relating to the papal month came, the ÖVP, in particular Mrs Schramböck's minister, made a rather harsh statement and meant that it was not going for the economy at all, and she asked for a discharge for the economy, because a paternal month was a pity to the economy. The ÖVP has now risen a little from the brake when it has shown that an EU directive is in place which provides for a ten-day paternity leave with a legal claim and financial security. Ladies and gentlemen, at the previous item on the agenda, we have already talked about the papal month, and as government groups you have already had the opportunity to agree to the papal month with legal claims – but you have not done so. I would therefore like to know once again – we give you a second chance – and submit a request which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, stand by this papal month, then now you agree! – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on now.]] [[20:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27007	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is under negotiation. Mr Haider spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27034	Madam President. This morning, Member Eva Holzleitner claimed that I had defamed thousands of young people in my speech. I'm actually correcting: I didn't defamate anyone. I quote from my speech what I said: “One of the EU’s eleven youth goals – one hears and is amazed – is [...] the ‘righteousness of all sexes’. They have heard correctly: ‘all genders’. It doesn't say: both sexes, neither does it: Equality between men and women; no [...] ‘all genders’ – just as these left-left brachilidologists do in their madness of destruction.” Man and woman have served, there are now many sexes. To bravo! “We needed that. Thank you [...] EU!" That is what I said, and that is not a defamation of thousands of young people, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27067	Mrs Schimanek is now speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27089	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about the papal month today: The father's father, who was a member of the family, has been a member of the family since the 1st century. On 1 March 2017, the so-called papal month was opened in agreement with the employer immediately after the birth of her child. For this family time bonus there are currently 700 euros, and this is also accepted. This family-time bonus is based on any later child care allowance from the father, which in this case reduces the amount of child care allowance, but does not reduce the period of reference. It has been mentioned several times today, yes, the papal month is an enrichment for fathers. Our vice chancellor has been quoted several times today, H.-C. Strache has always said that it was a family political profit for him to go to the papal month. My son-in-law also enjoyed spending this month with my grandson, and the young family grew even more together. The Papa month is a contribution to family and work agreement, and that is why the three ministers for social, family and economic affairs will develop a model across the board, which will examine how it is possible to take into account the interests of workers and employers, because it is often difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to create the corresponding offers. But our direction is clear, we want greater fatherhood. But now to Mrs Vogtenhuber's request: Mr Rossmann, I think you have not really read the request. I have now taken care of your speech, you have not referred to this request at all, you have spoken in general, but you have not known why we reject this request and do not support it. We do so for a number of reasons, and that is why we will reject the other proposal. Employment Prohibition Tag: Mr Rossmann, perhaps you know that there is no employment ban for mothers up to eight weeks after birth, even up to 12 weeks after birth. That is, if the father goes into the father's month and wants to go into father's care immediately, that is not because there is still a mother's ban on employment. The father can't go into father's care right away, that's just impossible. That is why I have also rejected this request. [[Abg. Rossmann: The request would have made a clarification!]] Furthermore, I do not believe that it concerns a lot of fathers. I think it's more likely that there will be a few individual cases. That is why I do not think it is appropriate to support this request now. The real reason for my rejection, however, is that I simply do not see and do not need the need for this change in law. I think we have a very good arrangement and it will be even better for the families in Austria with the improvement in the paternal month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27125	Mr Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27147	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Papamoon, family season bonus, partnership bonus, karenz, child care allowance – income dependent or flat-rate –, father's care and so on and so on: Do everyone still have an overview of what opportunities there are for a young parent to take advantage of a chance to be with the family, how this will be paid off, what do you not want to risk? Each individual family policy measure, each decision and every law pursues a purpose and has a goal. However, the question of whether these purposes and objectives each support each other or make each other obsolutive has never been fully evaluated from my point of view. We have a family policy that is characterised by many small and large measures. We have a lot of services for our young families, which are difficult to see and which you always have to match each other. This means that any change in a law in turn requires a change in another law. We are away from a simple, clear legislation. What we do in family policy is the opposite of deregulation. The colleague did indeed address a real problem with regard to the paternal month. On the issue of the gap between the father's month and the father's care, it has, in my view, correctly identified the problem, but not the right solution. The solution she is proposing now is to plant another tree in the jungle that I have just presented if you want. A change to the law of the Father's Care Act – which, by the way, is not at all in the Family Committee, son- in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it would be the right way from its point of view. This would be another single measure, and it would further reduce transparency and less clarity, and not more family-friendlyness. I put in the room: If we think something different, we do not think in the existing system. If we had a green meadow that we certainly don't have right now: What would be the right offer for people who want to start a family? As NEOS, we believe that it needs a simple and clear solution that includes everything, an individual claim for each parent. What does this individual claim mean? – We imagine 18 months for each parent, in the majority of cases, father and mother can stay at home each 18 months with a dependent child care allowance. However, the claim is not transferable to the second parent. That means that both have to figure out who wants to stay for how long. These 18 months – this is a model that already works in Sweden – can also be used on several stages in the first seven years. This would make the discussion about the Father's Care, the papal month obsolete, because the family can simply decide for themselves: If I use it after I'm born, do I use it when the child comes to kindergarten, do I use it in school? – That would be very good. In Sweden there is a very successful phase of family policy. There it is obvious that the father's participation is more or less a social must. An official can only succeed in the civil service if he has also exhausted his father's care. A man has to be a father there, so to speak, as part of his job. It is no longer the case that the family benefit system automatically transfers responsibility to the woman. It is there a responsibility of both, and there we want NEOS too. We believe that the people in our country are already ready. We believe in the freedom of choice, so there is no provision for who should now use how much, but it should be possible to the same extent. Let us take a new path in family policy! We spend 10 percent of our government budget on family benefits. 10 percent, and yet we still don't have the right answers. That's better. If you want to go a better way, you have the support of NEOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27202	No one is reporting on this. So I close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to take note of its report 493 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of a right to family life. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a similar sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[20:56:46]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 5, 7, 11 and 14 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 33, 38, 39, 48, 50 and 51 (495 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27265	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27293	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. It is really a very nice job to work towards the concerns of the citizens and to be there for their concerns. I compare this with how it is at home as mayor. There are also people with very different concerns. It is nice to be able to move something for these citizens, and I also see the work in our Committee on Petitions. We take the concerns of our citizens very seriously and get opinions from experts and from ministries, examine them extensively and then come to the conclusion, unanimously or by a majority, that we either take note of these citizens' initiatives or petitions or that we assign them to a specialist committee. In the last Committee meeting about two weeks ago, each club had the opportunity to choose a specific topic, a specific petition or citizens' initiative, and to invite an expert to do so. In this hearing we have dedicated ourselves to Wolf by the People's Party. There are three petitions available, one from the forest district of Mrs Diesner-Wais, one from Salzburg by Franz Eßl and one from Tirol from Hermann Gahr. We have therefore made it our task to guarantee the protection of citizens, in particular for the protection of the population, so that people can also live there safely, and to create a legal basis for sheep, goat and cattle farmers and tourism. It is also about improving support for farmers when they are damaged. We have invited a very profound expert, university professor Klaus Hackländer of the Boku Institute of Wild Biology, who, with his statements and his profound knowledge, has brought the very emotional debate to an objective level. - That's exactly where that belongs. However, it is also a fact that we need to catch up on Wolf, not only at national level, but also at EU level. But since my following speakers will address this issue a little more precisely, I would like to conclude by thanking our expert, Mr University Professor Hackländer, for his good information. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The FPÖ called for an improvement in the position of the judicial guard in the expert hearing and for this to be done by Brigadier Dr. Michael Binder from the Directorate-General for Penalty. After intensive discussion, we have unanimously taken note of this citizens' initiative, because the government is working with High pressure on the establishment of an ambitious programme for the execution of the sentence. The hearing theme of the JETZT list and the NEOS also came from the field of justice, which dealt with human rights and humane action. They invited the expert Markus Drechsler, who reported from his own experience and said that an improvement of the government's action is about to be completed. That is why we have largely taken note of this citizens' initiative. The SPÖ has, in turn, chosen a different theme of hearing, namely that of Mr Mario Lindner for greater quality in road transport. There we discussed the toll of trucks in parts of Austria, for which the SPÖ invited the district chief Josef Dick. It demands that there be preventive steering measures. We have unanimously postponed this petition. In addition to these very interesting hearing issues, I would like to briefly draw up a citizens' initiative, which is about the exception of holding and parking bans for visiting family work. For example, this is about re-help, logos and so on and so on. However, since we do not see a situation of urgency or urgency, we have largely taken note of this citizens' initiative. Finally, I would like to thank all the experts once again for the very interesting information. Generally speaking, we can say that we are working very consensus-oriented in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, even though there are many different things to discuss and different views of the individual political groups are available. In principle, however, this works very well. I would also like to thank Mr Bernhard for his consensus-oriented approach.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27369	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27390	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives; Mr Hofinger has already mentioned it. Of course, this is not always as consensual as we imagine it, in so far as we opened the door to a public hearing. I think this is a really great institution to appreciate all the citizens who are finally ready to participate in these petitions and citizens' initiatives in writing, so that we can discuss them properly and work them out in the Committee – I will come later. What also bothers us is that such a hearing has taken place for the first time since, I think, three years now, especially during this legislative period. I could really imagine that we agree that there could be a public hearing in our committee at least twice a year, so that we can really deal with these concerns of our citizens properly, just as we all, unisono, in all parties, carry them consensually outside and say: We appreciate this and we want to debate it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Bernhard.]] As stated in the collective report, we had four main themes in this hearing. The Wolf was addressed very strongly in the Waldviertel, Tirol and Salz- burg. The debate on this issue has also been properly held – it has already been discussed. We have heard the experts, and we have really succeeded in assigning this important point to the Committee on Agriculture. The citizens' initiative regarding a ban on trucks or heavy goods vehicles off the road network is a particularly important issue and concerns not only a region, but also Austria as a whole. There are toll refugees who, with their heavy traffic, travel through all the towns, and I think here, all are called upon to assign this point to the committee in which he belongs when he returns to the Committee on Petitions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But of course, what is a bit hurtful: We have had two issues which are also particularly important: human rights-compliant and decent implementation of measures and, as far as justice is concerned, the improvement of the legal position of the guard, namely the judicial guard. As Mr Hofinger has already asked me why these important points on human rights and also on judicial guards are simply swept away by the government parties and not assigned to the specialist committees. You would have really deserved to be debated accordingly. That's the wormhead drop of this collection report. I would also like to ask our chairman, Mr Bernhard, that we may, as at the outset, discuss a consensus for two hearings a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27451	Mr Wagner has been mentioned in the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27472	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Death aid: This is something you hope to never be personally confronted with. That's something you'd rather never talk about. And then, if there is a current occasion, this issue is suddenly omnipresent in the public debate. In the field of tension between dying in dignity and protection of life, ethical, moral and human views collide. Exercising For and against death aid and debated legal possibilities and barriers. In silence, each of us hopes never to have to experience this situation ourselves, standing in front of a sickbed in which a loved, incurable sick person lies. One hopes never to see this suffering and this pain helplessly over months and years. In 2015, under the motto “Würde at the End of Life”, Austrian politics has produced a position paper with 51 recommendations across all party borders. The aim is to ensure the sustainable supply of hospice and palliative care and the further development of patient care. The fact that words can also follow up has already demonstrated impressively the Federal Government. Our Federal Minister Beate Hartinger-Klein has succeeded in creating legal certainty with the new provision of patients and in taking the fear of inability to act – an important step to ensure the right of individuals to self-determination. In addition, the adjustment of the Medical Law has already been made to ensure that the best possible pain therapy is provided to each person concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, this federal government is committed to the dignity and will of man also in his last phase of life. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Further measures for our Austrians will now and in the future be adopted by us in order to meet this obligation. This petition shall be taken into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27523	Next item is the report by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27545	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have brought together a hearing in the Committee on Petitions for the first time in the new legislative period. What does Hearing mean? – This means that the initiators or nominated experts discuss a particular topic with the Members. We have done this on the subject of Wolf, on the subject of judicial security, on the subject of transport, heavy traffic and on the implementation of measures. I believe that this exchange is an extremely valuable tool for Members. We now also note this elsewhere, in other words, with popular desire, in which such committees also meet and an exchange with the initiators and with experts. I was sitting in there and – I say this free from the liver – thought to myself: Why don't we do this more often? Why are we hiding the active parliament behind the walls of the Hofburg? We have, in fact, already made dozens of requests to make the Committee on Petitions a centre of active democracy and of parliamentarianism, where citizens can, with their initiatives, actually go into an in-depth exchange with Members. They would no longer have to choose one from a constituency that they might like best about the colour teaching, but they could exchange with all, and that is enormously enriching. I can also announce at this point that at the next plenary session we will re-establish our request to reform the Committee on Petitions. I see three very central elements through which we can achieve little: If we say that 5 000 signatures are a hearing obligation, from 5 000 signatures, the initiator or initiator can present the subject to the honourable Member for a few minutes and discuss it with them. I think that's self-evident. The second point is that we are bringing the Committee on Petitions into a digital presence. It is completely incomprehensible why citizens can bring a concern with 500 signatures to the National Council, but we do not provide a debate platform of digital nature, for example, as the German Bundestag does. The third point – and this is no less important – is: A Committee on Petitions, a Committee of an Active Parliament dealing with citizens and their citizens It is a matter of concern, with very specific concerns, to be public. There is no public petition committee to be set up. If we were to implement these three “small” building blocks – under quotation marks, we would think of ourselves as Members of Parliament every time we go to the Committee on Petitions: What a great exchange this can be with the people in our country! Let us experiment in the Committee on Petitions, as may be done in other committees! There is a lot in our country that we do not hear, because we are shutting down by rigid rules, and this is what it applies to breaking up. I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27596	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27617	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Wolf is a subject that is very busy with us all over Austria, but also especially in my home country, in the forest district. We discuss the subject emotionally and controversially and we see that there is a growing population in our neighbouring countries, but not only there, but also in Austria. The agriculture and forestry has its fears and concerns, but many people in the forest area are already concerned. If we look at the figures now, we already have over 30 000 wolves throughout Europe and up to 20 000 in the European Union. Wolf population is on the rise, in some parts by 30 percent a year. In Austria there is a conflict in populated areas. If I only look at the summer of 2018, we have had more than 20 sheep in areas of the forest district in a week, and these have happened near houses and settlements. Therefore, fear is of course very great. If we hear from the experts that there is a need for action, I would also like to thank you once again for the hearing. It was very interesting to have with us the head of the Boku Institute of Wild Biology and the hunting industry, Klaus Hackländer. He himself said that we currently have about 20 to 25 wolves in Austria, which will increase to up to 500 in the next few years. Austria is more or less a country that has many sources of food and in which the natural enemy, the human being, is missing in the sense, and therefore there are problems for agriculture, especially for pasture farming. We all want a biological, animal-friendly attitude, and with that the animal has to go to pasture or runaway, and with that the problem arises. However, the problem arises even if there are torn sheep and other animals, which also causes a lot of animal suffering and not only economic damage to the owner. Therefore, I think it is important for the future that you can manage the wolf population and also hunt it specifically. To this end, it would be necessary to amend the FFH Directive, in which the wolf is currently in Annex IV, so that the regulation of stocks is not possible. If the wolf were to come into Annex V, which is true in other European countries, for example in Spain, it would be an important element. However, since he is no longer threatened with extinction, a withdrawal could also take place. So there would be a shyness and the behavior would change. I believe that it is important that we talk about this issue in an objective way, because the people are afraid, and agriculture and forestry also have disadvantages. If I can only take an example from around me: Johannes Prinz, a sheep breeders, had three visits of a wolf in one week. Ten sheep were torn there, and that was 100 meters away from the house. Of course, he is very afraid of his grandchildren who live there. I ask you: Who would not be afraid in his place? We also found with the wolf monitoring that many wolves are already coming near bus stops, and of course the parents are very scared when they send their children there early in the morning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Therefore, the pasture economy in the present form is not compatible with the wolf. We need safety for the population and, of course, the possibility that pasture farming and animal husbandry can continue to take place in this way. In Lower Austria we have already taken a step in this direction, but it belongs to more done. We need wild-ecological spatial planning and wolf-free zones. The Centre, which is now being created, can make a big contribution to this, and I am particularly pleased that this petition has also found its way into the Special Committee on Agriculture, in which we are really discussing how to deal with it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27675	The next item is the speech by Mrs Erasim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27696	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators via live stream! I would like to express my opinion today on a citizens' initiative dealing with the issue of the creation of a human rights-compliant and decent implementation of measures. I would like to do so because, as a Social Democratic Party, we also have a valid federal party decision and have tried to make much progress in this regard over the past few years. The implementation of the measures shall provide for preventive release-absorbing measures to accommodate dangerous offenders and perpetrators who cannot be condemned for lack of guilt. In practice, § 21 regulates the often occurring accommodation in an institution for mentally abnormal legal breakers. § 22 concerns accommodation in an institution for deweaning needy legal rupturers and § 23 concerns accommodation in an institution for dangerous relapse offenders. For years, a fundamental reform of the implementation of measures has been required by our side. Why are we doing that? From our point of view – and we have been following a policy of justice, which has also strongly influenced Christian Broda for decades – a fundamental reform of the implementation of measures in the sense set out not only would mean more humanity, but would also bring more security to all, to the inmates as well as to the judicial guards and ultimately to society as a whole, because modern and successful therapy would significantly reduce the risk potential. In 2014 a Task Force was set up, a multi-professional working group was set up which evaluated the state of the implementation of the action and put forward proposals for reform in a technical, organisational and legislative manner. it has. In spring 2017, Minister of Justice Brandstetter then presented a draft law, which included essential, though not all, demands of the Expert Committee. Unfortunately, due to the end of the legislative period, this draft could not be dealt with in a parliamentary way. What bothers me so much about the procedure in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is that it was our intention to ask for an opinion from the Minister of Justice, which has been wiped out by the government groups. I can also understand why: The Minister of Justice is one of the few on the government side who is ready to talk about this and is really trying to improve it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it's a shame that this approach was chosen. In such a sensitive area as action implementation, we should rely on expertise. This should be put on a broad basis, and there should be nothing to seek from party policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27753	Mr Lausch has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27775	Mr President. High house! This hearing, which was held this time, was very important. – I can only underline that. I would like to see more of that personally. We liberals have selected the topic of improving, improving, optimizing the guard body for justice. This is a citizens' initiative, which has been signed by a number of thousands of citizens and is also very important, because it is known that the guard has no clear professional profile. The expert we have selected is Brigadier Dr. Michael Binder from the Ministry of Justice – or BMVRDJ, I am abdicating it with the Ministry of Justice – who, of course, also criticised and said that this citizen initiative, which is the concern of the contributors, is worthy of support. He also said that he did not understand some of the statements of the Federal Ministry of Justice that some things had been mixed and that some of the points that this citizens' initiative, which were important for the guard were not addressed at all. Of course, he also had some criticism and said that it would be very legitimate and timely to seek a clear, contemporary career. He also compared this: Justice officials are entrusted with security tasks, but they should also be social workers, psychologists and supervisors. It's not all that could be demanded from social workers, psychologists, doctors. Absolutely justified is also the demand for inclusion in the Security Police Act. That would be an important thing to ask for. These are absolutely good things; the security police law would clarify a lot, improve and also regulate a lot. Mr Knes said that he did not understand why we merely took note of this citizens' initiative – I do not see it as merely. I have also said in the Committee that we are on the right track and are already in the process of implementing some of the things from the government side. Of course, there will still be some conversations. There is now a draft of the Executive Manual, which has just passed through the Central Committee – that is the highest body of staff representation. The Central Committee has asked for an extension of the time limit, since For the benefit of the judicial guards, who do good and important work every day, these 100 pages must look more closely. This was rejected by the BMVRDJ and this extension was not approved. It was also established, in the light of transparency, that this is not an implementation manual, but rather a care provision. This is, of course, not in the interests of this citizens' initiative. You'll have to talk about it. The manual was also unanimously rejected in the Central Committee today. To the other petitions, I would like to say a little more briefly: Mr Erasim spoke about the implementation of measures – improvement, decentness and so on and so on. We did not ask any questions to the expert nominated by NEOS. We would have liked to. We are very ready to talk on the subject of action. They are always mixed with those who are not accountable. Often problems are addressed that are not present – now the dangerous relapse perpetrators have been called; there have been no more convictions for years – but they are always mixed in there. Thus, many herb and beet are mixed together on the subject of action. We are very well ready to talk, but not with an expert who – I say it now – comes from the other side, that is, even years ago, was in action. We don't want to discuss with such an expert. It's a matter of being serious about saying: In Austria we have a lot of good psychiatrists, psychologists, doctors, social workers, so people who have been working in action for decades. – These are the true experts for us. So we can't befriend ourselves with this procedure. In the Committee, Mr Bernhard, the NEOS said that it was not known that this was the first signatory, and so on and so on. – However, the press spokesperson of NEOS says something quite different – and I think that is very, very objectionable: “This man is active in the scene, we are listening to what he has to say.” – So that’s where it stops out of consideration for the dignity of the house of fun! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't say you didn't know, and then your press officer says you listen to what he has to say. What is meant by the man being “active in the scene” is that I don’t want to do it any more now; I don’t know. But one thing is certain: There can now be called upon by the Obmann colleague Bernhard Reforms – we want reforms too – but there should be no more such thing as hurting the dignity of the House and bruising and not inviting the real experts on the subject of action. It simply can't be from our point of view. - I'll bet you'll do it. I suppose it happened, you're sorry. In this sense, I would also like us to reform the Committee on Petitions. It doesn't take much, but you can easily discuss allowing the public at Hearings. We have nothing to hide. The citizens who sign would also be interested in what continues to happen that they would like to have more insight. This proposal could be drawn up without further delay. In this sense, I would like us to keep even more hearings and show the population that we are taking direct democracy here in Parliament very, very seriously – and that fractional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27836	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have dealt with 29 petitions or citizens' initiatives in committee, and three of them have dealt with Wolf. I would like to refer to a closer approach, namely the “Petition for a wolf-free Salzburg”, signed by the Sheep Breeding Association Salzburg and by the Cattle Breeding Association Salzburg. Signatorys point out that in Salzburg, for example, 100 000 cattle, 35 000 sheep and goats and 5,000 horses are on pastures and pastures each year. In their petition, they express the concern that this pasture economy could not be as possible in the future. The pasture industry means high-quality food. The pasture industry means cultural landscape and recreation area for tourists and people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the signatorys of the petition, including those who have ultimately declared their support digitally. The Landesverband der Sheep- und Goat Breeders and the Cattle Breeding Association demand legal bases to be able to identify problem wolves faster and more unbureaucratically. They also generally require an amendment to the FFH Directive on the protection of wolves. In their opinion, they also call for the use of wolf management across Europe and not at Member State level or in even smaller areas. There are different views in Austria: Some believe that the wolf is a cuddly animal, others see in it a real serious problem, especially those who have to live by the livestock industry. That is why, I think, it is also important for the central statements made by Professor Hackländer in this hearing to be put out a little. He says that there are currently 20 to 25 wolves in Austria. The annual growth rate is 30 percent, so in 15 years realistically there could be 50 to 500 individuals; for 1,000 wolves, the feed base would actually be present. He also says quite clearly and clearly that pastures and pastures in the form that we do not only operate today, but also want them to be socially political, would no longer be possible. It is not about farmers being compensated for individual torn sheep, but about: The wolf – and I say that now – will change the face of our country. Therefore, the question of whether the high protection status is actually justified is justified. I say – if you look at it across Europe: No, the wolf is not threatened with extinction. Because the topic of Wolf is large-scale, it is also justified to set wolf-free zones. I therefore support the “Petition for a wolf-free Salzburg” one too one. One last thing: The urban population must also be concerned about the future. The wolf has no natural enemies. He will also come to the urban areas. Some say that the wolf is not aggressive; but if the wolf comes into a situation of distress, it will be so that it will stand. Then there could be an accident and an aggression against the human being, and we want to avoid that from the outset. The Committee has decided to allocate the petition to the Committee on Agriculture, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27923	Mr Lindner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e27944	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I can give many of my previous speakers the right to speak. The only thing that is a little too bad in the debate on citizens' initiatives and petitions – Mr President, perhaps we can change this in the future? – is that we are unfortunately almost always discussing these issues at the end of the agenda. I believe that the concerns of citizens should also have deserved a better ORF broadcast time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hofinger, Mr Knes and Mr Bernhard have already referred to the petition “For real quality in road transport!” in their speeches. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is really an issue that burns down the nails of the citizens of our regions, our districts. They know that Styria has had its own political decision-making bodies in the regions outside for a number of years. With me in the Liezen district, which is a region at the same time, we have been discussing this body very much for a long time across all the party borders on this subject of trucks and the road avoidable traffic. In December 2018, there was a unanimous decision by ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Green and zig municipal council decisions, which say that we must bring it together, that we are bringing the trucks that have lost nothing in the district of Liezen. The specific requirement is: a truck ban with the exception of the target and source traffic for trucks over 3.5 tonnes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We talked to very, very many experts about how to do this in advance. A proposal is a change to the road transport regulations, which is to be included in § 43 of the case-law of road transport. The Committee has also discussed the issue of a number of opinions. There is, for example, an opinion from the Regional Management Reader, which explains the support for this petition “for the benefit and for the relief of the entire population and in the sense of the further development and competitiveness of the Liezen region”. The Board of Directors for Transport Safety supports this petition, the Federal Chamber of Labour supports this petition. What is exciting is the opinion of the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport says: “There is no way to determine whether a truck has chosen a particular route only to avoid paying toll.” – Dear Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is exciting because there are two ways to do this. The simplest way to do this is for the police to control it. The second possibility is time measurement. The district of Liezen borders with the federal states of Lower Austria, Upper Austria, Salzburg. Now you only need to measure whether a truck, for example, goes in from the Lower Austrian side and then out on the other side, and thus there is a toll prevention or not. – So this is relatively easy to determine. The VCÖ's opinion is still missing. We held this hearing, our district chief Dick was with us, and it was really great what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, I really ask that You are still looking at this petition very carefully – we have it again next time in the committee – so that we can come to a solution relatively quickly and change road traffic regulations. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl.]] Every company, every freighter, every truck has the right road to use, not the cheapest!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28020	Mrs Wassermann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28042	Mr President. Estimated employees of the house! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dog or gold shawl, no it was an Isegrim. – This afternoon was the headline of the online edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”. Yes, it was also confirmed that there was a wolf vision in the Gail Valley in Carinthia today. The subject of wolves has already been intensive in several committees. It was discussed very emotionally, but also very controversially. Dr. Klaus Hackländer von der Boku has told us that there are between 25 and 50 living wolves in Austria. In the next 15 years, this can even be between 50 and 500. If the wolf becomes domestic in Austria and at the same time continues to be under strict protection, alm management is under threat in its present form. This would, among other things, have a massive negative impact on the Hohe Tauern National Park. While reading the petitions, as a member of the Tourism Committee, I also asked myself some questions: What can be done to limit the situation? What is the tolerable population? How does the wolf in its habitat affect the remaining wild population? But above all also: How does this affect tourism? I cannot give you today the answer in the wild-ecological sense, but I can give you today a responsible political answer: The Federal Government will do all it can to ensure the exemplary management of the alpine pastures, which are a high cultural heritage and have a great tourist benefit, in the future. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, this is also due to a recent judgment – you certainly remember, there was a death case on a mountain pasture of a tourist who was walking with a dog – an up-to-date topic. We will have to consider how we will deal with this problem in the future. For this reason too, it must be possible to debate and critically light up the handling of the large-scale game. After consultation with the Carinthian Jägerschaft, I can also report that there was a wolf crack in Carinthia in the Lavant valley. A pony was torn, which is also genetically proven. The damage amounted to EUR 1 250. I also think of a chain of causality: If it goes after the saying: If the wolf comes, the farmer goes!, then that means the end of the management of the pastures, which means that the pastures grow. [[Abg. Loacker: What is this saying? Which country are you from?]] This leads, Mr President, to the fact that we have to accept the loss of leisure areas and that the migration and tourism industry is also declining. That's obvious. And that's exactly where the Federal Government starts in good time, because from the Federal Ministry there are already measures: It supports the establishment of an Austria Centre for Wolf, Luchs and Bear. But above all, a uniform compensation scheme should also be established to help those affected quickly and unbureaucratically. In the SPÖ-regulated Carinthia, however, this is expected to be slightly different. In Carinthia there is a government coalition that simply ignores these fears of farmers and fishermen. I can now give you an example: There is a newly introduced land fund for wild damage, and it clearly shows this scandalous approach. It must be imagined that the additional costs for staff to set up the damage fund are higher than the resources for the damage fund itself. The victims stay on the track, they have to purchase financial disadvantages. The injured must not be degraded to alms! This arrogance has been ruled by the SPÖ in Carinthia for many years, and with this arrogance it has also been ruled by the SPÖ for many years. That's why my appeal is: There needs to be a solution with an eye measure, and we will be committed to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28097	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we have a topic that has been very intensive in recent months, especially in the rural regions of Austria, starting from agriculture, animal protectionists and people outside the regions, in front of us. The topic of Wolf has been addressed several times today. Three petitions have been received and included in the collection report, including one from my home region, the forest district. I can assure you that over the last few months, we have been working very hard on how to estimate the situation. One time in the very important and sensitive discussion – the hearing has also revealed it –: In the last 15 years there has been no documented case in Europe, where a human being has been attacked by a wolf, and so, of course, it should remain. Unfortunately, however, in recent times the fear of people is very often argued to the wolf. I absolutely reject this fear-making because it really does not take us any further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think in order to enable a secure return of the wolf, it needs good wolf management in Austria, because only with good wolf management can a smooth co-existence of Wolf and man be ensured, and that is probably our top premise. Many experiences from abroad confirm these possibilities. That means: What we need is education, preventive work. What we need is funding models for herd protection. What we need is better compensation for damage. And that's where politics is required. What we really don't need, however, is apprehension, which is still being run through the media in recent weeks and months, according to the motto: The wolf, the wild beast. I would now like to appeal to the colleagues of the ÖVP, including my colleague, Diesner-Wais, from the Waldviertel. I should like to quote from the resolution that has been incorporated into the regions of the forest district in which the municipalities are located, that is to say: “The wolf is a predator”, a danger to humans, especially to children, “is it within the framework of leisure activities or on the way to school. ” 30 percent of people trust to stop walking. Or in the present petition, it says: “If children are threatened by the way to school bus in remote rural regions or if children feel threatened by a wolf,” then action must be taken immediately. Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, this fear-making does not help us any more in the topic of Wolf! [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] And so I can say to the conclusion: Yes, we confess to a conflict-free relationship between Wolf and man. Yeah, we're confessing good wolf management, but no, we don't want panic-making in front of the wolf. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28164	Member of the Forgeblechner is hereby reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28186	Mr President. Appreciate listeners! Ladies and gentlemen, you do not seem to have any idea of animal husbandry, you do not seem to have any idea of the fears of the people. I'd advise you once: Go out to the people, talk to the people in the forest district! Then you know what's going on. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We in Austria were wolf-free for 150 years. We must therefore consider the following in this discussion: How many people lived in Austria 150 years ago? How dense is Austria today populated and how close was Austria previously populated? And then we have to ask ourselves: How strong is tourism today and how was it 150 years ago? [[Abg. Wittmann: Don't read so many red caps!]] In 2015, the first wolf was sighted in Allensteig. Within a very short time, the muffled game was eradicated there. It is feared that the highly decimated low-wild population, which has already been affected by other environmental influences, will also be the next victim. The wolf is extremely adaptable in its food choice. He resorts to the lightest prey to be reached and the most effective to hunt. It is therefore logical that the wolf will not stop in front of pasture animals and pets. You can read the press reports of the last few months. After various investigations, Mr Wittmann, wolves eat between 4 and 8 kilos of meat a day. In recent years 130 wolf cracks have been registered on farm animals and pets in Austria. Well, what do we want? On the one hand, we demand year-round pasture farming. The animals are supposed to be on the pasture. On the other hand, we want to protect the wolf, the predator. With an annual increase of a wolf pack of up to 40 percent, you can't see in or away. In order to guarantee ecological sustainability and ensure the safety of farmers for their animals, an inventory management and stock regulation will be essential. We owe it to the animal owners. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Farms and pastures are not only threatened by the wolf, but also by incomprehensible court judgments.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28236	Mrs Gerstner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28258	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no more spectators, but perhaps the spectators in front of the screens. Let us get away from Wolf to another petition that we have also dealt with in the Committee on Petitions. With regard to the petition ‘Residence for refugees admitted to families’, it should first be noted that there are serious differences between refugees and asylum seekers and third-country nationals. For example, refugees are referred to as those people who have been granted the status of the person entitled to asylum. As we all know, asylum seekers are referred to as those people who come to Austria from an unrest area or from a crisis area via one or more safe countries such as Italy or Greece, that is, a safe third country, to our country. These persons have often received a negative asylum notice from the Court of First Instance. It is therefore no longer refugees, but only asylum seekers. It must also be noted that an important element of any asylum procedure is the examination of the protection of the rights of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. In fact, it will be examined whether the reasons put forward by the applicant for asylum actually fulfil the conditions for granting an international protection permit or whether these reasons are indeed credible. The decision on the issue of a residence permit to be taken shall be based on strict objective criteria. You have to hear and weigh all the sides here. No decision is made on about. This petition would remove our asylum and residence law or lead ad absurdum. The FPÖ/ÖVP government ensures that our laws, even our Austrian credulity and kindness can no longer be exploited by all. We must protect our country and our people without forgetting how to help those who really need protection. And this, ladies and gentlemen, can and will guarantee the FPÖ/ÖVP government with certainty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28291	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28312	Mr President. High house! I am referring to the Citizens' Initiative No. 38. It is a matter of ‘inclusion of mobile family work on behalf of authorities’, in concrete terms, of a change in the road traffic regulations. This citizens' initiative calls for the provision of an exception in the road traffic regulations for mobile family work on behalf of authorities. And it is in concrete fact about the fact that they can also remain in the ban and park if there is no suitable parking space in the area of the site. This initiative was supported by over 500 people. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the employees of these services for their work, because they are really services without which our society would no longer be able to do today. I think a thank you here from the House is more than appropriate. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As regards the specific approach to this petition, which we will also take note of today, I would like to promise, as spokesperson of the FPÖ, that I will hold talks with the Federal Minister for Transport and that we will look at the road traffic regulations with a view to whether they can really be improved there and there for this professional group. However, I cannot imagine today – as open as we must be – that all the bans on stops and parking are being opened for these services, because there are also appropriate reasons why these prohibitions have been imposed. Sometimes it's about fire brigades and similar things. But as I said, we're going to look at this more closely. However, in the course of my remarks, I would like to come to another point, which has already been discussed very widely this morning in the current hour. It was also about changes in the road traffic regulations and about the turn-off assistants. The Minister has already presented his package of measures. And I believe that it is very, very important that we as Parliament send out a sufficiently strong signal today and take a decision to support the Federal Minister in all his actions. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, There is a comprehensive package here, and I would really ask you to place a strong sign of the safety of our children at the end of this session day. Political debt allocations already do not reverse events, but political closing can prevent future events. Therefore, support our request! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[21:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28515	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Stäger for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Hafenecker has just tabled a motion for a resolution – a bit late. We discussed this morning very intensively on the issue of road safety, and we would have had time to discuss it intensively, and that would have been good. In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent. That's a proverb. Should I be right? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: We know that you are a little heavy with reading!]] A biterl of pussy is what's inside, of ten points there may be two where we can say we're doing at least the two. [[Abg. New builder: Is that embarrassing! You're so embarrassing, that's crazy! Thank God you're not ministers anymore!]] Mayors and mayors! If infrastructure measures are to be implemented to address danger points and mirrors at dangerous intersections, then the question must be asked: [[Abg. Plessl: Who pays?]] Who pays that? The Federal Minister is responsible for the motorways. It is known that there are no dangerous intersections there, so he is putting the blame on others. Mayor, watch out if you get the money for it! [[Abg. Belakovich: So he's to blame, you want to say with that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] When it comes to the issue of transport security funds, it is possible to do so. Focus on truck safety in the Transport Safety Advisory Board – well, you can do it, but don't say anything about what we're doing. You can also continue to train the truck drivers – that's good, you could do that on your own, you don't need a resolution. But on the point equipment of Asfinag parking spaces with facilities for the correct alignment of truck mirrors and contact with mineral oil companies for the possibility of setting up such places at petrol stations: I must remind the Federal Minister that in every modern truck, the mirrors can now be set electronically. – Don’t be angry with me, but you’re very far back! In reality, this is quite different now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Wöginger.]] Nevertheless, I think it is important that the Minister now reduces himself to the few in the evening – we are much more important. In this sense, we do not want to prevent the few that the Minister does, and we will even agree, but we say quite clearly: We need a lot, much more, and the Minister is invited to do more!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28639	Mr Ottenschlager has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28660	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am now somewhat surprised, Mr Stöger, and thank you for accepting this request, because this will help you today, hopefully, to create more safety in the streets. [[Abg. Lightenness: We are not like you!]] Thank you so much for that. This shows that at the end of the day this House can perhaps come to a constructive conversation, to a constructive end. To that end, I am saving myself the further replica that I would have done otherwise, and I would like to say thank you, especially in the minds of the children, for bringing us a package that brings a little more security to the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28697	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 495 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 5, 7, 11 and 14 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 33, 38, 39, 48, 50 and 51. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to stand up. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, Mr Ottenschlager, Mr Ottenschlager, on the package of measures to improve road safety, especially for particularly vulnerable people. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – That too is unanimous. (E 55) - Thank you. [[22:03:16]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Father's Carenz Act and the Land Labor Act 1984 (576/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28755	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Grünberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! During the day we have heard a lot about the father's care, about the father's month, about the family season bonus and also about the partnership bonus. I think we all believe that each child benefits from it and every child has benefits if both Parents share child rearing and child care in partnership. Some 82 percent of the Austrians are in favour of a partnership division of childcare. Fathers are at least the same as in duty, and they also know more and more how enriching it is to actively experience the child’s growing up. I myself enjoyed it very much as a child and benefited from the fact that my father freed himself as much time as possible from his professional activity. So he deliberately took time and spent these with his two little daughters. Any measure that strengthens parental work in the family and thus also father participation makes sense and should be discussed. The establishment of a father's care or father's breakfast is a good thing to support. However, as so often, it is the details of the design, which is why we are not here at the end of the negotiations. The ministers Bogner-Strauß, Hartinger-Klein and Schramböck have already taken up the subject and will develop a model of father's breakfast. I'm convinced it'll be a good one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28825	Mrs Sandler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28846	Mr President. Dear High House! I am glad to hear from the colleague that there will be a model. We believe that our request is already mature. For us, it is quite important that both parents are present in the first weeks of life as referees. It is important that at this time – especially at the beginning – both parents have the opportunity to feel themselves as an equivalent part of the family. The first experiences of how children behave, how they develop, the statements are a time for both parents, but also for grandparents, which no one should miss, which one should personally experience and which one must experience. It is also a time when the family is reorganising, even if already there are siblings. A month at home allows both parents to be present at this initial time. We are convinced that this exciting phase of mutual learning can be experienced together with the partner or partner and strengthens the sense of shared parenthood. That is why we want to make this time possible for all the fathers, including those in the private sector, and to support it with our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28876	Mrs Schartel has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28898	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the content of this request has already been said very much in the debates on agenda items 9 and 10, also by my previous speakers. It is, of course, very pleasing for us that the positive idea of Mr Vice-Chancellor is taken up in this way and that there is broad agreement. We are already looking forward to the discussion and joint work on the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28930	In the short term is the sausage. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 576/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[22:08:49]] 13. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the labour contract law adaptation law and the land labour law 1984 (577/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28972	We come to Agenda item 13. I call Mr Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e28997	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is then also an important topic on the topic of care care care care, part-time care. For us it is always clear that it is about the compatibility of family and work, and the possibilities for care should also be provided accordingly. We will discuss this in the Committee and deal with it accordingly. Since this is the last item on the agenda and I am the last speaker of us, allow me to say a day's review to quote my colleague Rädler, to the performance of the SPÖ, especially after the remarks on Wolf: After today the red cap will also be very, very difficult to choose again SPÖ. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e29034	Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e29056	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we all want to be healthy for a lifetime, but it is also clear to all of us that this desire unfortunately does not satisfy many people. Whether in old age, after an accident or as an accompaniment with severe illness – each and every one of us can depend on support in an emergency situation. Austria has a good network of hospitals, nursing homes, mobile services and so on, not least as a result of a social democratic health policy. Austria, however, is also a country where care often happens in the family. This commitment, this caretaker deserves recognition and support. We also know that it is women who care for family members in particular. This is often the result of occupational interruptions, which ultimately lead to a lower level of punishment. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problem of poverty and poverty in old age. In addition, a huge burden arises when care, family and work have to be trained side by side. The proposed amendments, ladies and gentlemen, provide for a right to care or care part-time for establishments with at least five employees. In smaller cases, there is the possibility of establishing a legal right through business agreements. The amendments are expected to be made by 1. It will enter into force on 1 July 2019. In the sense of a better compatibility between work and family, this change of law is an important step. Care in the family circle is easier to handle. That is why I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e29101	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I can assign Amendment No 577/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda has ended well after heated debates and individual strikes. [[22:12:43]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-02-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00063_d8e29131	I can still say that applications 612/A(E) to 665/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 10:13 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
