ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1567	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 82. Meeting of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! I can warmly welcome the students of the BGRG Albertgasse. [[General condolences.]] Values Watchers in front of TV screens! Due to the fact that we have received 30 requests for deadlines in writing, the delay has resulted. I can truly thank our administration, which has made it so fast that we can handle it properly. My very special greeting is to be made today – I can still do so before entering the agenda – the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Liliane Maury Pasquier. – Welcome to our centre! [[General condolences.]] But before that, we're going to start working on a few more agendas. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Thomas Drozda, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchsund Herbert Kickl. Whoever is not prevented today is the Member Amon, whom we belong to his 50. I would like to congratulate you on your birthday. – Dear Werner, from this side all the best! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1640	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government residing in another Member State of the European Union has announced the following: The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection Mag. Dr. Brigitte Zarfl is appointed by the Federal Minister of the Federal Chancellery Mag. Ines Stilling. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1670	And now it's coming! I would ask you to pay attention, and I will ask you again if something has been forgotten, whether I have left nothing out of my mind during the lecture exercise. As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1746	Before entering the agenda, I should like to inform the House that Members have requested Wöginger, Hofer, Members of Parliament, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the requests 816/A by Mr Sieber, Mr Mühlberghuber, Mr Colleagues, on the law on young families' funds, 780/A by Mr Sieber, Mr Neubauer, Mr Colleagues, on ‘a federal law amending the Pensions Commission Act’, 695/A by Mr Fürlinger, Mr Stefan, colleagues, on ‘a federal law amending the General Social Security Act’; and 905/A by Mr Wöginger, Mr Neubauer, Mr Colleagues concerning ‘a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act’, A period of one period to one. to be set up on July 2019. I should also like to say that the Members of Parliament have asked for Wöginger, Hofer, colleagues, to the Foreign Policy Committee to report on the government documents. 564 of the supplements: Protocol of 2014 to the Convention on Forced Labour, 1930; Recommendation (No. 203) concerning complementary measures to effectively eliminate forced labour, 386 of the supplements: Agreements with Ukraine's Department of Ministers on cooperation in the fields of education, science and culture; and 510 of the supplements: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the proposal from the Commission to the opposition to the accession of the Republic of the Philippines to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification, A period of one to two years shall be laid down in each case. to be set up on July 2019. I should also like to say that Mrs Griss has requested that the Committee on Justice report on the request 798/A of Mrs Griss, colleagues and colleagues concerning IPR legislation be limited to a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. I should like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested the Justice Committee to report to the Government Paper 623 of the Supplements to Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer. concerning a federal law amending liability law, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mr Rossmann has requested that the Budget Committee report on the motion for a resolution 856/A by Mrs Rossmann, colleagues on the Federal Budget Act also have a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mrs Zadić has requested that the Committee on Justice report on Mr Jarolim, Mr Scherak, Mr Zadić, Mr Zadić, Mr Jarolim, Mr Zadić, and Mr Zadić's motion for a resolution on criminal proceedings also have a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. I should also like to say that Mr Zinggl has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the request 306/A from Mr Zinggl, colleagues, on a deadline of up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Mr Rossmann has also requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Rossmann's motion for a resolution (678/A) also be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. In addition, MEPs ask Wöginger and Hofer, the Justice Committee for Reporting on the application 910/A by Mr Steinacker, Mr Jarolim and Mr Stefan on the Amendment of Share Rights Act 2019, for a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. There is a request from Mr Wittmann, colleagues, to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Mrs Wittmann's motion 889/A, for a period of time up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. In addition, Mr Zinggl has tabled a request to the Constitutional Committee to report on the request 306/A of Mr Zinggl, colleagues and colleagues for a period of time up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. [[see S. xxx]] I should also like to say that Mrs Bißmann has requested that the Financial Committee report on Mr Bißmann's request 444/A(E) for eco-social tax reform be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Mr Androsch has also requested that the Health Committee report on the request 860/A by Mr Androsch, colleagues in the field of animal transport law be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have also requested that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs report on Amendment 324/A by Mr Stöger, Mr Members, and Mr De Clercq, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. to be set up on July 2019. In addition, Members of Parliament asked Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Health Committee on Amendment No 558/A(E) to Members Lindner, Members of Parliament, a period of time to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have also requested that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs report on amendment 123/A(E) by Mr Keck, Mr colleagues, on a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Mr Muchitsch has also requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on amendment 124/A(E) by Mr Keck, colleagues and colleagues also have a period of time up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Members of this House have asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Amendment No 211/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to point out that Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Feichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Feichtinger, Mr Feichtinger, Mr Feichtinger, Mr Fichtinger, Mr Feichtinger, Mr Feichtinger, the Environment Committee, have requested a deadline until 1 January 2002 to be set up on July 2019. I should also like to say that the Members of this House have asked Mr Rendi-Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Constitutional Committee on the application 888/A of Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, a deadline of up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. I should also like to say that the MEPs asked Wöginger and Hofer to report to the Committee on Buildings and Housing on the motion for a resolution 907/A by Mr Singer and Mr Schrangl on the law on housing benefit for a period of up to 2 years. to be set up on July 2019. I should like to say that Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on Amendment No 865/A by Mr Muchich, Mr M. Muchich, Mr. to be set up on July 2019. Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer have also requested that the Committee on Education report on amendment 872/A by Mr Taschner, Mr Mölzer, Mr President of the Commission, be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer have also requested that the Committee on Education report on the motion for a resolution 871/A by Mr Taschner, Mr Mölzer, Mr President of the Commission, be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. In the same way, MEPs asked Wöginger and Hofer to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 887/A by Mr Köstinger, Mr Hofer, Mr President of the Commission. to be set up on July 2019. Hasn't a request been read? Is something else going off with this abundance? – If this is not the case, I should like to thank you very much for the very intensive input and for being able to deal with it properly. I can announce that the meeting of ORF 2 will be held as usual until 1 p.m. ORF III will send this meeting by 7.15 p.m. and then the meeting will be broadcast online in the TV library. A photographer will also be present in the hall. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1891	In order to be able to negotiate items 3 and 4 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 3 and 4 are the two reports of the Immunities Committee on the requests from the Central Public Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution of Economic criminal proceedings and corruption for approval of the official prosecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschank (634 of the supplements and 635 of the supplements). I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you very much. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1927	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure a day block time of 4 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed. The speaking times are as follows: ÖVP 74, SPÖ and FPÖ each 66, NEOS and NOW each 22 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 11 minutes, the respective debate time 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is also unanimous. Thank you. After consulting the President-in-Office of the Council in accordance with Article 19a of the Rules of Procedure for Agenda item 1, I also define the following duration and form of debate: A round of speakers at 5 minutes each. President Pasquier briefly refers to the speech messages. A second round of clubs is then set at 5 minutes each to the President's replica. We are now going into the agenda. [[09:28:53]] 1. Point Declaration by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Liliane Maury Pasquier, pursuant to § 19a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the '70 years Council of Europe'
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e1986	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Once again, Madam President Pasquier, I should like to welcome you to our Parliament at a very special time. We had the opportunity to get to know each other yesterday, and the President - I can also say this here - has expressed great praise through the Austrian delegation of our parliamentarians to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I should like to add that there will be a very intense session there during the next week, with very decisive votes, especially on the General Secretariat, so that I assume that we will be fully represented – and if anyone is prevented from being present. In this sense, I am pleased that we can also pass this praise on to the members of the Austrian delegation in this form. I should now like to ask you, Madam President Pasquier, to make your statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2010	Mr President of the National Council! Mr Bun- Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honour to speak today at the solemn meeting of the Austrian National Council dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe. I thank the President of the National Council, Mr Wolfgang Sobotka, for his kind invitation, the warm welcome and the hospitality. I would like to give you some observations on three issues: firstly, on Austria's cooperation with the Council of Europe, secondly on the political issues which the Council of Europe currently has to deal with, and thirdly on a fundamental aspect of human rights, namely equality between women and men. On Austria and the Council of Europe: ==References====External links== Become a member of our organization, Austria has proved to be a stable and committed partner of the Council of Europe and a decisive defender of the democratic values of this continent. The fact that the National Council has decided to honour the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe with this very solemn ceremony is already evidence of the importance your country attaches to our organisation, our values and our system of agreements. Over the years, Austria has become a committed defender of the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable. This feature also highlights the priorities chosen for your Presidency in the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee between November 2013 and May 2014, namely the fight against trafficking in human beings, the protection of women from violence and the inclusion of people with disabilities. Their efforts in these and other areas were recognised and highly appreciated by all members of the organisation. Thanks to your support and your active Our organisation has been able to successfully enforce the key instruments in Europe and beyond, in particular the Convention on the control of trafficking in human beings and the Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention. Two more extremely concrete contributions to the work of the organisation come to my mind: the European Foreign Language Centre of the Council of Europe, which is based in Graz and celebrates its 25th anniversary this year – it is a meeting place for teachers, trainers and experts working in the field of education – and the European Mozart Paths, the cultural route of the Council of Europe, which preserves the cultural heritage of this famous personality and further strengthens intercultural dialogue. These Council of Europe initiatives would not exist without your contribution and support. Thank you very much! However, when I think of Austria's most important contribution to the work of the Council of Europe, I would say that Austria has always been a stabilising factor in Europe through the best of its geographical situation and cultural identity, has always been committed to a larger Europe and has built bridges over the years and strengthened cooperation between our Member States. This vision of a larger Europe based on dialogue and cooperation was perfectly described by the former Chancellor of Austria, Mr Josef Klaus, in his speech to our parliamentary assembly in January 1965. I quote: ‘Europe does not end at the eastern borders of my country. The city of Vienna should not be considered as the end stop of the West [...]. The future house of Europe would by us Austrians as an under construction and incomplete The structure consists of a middle front and a west wing, while the east wing is not yet finished. [...] For me, it seems reasonable to consider seriously inviting the states of Eastern Europe and raising their interest in European cooperation in all those areas where a new climate for cooperation between the West and the East could be created, regardless of political reservations and differences." 54 years after this speech, I think it is legitimate to say that the Austrians, as well as all Europeans, should be proud of the work done with a view to building the common European house and bringing together 47 Member States on the basis of legally binding standards and common values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking about the role of your country in the Council of Europe, I cannot fail to mention the important contribution made by highly esteemed representatives of Austria who have constantly expanded the organization within our organisation to make it what it is today. In fact, Austria was very well represented at the Council of Europe at different levels. Three Secretary-Generals from Austria led our organization: Mr. Lujo Toncić-Sorinj, Mr. Franz Karasek and more recently – from 1999 to 2004 – Mr. Walter Schwimmer. It seems that three are a recurring number, since over the years of the Congress of the Municipalities and Regions of Europe had three Austrian chairmen: Mr Alois Lugger, Mr Herwig van Staa and Mrs Gudrun Mosler-Törnström. Mr Franz Vrannitzky, former Chancellor of Austria, the chairman of the first summit of the Heads of State and Government of the Council of Europe in Vienna on 8 and 9. ==References====External links== Furthermore, there was Her current Federal President, Alexander Van der Bellen, will be a member of our assembly from 2009 to 2012. As President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, allow me to expressly appreciate the work of my predecessors. Mr Karl Czernetz, President of the Assembly from 1975 to 1978, and Mr Peter Schieder, President of the Council of Europe from 2002 to 2005, two passionate supporters of the European project were tirelessly committed to expanding the parliamentary dimension of the work of the Council of Europe and to anchoring it as a moral compass of Europe. [[In the case of SPÖ, members of ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and JETZT, as well as members of ÖVP, FPÖ, NEOS and JETZT. Donmez.]] Karl Czernett was an tireless defender of a “strong dialogue and strong cooperation in Europe”, an attitude that enables us to “in To unite times of growing challenges and divisions” – if I may borrow his own words, which he used in a speech on the European Day in 1977. During his presidency, in 1976, Portugal and a year later Spain became members of the Council of Europe – another stone of the wall, which was inserted, as he said, “to bring about a European agreement [...] and to promote peace in a free world”. Peter Schieder led a completely different Parliamentary Assembly. The idea of a Europe, as he called it, came a step closer to reality during his presidency when Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and finally Monaco joined our family. We are going to give him the energy he needs in the renewal of the Our Assembly's work, not least by expanding its cooperation with other international bodies, especially the European Parliament, has always been very grateful. He was also a pioneer in promoting equality between women and men in our congregation. The decision of the Assembly that all delegations must be composed of women and men without exception is due to its commitment. I am therefore proud and feel privileged to be the successor of these great personalities before you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the second subject of my speech, the political issues that the Council of Europe must deal with. As we all know, Europe is currently experiencing particularly difficult times. The aggressive attacks on freedom of expression and press as well as on freedom of assembly in several states of our continent, anti-democratic abuse, the threat of the rule of law or the questioning of the authority of the Strasbourg Court of Justice weaken the system of values and standards based on the European Convention on Human Rights. Even though I recognize the many challenges we face, I do not want to sink into pessimism. Let me remind you that even in the most difficult times – after a devastating war, the millions of dead and the most terrible and unimaginable human rights violations – the European peoples have found the strength and courage to follow the path of peace and reconciliation, guided by the fundamental values that form the foundation of our common historical, cultural and intellectual heritage! It is this commitment to peace and a deep-rooted commitment to the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law that led to the establishment of the Council of Europe, an international organisation that aims to achieve – I quote – a stronger unity of its members for the purpose of securing and implementing the ideals and principles that are their common heritage, and to bring about their economic and social progress." This year we're going to do the 70. The anniversary of our close commitment to the European peoples and nations. It is therefore our historic and political duty to preserve what we also call the common European House, the House of Human Rights, Democracy and the Rule of Law, in which the fundamental rights of 830 million citizens are guaranteed and protected through a common and uniform legal framework and whose respect is guaranteed by the Strasbourg Court of Justice. Unfortunately, our close ties are threatened by the emergence of political divisions, by old and new conflicts and by lack of solidarity in the face of global challenges that exceed the geographical dimension of our continent. However, I am convinced that we have grown up in these challenges because what unites us is far stronger than the divisions we are currently experiencing. Just like 70 years ago, we must consider the basic values that form the heart of the European project: Peace, human dignity and fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. In view of the difficulties, we need to strengthen dialogue and expand cooperation in order to achieve the objective of maintaining and developing close ties on our continent. We must all stand together to preserve our rights, our freedoms and our Europe. Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude my speech on a subject that is very important to me, the equality between women and men. This is a priority of my political activity and, so to speak, the guide of my actions as a politician and a citizen. On the way to legal equality, of course, we must deal with the many obstacles of legal, economic and social nature, but also with the more subtle obstacles that are often founded in deeply rooted stereotypes and clichés on the role of man and woman in society. These are the obstacles that are often the most difficult to overcome, because they are sometimes passed on or even strengthened by us through our own behavior, without us becoming aware of this. Equality between women and men is a fundamental element of all genuinely representative and therefore complete democracy. [[In the case of ÖVP, SPÖ, NEOS and JETZT, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Bißmann.]] Therefore, the Interparliamentary Union speaks of an “uncompleted democracy” when it mentions the underrepresentation of women in politics. Violence against women is a direct consequence of the situation of inequality and gender stereotypes and discrimination based on them. Today I would like to point out a concrete example of the situation in our national parliaments. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Interparliamentary Union recently conducted a study on sexism, harassment and violence in relation to women in the parliaments in Europe based on extensive voluntary interviews with 123 women from 45 European countries. Of these, 81 were parliamentarians and 42 were parliamentarians. The results of this study are overwhelming: 85.2 percent of parliamentarians participating in the study explained that they had experienced mental violence – sexual comments, intimidation and threats, publication of photographs with deplorable or sexual connotation – during their term of office. 67.9% of parliamentarians were target of comments based on their physical appearance or on gender stereotypes. 24.7% of parliamentarians – every fourth parliamentarian – and 40.5% of parliamentarians – almost every other – have experienced sexual harassment, but only 23.5% of parliamentarians and 6 percent of parliamentarians have reported sexual harassment. These figures are simply unacceptable. What should we do to reverse this trend and achieve greater equality? – As a parliamentarian and politician, I see two ways we should take: On the one hand, we must take legal action by adopting a clear legal framework for the prohibition of discrimination and sanctions against abuse, but on the other hand we must also take positive measures to strengthen equality, particularly in the area of education and education. The Council of Europe is one of the pioneers in this field. Our Istanbul Convention is the most advanced international instrument for preventing and combating violence against women. [[General condolences.]] Austria was among the first to sign the Istanbul Convention in May 2011. Austria has ratified this 2013 convention, and it entered into force in 2014. The experience gained in Austria has contributed fundamentally to the dissemination of the Istanbul Convention both in Europe and beyond. At this point, I would like to acknowledge the tireless commitment of the Austrian parliamentarians to the work of the parliamentary network of the Women Free from Violence Assembly and the final conference on the parliamentary dimension of the Council of Europe in the fight against violence against women, including domestic violence, jointly by the Austrian Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly on 30 October. ==References====External links== Secondly, we need to make it clear. Legal changes are not always sufficient. We must change the settings by taking measures, removing taboos and refusing to keep silent. For this reason, we have launched the hashtag initiative #NotInMyParliament in the assembly to challenge and combat sexism, harassment and violence against women in parliaments. The aim of this initiative is to unite all and to say no to any form of intimidation, sexist behaviour, harassment and gender-specific violence, to break the wall of silence and indifference and to promote equality through education. ==References====External links== November 2018 in Helsinki, and since then we have held several educational events, for example during the plenary session of the meeting in January 2019, in national parliaments and during the meetings of our institutions. I hope that the Austrian Parliament will also join this movement. I count on your support and active participation. Of course, a parliament is only a microcosm of our society. That is why this initiative should not be confined to Parliament. If we as parliamentarians commit ourselves to ending this unacceptable behaviour, this is mainly due to the fact that it is our responsibility to act and react at our workplace. It is my hope, however, that this initiative will expand to other areas. For example, we can introduce the hashtags #NotInMyCity, #NotInMyUniversity or even #NotInMyOffice, in English, as well as in German: #NotInMy University, #NotInMy City and so on. Since our organisation celebrates its 70th anniversary, I think it would be a very strong signal if all Member States and all national parliaments made equality the core of their national agenda and a key issue of public debate in order to promote a global movement that is spreading in our societies. Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to thank you once again for the warm welcome in Austria and for the opportunity to speak to you today. Austria is an important player in the Council of Europe. Our cooperation is excellent, and I welcome the opportunity to continue working with you in the Council of Europe Parliament. Thank you for your attention and I would like to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2196	Madam President. Thank you very much for your extensive remarks. It is a great concern for us not only to have made a contribution in the past on the occasion of 70 years of the Council of Europe, but also to bring it in as we did in the future. They have mentioned the rich past, and therefore I should like to welcome the last Secretary-General from Austria, Walter Schwimmer, to Parliament quite cordially. [[General condolences.]] [[Secretary General of the Council of Europe a.D. Swimmer rises from his place on the gallery and bows down.]] We are now coming to the first round of speakers. The first is Mr Amon, who has a special role in the Parliamentary Assembly. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2235	Mr President of the National Council! Madam President, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As head of the Austrian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, Madam President, I am very pleased to welcome you in our midst. “I now want to sum up the tasks ahead of you. Our constant goal must be to build and strengthen the United Nations. Under and within this global concept, we must regroup the European people's family into a regional organization that might perhaps be called the United States of Europe. The first practical step will be the creation of a Council of Europe." ==References====External links== In September 1946, in his relatively famous speech to the academic youth, as he called it at the time. Today the Council of Europe celebrates its 70th anniversary. It was founded to promote Europe's economic and social progress. He said, if you want to, that the weighing of European integration, and it was probably no coincidence that the Economic Committee of the Council of Europe already had a request to set up a European Coal and Steel Community, the later ECSC, the Montan Union, so that the joint management of those products used for the war would be carried out. The historians are not entirely in agreement, but former Secretary General Walter Schwimmer recently told this at an event here in the house that it was the British, because of which it was not because this ECSC was founded within the framework of the Council of Europe, but outside. History is Legion, from which the European Community and the European Union developed. Today 47 states are members of the Council of Europe, only Kosovo, Belarus and the Vatican are not members of the Council of Europe. In the Council of Europe, not only are the governments represented, but also the parliaments, and I believe that the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly are something like a European UN. Convention law is also unique, is a unique legal institution which, I believe, has not yet found a similar imitation in the world. We have 220 conventions. The most important of these conventions is undoubtedly the European Convention on Human Rights – in addition to many other topics such as anti-discrimination, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, children's rights, culture, health, genetic engineering and democracy. The system for monitoring the euro The European Court of Human Rights is already something very special. So it is a success of the Council of Europe that the abolition of the death penalty has been achieved in virtually all of Europe. It was not until April 1983 that the Protocol to the ECHR was introduced as a condition for membership, and this has been the case in all the Member States of the Council of Europe since 1997. The President of the European Court of Human Rights, Guido Raimondi, recently spoke at a Bureau meeting of the Council of Europe about the fact that at least 95 percent of all decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are implemented in the Member States and therefore the whole population of these Member States is given access to it, which is incredibly important. We should also consider this when we have to decide next week within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly on the issue of Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the end of this short speech, to take the opportunity to say thanks soon after 25 years of belonging to the house. I gave my first speech to the House to ratify the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. That is why it is a good thing to be able to speak to you today on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe. I already came to the ÖVP club in 1993, then as a federal chairman of the Young People's Party, and in 1994 I became a Member, then the youngest. So, if you allow, I would like to thank a few people soon after two and a half decades. I thank Erhard Busek for bringing me to the National Council at the time. Already a year later – legislative periods are sometimes somewhat shorter than provided by the Constitution – it was then Wolfgang Schüssel, who brought me back to the National Council. I thank my country leaders Krainer, Klasnic and Schützhofer for giving me confidence for two and a half decades. I would like to point out that it was only in 2017 that I succeeded in winning a fundamental mandate. We were sometimes less, at the moment we are a little more, and we hope we can continue. I would like to thank all of Parliament's staff, in fact, from the directors to home technology. I've always felt excellently cared for in this house. I thank all the staff in the club. I thank my parliamentary staff who have accompanied me all these years. And last, but not least I thank my family, my parents who died too early, my wife, my children, that they have gone this way up here with me. It lives our homeland, the Republic of Austria, in a united, peaceful Europe! A steiric luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2305	The second President, Doris Bures, is also involved in the Council of Europe representing our Austrian concerns. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2329	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Liliane Maury Pasquier! It lies essentially in Austrian parliamentarism, from the beginnings to the present, above the To look at the edge of the plate. ==References== In the 20th century, still in the monarchy, the parliament offered square at the 516 MPs – delegates from the Bukovina to Dalmatia. In the Second Republic, Austria was a very important and recognized bridge builder – the President pointed out – between East and West, but also between South and North, because we Austrians know all too well from our own history, where nationalist self-seeking and de-olidarization, upgrading and war lead. When it came to seeking, finding and conducting international dialogue, the Austrian Parliament has always played a very important role. Many of us MEPs do a wide range of international work and maintain international relations, whether in the many well-functioning bilateral groups, be it within the framework of the OSCE or the IPU or, like Werner Amon and I, also as members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Madam President, I am delighted that you, as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and thus also as a representative of one of the most important multilateral organisations in Europe, have made a statement here today, and it is also a special pleasure to me that you have given great attention to the issue of equality between men and women, that you are dealing in the Council of Europe with the role of women in our parliaments and that you are always energetically opposed to domestic violence on women. [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and JETZT, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned: 70 years ago, a new foundation was laid on the ruins of a continent completely destroyed by two world wars, and the foundation stone for this foundation was human dignity. This human dignity has been trodden with feet a few years before in the times of the two fascisms. With the creation of the European Convention on Human Rights, fundamental values and fundamental rights of every person have been established, and the right to these rights can also be enforced in court before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Human rights are not just on paper in Europe. For all 8.9 million Austrians and all around 830 million people in 47 countries, the living right is. Therefore, it does not matter whether a State is a member of the Council of Europe or not, because only in the Council of Europe do the citizens of a country have the opportunity to enforce their human rights. That's why it makes a difference. It makes a difference to the Russian journalist who fights for freedom of the press in his country, it makes a difference to the Azerbaijani human rights activist who advocates liberal democracy and fair elections, and it makes a difference for the Turkish opposition politician, who was unjustly detained, even because he has committed himself to minority rights of the Kurds. [[In the case of SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and JETZT, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Donmez.]] It also makes a difference, as recently, for the Romni, who was brought to Italy for their right of freedom and should be driven out. It therefore makes a difference on human rights issues whether the last instance is a national court or the European Court of Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that there were great visionaries who founded the Council of Europe 70 years ago, and their vision – the President of the Council has said – was that Europe is a continent of democracy, of law and law. It will be a state of affairs, of freedom and of human rights. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, today it is up to us and today we all share the responsibility that this vision will become a lot more reality every day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2399	The European Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is also represented by Roman Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2420	Mr President. Madam President, Mr Pasquier! High house! The fact that the Council of Europe was founded 70 years ago after the incredible horrors and horrors of World War II was courageous and directional. Cooperation based on democracy and human rights instead of confrontation should determine the future of Europe. Therefore, it was only logical that Austria joined the Council of Europe in 1956 after regaining sovereignty. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law were and are the three pillars of the work of the Council of Europe, and it can also look back on a worthy history. The merits of the Council of Europe are also undisputed with regard to the overcoming of the socialist dictatorships of Eastern Europe. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Zadić.]] Of course, the human rights convention, the Commissioner for Human Rights or the European Court of Human Rights can also be forgotten. However, the times have changed, it is important to look at the present, and if you look at the Council of Europe now, you can see that little has been left of the glamour of past decades; this is also to be said critically. Human rights groups such as Human Rights Watch, for example, believe that the Council of Europe is afraid to call violations of human rights by name in the Member States, and that electoral counterfeits in the Member States are not revealed in the same way as the OSCE does. How deep the Council of Europe is in the crisis, Secretary-General Jagland has been proving since 2010 every year, when he has to write in his project report again and again that the Council of Europe is to be more committed to human rights, democracy and the rule of law – obviously a difficult undertaking if it is to be re-written every year. On the one hand, sanctions against Russia are justified by the Council of Europe, and Russia has agreed on the exercise of member rights, but on the other hand this Secretary-General Jagland also showed understanding of the Turkish authorities' brutal action after the alleged coup a few years ago, when he even publicly announced: Yeah, there's a need to clean up. – So if high-ranking representatives, top officials of the Council of Europe, so blatantly measured by two measures, this obviously undermines the position of the Council of Europe as an impartial mediator quite significantly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also not surprising if the Council of Europe takes up, in a resolution, even the concept of Islamophobia, which in the 1970s was influenced by the Islamic revolutionaries in Iran in order to condemn the Laizist policy of the Shah. So if you act with such a term, you will be quite conscious of the side of Islamic fanatics, and it is quite an irony. The story is that especially the once religiously critical socialists act there as climbers of such reactionary religious political currents, as long as they are only not Christian. This is part of the Council of Europe's morals: Islamists are being courted, their diction and thus their demands are taken uncritically, and while the Council of Europe is pressing its eyes against the Islamists, it is precisely the stable states of the rule of law that constantly attract the anger and criticism of the Council of Europe. For example, Germany has once been criticized because it informs illegal migrants too soon when the deportation threatens. Madam President, illegal migrants who are to be postponed have the tendency to subside. That is why we do not need to criticize it if we are to inform them only in the short term. This is also seen in the way in which the Council of Europe has become non-reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, we are trying to prevent deportations from Europe, on the other hand, there are members of the Parliamentary Assembly who have also been active in quite a different way: For one or another report which is well-informed, it is very welcome to hold its hands. For example, members of the Parliamentary Assembly, representatives from various countries, were bribed by Azerbaijan to give favourable reviews on the human rights situation in that country. Even your own predecessor, President Agramunt, had to resign because of this corruption scandal. It is therefore a disastrous moral image which the Council of Europe and, above all, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe give, and it is really sad to see what has become of the Council of Europe. That is why it is urgent to put the Council of Europe back on a solid foundation, because otherwise the citizens will ask themselves why they should continue to finance this body with their taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2499	Mr Scherak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2521	Mr President. Madam President of the Parliamentary Assembly! First of all, thank you very much for your very clear words on the one hand in the context of equality between men and women and your clear call for action against violence against women, wherever and no matter where, and on the other hand, your clear call for the necessary end of discrimination. I am very pleased that I can only speak here today as a former member of the Parliamentary Assembly, but at the same time as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights of this House. We've already heard: The greatest achievement of the Council of Europe is and remains the signature, the achievement of the Convention on Human Rights, this human rights document, which, according to the inconspicuous atrocities of the Second World War, has resulted in a unique act of reconciliation, that we have agreed on fundamental common rights and freedoms. It is all the more important that we stress this again and again 70 years after the founding of the Council of Europe. We know that, with the Council of Europe, we have created the most important institution for the defence of human rights in Europe and that, in particular, with the The European Court of Human Rights has something quite unique, namely that 830 million people living within the Council of Europe have the opportunity, at last, to always turn to an overarching international court to challenge their fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the M.A. Zadić.]] It is just 70 years after the European Council was founded that it is so important to highlight its importance, because it is obvious in many areas that these rights are indeed perceived, but do not know exactly what they mean, and because we have unfortunately come to know God, how simple it is that these rights are being questioned. It does not matter whether they are political parties within Europe who challenge our fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms, or whether they are fundamental groups, fundamental currents in connection with religions: There are always enemies and opponents of our fundamental and freedom rights who attack them. That is why it is precisely the Council of Europe that it is the European Convention on Human Rights, which represents a clear commitment to liberal democracy, a defensive democracy, which clearly states: No matter where the enemies, the opponents of our liberal democracy come from, we must resist them. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the M.A. Zadić.]] That is why, with all legitimate criticism in connection with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – and there are problems again and again – it is annoying, Mr Haider, when you come here and say that people have to be made clear what this Council of Europe is doing. The Council of Europe is the guarantee that our fundamental fundamental rights and rights of freedom are protected from all their opponents, and it should be up to all of us to make this clear accordingly and to tell the people clearly who is protecting fundamental and freedom rights. This is so important, therefore, because in many areas – Madam President, you have mentioned dealing with freedom of the media and the press – how fast it can be; how fast it can be in Austria that the debate on freedom of the press will be different, how fast it can be if we look just a few hundred kilometers further in our neighbouring countries, that freedom of the press will be trampled on the speed of the question of the rule of law in Member States of the European Union. Madam President, you have referred to the role of Austria and have quoted the former Chancellor Klaus in relation to the question of how, as it were, to continue with a joint structure. That is why this idea of fundamental fundamental rights and freedoms is also so important for us as Austria, for us as the European Union not only within the European Union, but also for possible new members. We note that, not only within the European Union, we have problems with fundamental and freedom rights in Member States, but also that countries that want to become members of the European Union have some shortcomings. It is therefore so important because we know that the Council of Europe has done this inconceivable preparatory work that we in the European Union have agreed on common principles such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. These principles are the foundation of liberal and defensive democracy. When we see how this is being discussed over and over again, how followers The so-called illiberal democracy – which in fact is not possible, because a democracy per se is liberal and the illiberal democracy cannot exist at all – comes to question these fundamental fundamental and freedom rights, which we have driven into the first decades for which many people had to die, then I am more than ever glad that after 70 years of European Council of Europe we can enjoy its success history, the success story of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights. I look forward to the next 70 years and many of them, because the ultimate guarantee that we can live in Europe as we live is next to the European Union of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2606	Mrs Zadić is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2624	Mr President. President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! High house! We are celebrating today the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe. ==References====External links== May 1949, in response to the Holocaust and to the inconceivable atrocities of the Second World War, was founded with the primary aim of giving freedom and security to people in Europe. The horrors of the Second World War have given people in this common goal. They all knew that there can be freedom and security only if we all understand rights and agree on rights applicable to all those who apply independently of state borders that apply supranationally. The rule of Nazi terror has demonstrated to us how a state and its actors can massively persecute, expel, abuse and murder their own citizens. This time of tyranny has shown that it is not enough to place on the state alone as a protector, but that it needs laws and generally applicable rights that prevent states and their actors from becoming the greatest danger to their own citizens. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, 70 years ago the Council of Europe was created with a view to reaching common European values: human rights, the rule of law and pluralist democracy. These values are three milestones of European history that have brought us all a life in peace and security. However, these three milestones, ladies and gentlemen, are often questioned by certain groups. I also remember the former Minister of the Interior, who has literally said that the human rights convention must be used. In his view, this human rights convention and its rights are any – and I quote – “rare legal constructions”, which have been “partly many, many years old, out of completely different situations” and which prevent us from “doing what is necessary”. - Quote. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, peace, prosperity, security, democracy and the rule of law as well as the protection of human dignity are not unnecessary, strange, obsolete constructions, but achievements that we must hold high and that we must be proud of! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The protection of human rights, the rule of law and democracy forms the basis for European cooperation and for a peaceful co-existence. Today, the Council of Europe, with its own Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, is a guarantee of peaceful cooperation. The comprehensive work of the Council of Europe shows that human rights are not the rights of a few, but the rights of all of us. Human rights, ladies and gentlemen, do not have a party book. They do not distinguish by ethnic origin, religious belief, or sexual orientation, nor do they concern how much money you or woman has on the account. What matters is that we are all people equipped with equal dignity and rights. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is what we need to remind parliamentarians on a regular basis. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Council of Europe is diverse, and the 200 agreements that have been established over the last 70 years also bear witness. The palette ranges from the abolition of the death penalty and torture to the cooperation of justice and police to the protection of regional languages and many measures against sexual and domestic violence. These are rights that protect not only minorities but all of us and that apply to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be time to deepen this cooperation and human rights, and I therefore also advocate that we join the Austrian Development Bank of the Council of Europe because the aim is to promote not only freedom from the state but also social integration. Let us keep human rights high because they protect us all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2688	Thank you for the first round of speakers. Madam President, I can invite you to comment and reply. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2709	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I now allow myself to speak to you in French, and thank you for your understanding. First of all, I would like to say a few words about criticism expressed, on the one hand at the Council of Europe and, on the other hand, at the Parliamentary Assembly. It was said that we measure with two different dimensions, with two different standards. I hear this criticism, but first of all I would like to say something you all know: No organization, no human construction is ever perfect, and the Council of Europe does not claim to be it. However, the Council of Europe is based, above all, on the dialogue, the exchange, the meeting of various authorities, peoples and nations, based on the principle that it is better to discuss and exchange, even and above all, if you do not agree with something. This is better than excluding, judging and eliciting people or countries that do not agree with. By this exchange you can build up instead of destroy. It is about defending common values for all the peoples and countries of our continent. This is based on the dialogue, on the attempt to find opportunities for dialogue and a maximum of countries – if possible all European countries – to participate in our joint construction so that we can all make progress together. If you hear that this country or that country does not comply with the law in certain areas, it is important to uphold our values. It is important to monitor what is taking place in this country, to identify progress, to determine where this right is not respected. But it should always be kept in mind that dialogue is better than exclusion and that the participation of these countries protects the peoples and the democracies of these countries. This helps us – all Europeans – to live on a continent where we often do not suffer from conflicts, even if, of course, everything cannot always be perfect. Another problem was also raised, a problem that really confused the organization, namely corruption. I am proud to say that the Parliamentary Assembly has made good use of this problem and has taken the right measures to combat this curse. First of all, this work was done among its own members, and this led to the exclusion of a colleague; one of my predecessors was also affected. It was not just a question of putting the past right, it was also about the future, and for the future we have set up a system in which the interests of the respective parliamentarians need to be revealed. This has created much more transparency regarding incomes, as regards the gifts that Parliamentarians might get, and this will allow us to follow much more closely what is taking place in the prevention of corruption. Of course, the Council of Europe is a modest institution. It does not cost much money, neither Austria nor the other Member States. If you want to compare it with the European Union – even if comparisons always lie down – then we are much cheaper. We have modest resources, and we are trying to use them as effectively as possible. We also need civil society and the media to review, for example, this disclosure of the interests of the Members of the Parliamentary Assembly. We do not always have the possibilities for such reviews in our modest organisation, so we are building on the media and on civil society in the Member States to fight corruption together. As Mrs Bures said, the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe make a difference. They make a difference in the exercise of freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and the defence of fundamental rights. It is very often based on examples of countries where democracy may not be as developed as in your own country or in my own country, but I would like to emphasize what a chance the Council of Europe has for the people of its own country. We do not necessarily have to look at Turkey, Azerbaijan or Russia, because we too are lucky to be part of the Council of Europe, and our citizens are lucky that our countries are members and that their rights are therefore also defended by the European Court of Human Rights. This membership means a difference in the country itself for our fellow citizens. For example, my country has a housewife who has become invalid and her rights have been fully recognised thanks to a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. There was also the case of a worker who had been exposed to asbestos, and also his occupational disease became recognised by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. That is, this Court of Justice is not an abstract. The Council of Europe is also not an abstract one, where you can make beautiful speeches in the beautiful city of Strasbourg. There is an added value, it is a fundamental gain for our fellow citizens. We must recognise that the Convention on Human Rights, but also the European Social Charter, is the roots that enable us to grow together as a European continent, with common values, with values that protect all the people who live on this European continent, whether it suits us or not: Migrants, minorities, but also people with children whose families have been Austrian or Swiss for generations. We are working to protect national minorities and national languages. We are working against the abuse and violence of children and against violence against women. We fight disdainful treatment, we fight against the abuse of personal data and cybercrime. We are also working on aggressiveness in sport and on European education based on democratic principles. Today, of course, we are dealing with new challenges. We are dealing with modern slavery, increasing inequalities in many societies, and it is also about protecting against environmental problems and fighting for a healthy environment. We must build a continent on which everyone talks, even though we have different opinions about what to do and what is not to be done, about what does not meet the criteria of the rule of law, because the protection of the 830 million Europeans requires that we all stay together in this House Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2794	Thank you very much for your comments and answers, especially for the appeal, to present the Joint Before the Divorce. Before I call the next speaker, I can warmly welcome the ÖVP women from Lannach. [[General condolences.]] As a statement, we have as our guest the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe here, who has now spoken French. [[direction Visitor Gallery]] The next item is the speech by Mr Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2834	Mr President. Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When one sees the terrible civil war images from Syria, from the permanent terrorist attacks in Iraq, the attacks in some African states against children, against women, against people who have a different faith, questions arise: What does human dignity mean? What about the rights of the human individual? What is a human life worth? One realizes that in these regions a human life is obviously not worth much, one realizes that these rights are unfortunately not guaranteed at all in the rest of the world, but are also often in danger in Europe. It is in the light of it. Positively, the anniversary of 70 years of the Council of Europe is celebrated here, not only looking back, but also looking forward. I find that, four years after the Second World War – after the devastating effects, after a step with the feet of human rights, human dignity, the contempt of the human individual – a union was organized with the aim of burying old hostilities, preventing new hostilities and promoting common European ideals, this is already a very positive conclusion and a positive occasion to look back, because the Council of Europe was very successful. The Council of Europe is older than all European predecessors. The European Coal and Steel Community, already mentioned, was founded two years later, the Nato is the same age, but is not a European, but an Atlantic alliance. I think that the seat of the Council of Europe with Strasbourg is also a very symbolic one, with a city that has changed between Germany and France six times in my knowledge, i.e. a hotly disputed city where peace and freedom were guaranteed. I think it is very positive that in the Council of Europe all the states of Europe and, as mentioned above, other countries, such as Russia or Turkey, are organised in order to discuss things together. Madam President, you have referred to it: The central point in all things is the willingness to talk, dialogue, to be in constant contact with the States in order to make progress. I believe that the Council of Europe's mission in key areas today is as up-to-date as at the time, namely to ensure democracy, human rights and the rule of law in the territory of the Council of Europe and to work beyond that. There are other areas that are dealt with: social, economic, cultural, cooperation, as well as the improvement of local self-government. The European Convention on Human Rights is a Treaty of Europe, and the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, to which every citizen, every citizen, and whose decisions are also binding and therefore very positive in terms of human rights, is crucial. It is gratifying that Austrians like Walter Schwimmer – he has already been mentioned – and other personalities who are anchored in this circle have contributed to this. [[towards gallery looking]] Today, Europe's political agreement is being promoted by the European Union. Of course, there are some who ask themselves: What else do we need the Council of Europe to do? What is the added value? I believe that one can speak of a success story, but of course some critically question it even if, in the Member States, there is a reduction in democracy, the rule of law, if human rights are not guaranteed to the extent that it would be desirable, if perhaps also freedom of the press is not guaranteed or the independence of justice is called into question. – This should not mean, however, that the Council of Europe is not needed, because the Council of Europe has proved that it is possible to create standards that apply to all those who are mandatory and who are also monitored, and that is crucial. The human rights convention has already been mentioned, but also the fight against trafficking in human beings, the equal treatment of women, the protection of children's rights – all of this is crucial. However, I think that another added value is that one remains in dialogue with countries such as Turkey and Russia in particular, in order to make progress together – laboriously, but still, as it is in democracy. However, I would also like to mention the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. This Charter is the only treaty in the world to protect and promote traditional regional and minority languages. I think that's positive. There are also groups of people in Austria who need this protection. It is therefore important to review in the Member States whether measures are being taken to preserve these regional and minority languages. It is the diversity of the common Europe that must be protected. In this sense, we have turbulent times in Europe as a whole, but I think that the Council of Europe – and you have suggested – can play a role in reorientation of the European Union after the European elections with a stabilisation, with the answer to the key issues – migration crisis, Brexit, climate change and environmental protection – if we make progress together in the association of organisations. [[towards President Maury Pasquier]] Congratulations on your anniversary! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2913	Mr Arbitrator has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e2934	Mr President. Mr Liliane, Madam President of the Council of Europe! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already discussed in detail in the last hour, the Council of Europe is one of the key institutions that not only developed those essential European rights, but also looks at them being respected and they remain. It is about human rights, about principles such as the rule of law, but it is also about women's rights, about the right to one's own body, about homosexual rights, about children's rights, about media freedom, about the right of municipal and regional self-government. – All of this is the fundamental rights relating to the Council of Europe, but also to us in Austria. It is not only a theme for speeches on which one speaks about a 70-year-old existence, but also a subject in which we note, as a result of the day-to-day debate, that these political rights are often called into question. It is therefore our political duty to preserve these rights wherever it may be. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] On the other hand, one can also say that these rights are not enough, that it is necessary to defend them and not to give in to those millimeters, to which borders are often shifted. In addition, it is also important to say: Those who question the Council of Europe in the way we have heard this today also call into question these fundamental rights. We should not allow that either, because the orientation for peace, for dialogue, for fundamental rights is not only irrevocable, the fundamental rights also affect every individual person. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It is not only a question between states, as it is often discussed, but it is a question of individual people. What we have heard today in the morning news about the situation in Russia, as is the case with oppositionists, as is the case with the right of demonstration, is a question of individual rights of freedom. The situation in Hungary also shows that it is not only a matter for states – if you want to – at the political edge of Europe, but also in the heart of Europe, these fundamental rights are called into question very strongly. The Council of Europe is the framework which at least gives people the opportunity to defend themselves through the Court of Human Rights and other institutions, but often too little, often not enough, as we have seen in the question of Turkey for many years. Perhaps, if the Council of Europe were more closed on these issues, it could also be much stricter and faster to deal with such lawbreakers. I have now drifted away a little when I mention that the European flag and anthem have been designed and commissioned by the Council of Europe, and the European Union has actually borrowed these two symbols – those two symbols of European unification – from the Council of Europe. [[on the European flag behind the Bureau]] Let me say that yesterday 25 years ago, 12th. In June 1994, the Austrian referendum on accession to the European Union was positive with a two-thirds majority. I mention this not only because it was the starting point for Austria's membership of the European Union, but also because it represented something like a joint Austrian project – probably one of the few strong moments in our history in the last half century, in the last decades at least. This is important to me because it was an essential decision for my generation, but of course also for all the coming generations, and because it showed a common sense, an Austrian spirit, as it has often appeared to be very scattered in recent months. It is precisely because of this that we should also adhere to this spirit of 25 years ago. Therefore, you don't have to sing the international as ÖVP boss in the SPÖ tent, but that's something I think you can do at any time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! – By the way, it is a name that, as I think, should not wear this house for nothing. High House – this term not only contains the question of what important decisions can be made here and taken here, but of course also the question of how parliamentarianism, how politics is lived in our country. I would therefore like to mention this because I have the opportunity to speak here last time as a Member of the National Council. I would like to say goodbye to this Parliament after 13 years. I think that the question of the political culture of interlocutory relations, which is the culture of discussion and, indeed, the culture of dispute, is an essential thing for our country and for our policy. This depends on many of us, on each individual Member – often on the strands – and this also depends on the club members, and the Bureau also has a certain influence, because if you are aware that these meetings are not only broad, fair and sovereign, but also that a partyless activity from the Bureau is an essential asset – as we say in Neudeutsche – of a functioning parliamentaryism, then, I believe, we are taking an essential step forward. In this context, I would also like to mention the President of the National Council when I was elected to the House, that is Barbara Prammer, who unfortunately died too early, because I think she has very strongly shaped the standards here. I'd like to say goodbye today. I was elected to this House in 2006 and was also allowed to be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have always focused on foreign policy. Later, as the clubman of my group, I was allowed to take part in the fact that this House has brought forward essential things – by the way also § 19a of the Rules of Procedure, which Liliane, as President of the Council of Europe, now gives speaking rights under the Secretary-General of the United Nations – including the minority right to set up committee of inquiry, which dates back to this time, and also essential parliamentary foreign policy statements, such as the situation of the Kurds or the genocide of Armenians. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by extending my thanks not only to my District Party, which was once the essential first step, because if it had not always nominated me again and again, I would not have gotten the opportunity, but also to those party chairmen who were active at that time, from Alfred Gusenbauer to Werner Faymann and Christian Kern to today's party president Pamela Rendi-Wagner. I would also like to thank all the members of my group, especially the Social Democrats in the Bureau – I have already mentioned Barbara, but also Doris Bures – as well as all the staff who have supported us in the Club and in Parliament in the work, in particular my secretariat and my staff. I can tell you that this 13 years of parliamentarism – with a few years of government, but I also saw it as a contribution to parliamentarism – were beautiful years, both in my group and in general here in the House, where it was also possible to make friendship with many of you from the various political groups, from the non-social-democratic groups; this is also in really important memory. Ladies and gentlemen, do it well! Austria will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3041	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3062	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President of the Parliamentary Assembly! I do not think that we are here today in a celebration over 70 years of the Council of Europe, but I think that we are holding a debate on the occasion of 70 years of the Council of Europe or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe here in the House, which is a little slid off – up to greetings to the District Party and much more. [[Cheerfulness of Mr Belakovich and Mr Wurm.]] Mr President, the two divorced Members were allowed to cross for 1.2 minutes because they had sent greetings to all possible district organizations. I'd have something to say, I hope you're so negligent with me and give me one minute or another more. In this context, a lot of good and right things have already been said: 70 years of the Council of Europe, including the place of dialogue, is important. However, my impression is that in the last 30 years, the real socialism I have believed to have overcome it in Europe has come back through the back door into the bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly, at least the spirit of exclusion and non-dialogue. A debate or debate over 70 years of the Council of Europe cannot be held without addressing the crisis in which the Council of Europe is actually in. We are experiencing a political crisis of the Council of Europe as a whole, and words have already been mentioned: Russia, Turkey, Ukraine, minority problems, election problems; many values – core values – are not met in many countries of the Council of Europe; they have to be pointed out again and again. This political crisis goes until members do not send, there are return carriages, one goes away from the dialogue more into the debate and much more. This is also so far as the Council of Europe is in a structural and organisational crisis. If we consider that the presence of parliamentarians in the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg these weeks leaves more than to be desired: With nearly 640 members, of which 50 percent are replacement members, currently around 320 ordinary members, who can also be represented, the Council of Europe's decisions on reports or similar usually take place at a presence quo between 20 and 25 percent of MEPs. It is not rare for essential decisions to be made on a Friday morning or afternoon in a presence of 35, 40 parliamentarians because the others have already gone home. In the end, some things are not handled well structurally and organisationally. There are no quarters of attendance for important decisions – and I am going to do so – for example in the case of internal affairs, if you want to change or change the Rules of Procedure. In addition, there is a veritable budgetary crisis because, on the one hand, Russia has suspended its contribution payments for years and, on the other hand, Turkey has also discontinued its voluntary contributions as a major contributor, which means that 20 percent of the budget is missing and, of course, one has to try to save them, drive them up or anything else. Of course, there is also what my colleague Haider said – whether it is reasonable to simply increase or pay more – to consider all the positive goals. That's what I'm talking about right now. No, we're not. We should see these crises as opportunities and change them, especially in the area of transparency. I just mention one example now, because this is already an issue when a corruption report from 2018 – not even a year old – was discussed about a single country, Azerbaijan, while 18 members of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. European members, have been involved in Caviardiplomation, as in this report, 200 pages strong, is written, while lubricating funds up to 10 million euros have been adopted by individual representatives, among other things by your predecessors of the European People's Party, one must say in this point, Agramunt, and this report does not at all tangle the public outside the parliamentary assembly at the end. [[Keeping the said report high]] [[towards President Maury Pasquier]] There were 18 mandates from 12 countries involved – in a single country under investigation – eight of them members of the European People's Party, three members of the Socialists, one member of the European Left, three members of the Alde, the Liberals, and three of the European Conservatives. Save me to mention the names, they're all here in this report. listed! Unfortunately, there is also a representative from Austria, from the Socialist Group, who is listed in this report. The Council of Europe has recommended that this report be discussed in the national parliaments, because there were no consequences – except that the people in part no longer have their mandates. Three still have their mandates and sit in the Council of Europe, others still have their national mandates. In addition, it has not been discussed in any Member State or brought to justice. If we stay so toothless, it makes little sense, Madam President. On the other hand, have A few days ago, under your presidency, you amended the Rules of Procedure with a attendance quo of 20, 25 percent of the Members of the Parliamentary Assembly to make it difficult for the Freeman and his family to set up their own political groups. To that end, the rules of the game have been changed. This will not help anything, we have fulfilled all the formal requirements, and after long discussions we have not done enough and approved this group, but have finally not allowed this group. This creates two types, two classes of Members: those who have parliamentary rights, and those who have none. I remind you: 85 Members are non-attached – this is the current state of play in the Parliamentary Assembly. In a political establishment of the Socialists, they discuss with the People's Party, with the Liberals, but do not want to maintain dialogue with the other members at the end. Mr President. Madam President. We like to start the dialogue. You have invited and you say you are expecting our active participation. We also want to do this, but you must grant us the same rights – not living exclusion – as all other established political groups do. Avoid otherwise They need to take action and thus provide bear service in terms of transparency, pluralism, democracy, the rule of law and other core values. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3150	Ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to remind you of this: I'm not negligent about time, I'm tolerant, and I've given you more speaking time. I would also like to say at the same time that in this form we have given everyone the same opportunity in terms of content and that it is only right and reasonable for Members who have long since left Parliament to express a thank you to their parties and to the nominated delegates. I think that's legitimate. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Griss is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3181	Mr President. Madam President of the Parliamentary Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, you have said that the European House is characterised by three essential elements, and these three elements are fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only agree with you. For me, the rule of law is in the first place. It is the basis for everything. If we have no rule of law, we have no democracy, and if there is no rule of law, then fundamental rights cannot be enforced. However, with the rule of law, it is similar to that of health: She's a precarious man. Its value usually becomes known to us only if it is threatened if there is a risk that we will lose it. There is another parallel between the rule of law and health: You have to do something to get them. She's not there automatically, she's not guaranteed. The Council of Europe is something like a doctor who looks forward to the fact that the states actually preserve and maintain their rule of law. Three areas are particularly important here. The first area is politics. Policy must become the rule of law by making it clear to them that general orders can only be adopted by means of the law, that law determines politics and not politics's right – although, of course, politics can do something about it. I am very grateful to the Council of Europe for the fact that the Greco Commission has pointed out the importance of a review process that deserves this name. Unfortunately, we don't always have that. The second area, which is very important for the rule of law, is the independent courts, the independence of judges, the institution of jurisdiction and the infidelity of judges. I have been told once on a visit to work in an Eastern European Member State of the Union: Well, with us they say: I'm not paying the lawyer, I'm paying a judge. – That’s terrible, because corruption is a cancer disease and crushes the state. We must be on the hat everywhere; I can only give you the right, Madam President. We must not just look at these states. Even here and today, we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no corruption in all areas, not only in justice – my experience is thank God that this does not happen there – even in the public administration, in the parties there is no corruption. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Human rights are very important. In Austria, the European Convention on Human Rights has constitutional status, and it was quite natural for me as a judge to consider whether an Austrian law that I had to apply is compatible with the ECHR. We have closely followed the case law of the EGMR and we have applied it here. If a law was not compatible, we would have challenged it at the Constitutional Court. So there has also been set for the national courts of the EGMR standards which are essential for the preservation and development of human rights. There is a third area, and this third area is very important to me: The rule of law is made up of subjects of citizens – citizens who have rights to the state but who also have obligations to the state, because without a legal awareness, without the awareness that the rule of law must be respected, even if there is no immediate force, the rule of law cannot work. Ernst-Wolfgang Böckenförde, the German philosophy of law and constitutional law, expressed this very well. He said: “The liberal, secularized state lives on conditions that it itself cannot guarantee.” This is the mission to all of us, especially to people who work in politics: We have to live up to this, because what shapes is the example. Everyone is called upon to live the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3253	Thank you very much, thank you for the debate. No one has made any mention of this now. I am particularly grateful to you, Madam President, for making this statement before the Austrian National Council as the second person and first woman. I wish you all the right for your important work. Thank you. [[General condolences.]] Before I left the 2nd place. We still have the task of collecting the technical equipment again. That is why Parliament's management asked me to interrupt the sitting briefly. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 11.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.11 a.m.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. [[11:11:18]] 2. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of members of the public prosecutor's office (629, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3318	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Dr.in Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3349	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the gallery! The People's Procuratorate has a very, very important task: In her case, any citizen and any citizen who feels wronged by the administration may complain. Our People's Procuratorate has a massive flaw of beauty from its composition: The three strongest parties choose the Volksanwälte. I can stay in the male form because we are probably today – unfortunately! – will vote a three-way proposal, in which only men will find themselves. In my opinion, this is unacceptable in 2019. But what does it mean that the three strongest parties issue the Volksanwälte? – This means that those two of the three parties, who are in government responsibility or will very likely come, choose their own controllers. This beauty mistake has become a gross international flaw, since the People's Procuratorate has also been a National Prevention Mechanism against Torture, that is, NPM, in short. As NPM, the People's Procuratorate is intended to prevent torture by means of controls and recommendations. As we are talking about something, Article 18 of the Optional Protocols of the UN to the Convention against Torture require a transparent ordering procedure to ensure that this institution is independent. The UN Subcommittee on the Prevention of Torture sets clear conditions here: The ordering process should be open, transparent and inclusive. This means that civil society should be involved, experts, that should be a transparent process. It would be best to find the subcommittee, an order committee. But we are so far away in Austria as you can only be. Here in Austria, the three largest parties behind closed doors have given some thought, and this proposal for a threesome has come out. And I was not even able to answer the very simple question in the main committee, which qualification criteria for the candidates and to what extent they were met by these three finalists. We now have the choice of whether or not we agree to the proposal of this masculine, -duos, -trios – I dream of the duo or of the Uno. And this is the following: They are truly endowed with us here. It is true that the Constitution provides that the members of the People's Procuratorate are elected by the National Council on the basis of an overall proposal from the Main Committee, but only this appointment process has long been criticized by constitutional judges, by Mayer, Kucsko-Stadlmayer, Stöger, for example, “it is not about a choice, but about a right of posting by the three most powerful parties, which is also not a choice by using the main committee.” And: ‘The special nature of the order is referred to as ‘election’ by paragraph 2 of this Article; it is a right of posting by political parties.’ That is the Constitution at the moment, I fully respect it. However, it must be changed, and we have already tabled a corresponding request in the last legislative period, now it is again in the Constitutional Committee, a request in the sense of transparency and independence in the order mode. But the Constitution would have allowed the three major parties here to hold a public hearing or at least inform us about what the qualification criteria they signed out, and to what extent these three finalists have best fulfilled them. It is hard to imagine, but in truth everyone who is elected to the National Council is also a popular attorney, i.e. real experts – not long-served politicians – who have expertise in the field of human rights in the field of torture. Because this simple question could not be answered in the main committee, we – NEOS – see ourselves unable to agree to this opaque and therefore not comprehensible proposal for this men's trio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3410	Mr Wolfgang Sobotka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3431	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear guests on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! I should like to take advantage of the opportunity for my virgin speech here in the House – the opportunity for me to make the decision. It is not only here in this body, but for the population as a whole. When one considers how intensive and successful the public prosecutor has worked in the years since its establishment, one can again see how necessary it is, how much valued and how strongly anchored it is in the population. It has a special closeness to the National Council because it also controls enforcement as well as the National Council. I think that the division of the subject areas between three national lawyers in special areas really helps to cover all areas in which the population is affected in the administration. The People's Procuratorate is an institution which, since the end of the 1970s, has become a very important point of contact for citizens who have not felt fair. And, see: Many of these complaints could be dealt with positively. That is, from this recognition, through the acceptance of the citizens is this instrument, this institution has become a very essential one. As a result of changes over the years, the structures of the People's Procuratorate have also changed: After the establishment of 1977, it was very soon necessary to extend the term of office of the Volksanwälte to six years – for two term periods, twice six years, they can be ordered. It is also apparent that the last extension of the public prosecutor's competences was very important, that of 2012, namely the mandate to protect human rights, which honourable Members Krisper also mentioned. The People's Procuratorate is also part of the international control system of human rights. This is based on two very essential UN decisions: on the one hand on the UN Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman and humiliating treatment and on the other hand on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. I think one reason for this expansion is that one has seen that the People's Procuratorate is particularly well accepted by the people in order to address them in this way; where rights of persons are restricted where persons are restricted in their rights of freedom, are also restricted by laws or because of their personal state in the sense of disability or by the presence in a hospital or in a disability facility. I believe that in this long history of the People's Procuratorate, we can see that the population not only accepts it, but can also reach it very easily and uncomplicatedly. Just look at the figures of the last report we discussed here yesterday: Of 16 000 applications – 66 per working day – most of them concern labour, social and health law or administration. Secondly, people who have not yet achieved what is necessary in terms of equality are already disabled. There is still much to be done in all the local authorities in the administration. Finally, internal security and justice are further areas that are examined by the Public Prosecutor's Office, and this shows how necessary it has become, how established and respected and appreciated. You yesterday expressed this with your applause to the three lawyers, the colleague Brinek, Günther Herbe and Peter Fichtenbauer. I think they have done excellent work over the years, which is the business card of this public prosecutor. Just as it was in the ordering process back then, it is also today. I should like to point out once again, even for Mrs Krisper, that this is perfectly in conformity with the law. We have already discussed this in the main committee, and the fact that the three representatives mentioned by the parties have also been highly satisfied with the attention that is required. Why is that so? – They come from the administrative area in a comprehensive sense. They are very familiar with the subject of human rights as well as their daily life. So I can only say that our three today, through the National Council nominees, Werner Amon, Bernhard Achitz and Walter Rosenkranz, deserve our full confidence, which are also able to see beyond the edge of the plate, which – and I think this is the most essential thing for a popular attorney or a popular lawyer – see people who see personality, because not all that is brought to the public prosecutorship comes to a treatment. It is also important that some are not treated because of lack of competence, or because there is really no misbehavior in the administration. That's why it's not possible to explain to the people. In many cases, which I have experienced on all levels, this works perfectly. Let's be honest: These three are indeed the spearhead, but finally it is an excellent staff member who minces this work substantially, which puts his fingers on the wound that needs to be healed, and which is also a guarantee that there is stability over the years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I should like to thank these three lawyers for their willingness to take over this office. It also entails a high burden, on the other hand a high level of recognition and, in particular, a great responsibility. We are pleased when they present their reports to the National Council and we are able to discuss the importance and value of their work and their cooperation in the service of people so that they can come to their right and really be perceived as people in all.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3514	Mrs Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3538	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we order the new Volksanwälte for the next period, for the next six years. We heard yesterday the reports of the divorcing Volksanwälte, the Volksanwälter. Not least in the discussion of yesterday's reports, we have seen once again how important the work of the Volksanwälte, which is popular lawyers and with what great commitment and great commitment the divisive national lawyers have also completed this work. The Public Prosecutorship is an important control body in our country that works in the interests of citizens and in the protection of human rights. The Constitutional Commission for the Public Procuratorate is clear: Anyone, every man, every woman, can turn to the People's Procuratorate in the event of alleged misunderstandings. If one feels unfairly treated by the administration, one can take to the People's Procuratorate and will be given a dedicated, active support there. Many citizens in our country make use of this. The fact that the People's Procuratorate enjoys great popularity – as Mr President has just pointed out – shows not least the balance of the divisive lawyers who can point out that 16 000 people have reported to the People's Procuratorate in 2018, turned to the People's Procuratorate, asked for support and received it. In this sense, my group is also grateful to the divorced national lawyers. We have been able to express our thanks and our recognition in the presence of the divorcing lawyers yesterday, but I would also like to expressly stress this once again on the occasion of the appointment of the new Volksanwälte. Our thanks to the divorced lawyers Günther Herbe, Gertrude Brinek and Peter Fichtenbauer for their work, which they have accomplished in the last six years excellently and with great commitment. Of course, I would like to thank Günther Kräub, the popular lawyer nominated by our group, who has been responsible for the social and health and labour market management in recent years and who has also been Secretary General of the International Ombudsman Institute. Thanks to Günther Herbs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that much has to be done in its area of social, health and labour market management, particularly much has to be done, shows that around 30 percent, i.e. around one third of the public prosecutor's audit procedures take place in this area. For this reason, we have also nominated an expert in this field for the overall proposal to be voted here today. We have nominated with Bernhard Achitz an excellent expert, a personality that deserves support from our point of view. For this support, we would like to ask you here today. Bernhard Achitz is a lawyer and an appointed social and health expert. He led the Department of Social Policy of the ÖGB and worked in the labour market and health administration, providing expertise in this regard. He also brings great expertise in the field of human rights. He was a member of the Constitutional Convention in the Committee on Fundamental Rights. He has, not least I would like to stress, also contributed very much to the functioning of the social partners in Austria; an institution, a practice in Austria that deserves great recognition and should probably also deserve more appreciation from the government than it has been in recent years. Especially in the field of social and accident insurance, Bernhard Achitz brings in special expertise and experience, because he has also been active in the field of social security in recent years. Overall, it has high expertise and experience, which predestined it to use massively for the enforcement of the interests of citizens, and to this end it has a high degree of competence. Finally, I should also like to congratulate the other candidates nominated under the overall proposal, Mr Werner Amon and Mr Walter Rosenkranz, on their work. I can assure you that we will support you in your work as part of our possibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3604	Mr Ing. Norbert Hoferist. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3629	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know that, thanks to the excellent staff in the house and also thanks to the excellent lawyers who have worked in this field in recent decades, the public prosecutors have developed a very, very good reputation as an institution. The People's Procuratorate helps people when it comes to solving problems with authorities. As politicians, I think it has often happened to you that people come who have a special concern. In quite a number of cases, they can be referred to the People's Procuratorate, and there is actually being helped. Günther Herb, Gertrude Brinek and Peter Fichtenbauer have done their job very well, have developed a broad recognition across party borders and are also known to many people in the country through the mission “Citizen solicitor” with Peter Resetarits. Peter Fichtenbauer may also be known to you from his time as a member of the National Council – known because he is a master of the box set, the sentences were always very, very long, but also very clever. He has an interesting hobby: He's collecting baroque measuring clothes. Those who already had the pleasure of visiting him at home know that there are a lot of baroque measuring clothes that he put on once a year on Nikolaus Day to play Nikolaus for the children – now they are too old. I would like to thank Günther Herbe, Gertrude Brinek and also my friend Peter Fichtenbauer for the great work they have done. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Werner Amon is known to all of us. I can imagine that after so many years, it is not easy to give a farewell speech here from this speaker's desk. But I am firmly convinced that all that you have gained from experiences here in the House, but also from all the other political functions that you have, will be an essential foundation for your successful work as a popular lawyer. You're gonna be great at this. Good for it! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Bernhard Achitz is a recognised expert, also has high social competence and is active in the trade union. There is also an undisputed fact that he is highly qualified as a public prosecutor and will do his job well. I wish him all the best. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lindner.]] Walter Rosenkranz was Klubobmann in a coalition, and in a coalition the function of the clubman is a particularly challenging one. The two club members are particularly closely working together, and applications are being developed. There are the co-ordination sessions that are being held together. I think Walter Rosenkranz has thus also gained recognition across party borders. I also believe that he has maintained a very good contact among the opposition parties, which we now belong to, and that he is someone to whom you can rely. By the way, he's not only a lawyer, he's also studied guitar; and if you hear him playing guitar, you think there are two or three people playing on the strings – and that's very impressive. What connects him with Peter Fichtenbauer is that he also likes to collect. It's coins with him. Dear intruders, please don't listen, they're not at Walter Rosenkranz's home, but somewhere else. He collects coins, and Peter Fichtenbauer just collects baroque measuring clothes. Mr Volksanwälte, I wish you patience and a quality that you need in politics, but which is often too rare, namely listening. It is an important task that you have to do. - All right, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3702	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3723	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been there long enough to track some of these selection processes, and it's always the same game: The three largest political groups each nominate one candidate, one candidate and, of course, defend her nomination, and then also support the candidates of the other major political groups so that nothing can happen in connection with the election. The criticism that comes from the smaller groups and which is quite right to recognize what you would see if you looked at it from the outside and objectively, however, remains somewhere on the track. What's the criticism? – The first criticism relates to the nomination process by the three major political groups: The law lays down appropriate, adequate qualifications and sufficient knowledge in human rights. It's a little funnily formulated, but on the other hand, you can ask – and now really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really: Did we really choose the best in our ranks as nominees? Do all three groups really trust themselves in the three major political groups to say that there is no better in civil society than those who have been nominated? These have been over the many years in which I have experienced this, almost always old-fashioned parliamentarians. It may already be that they have some knowledge of human rights and also have a minimum basis for appropriate qualifications – I do not at all agree with the three now nominees at all – but there are, of course, better in Austria. I do not understand why Parliament cannot afford to choose the best for this job for Austria. I don't understand why there can't be any hearing for that either. This is a democratic process, which would perhaps not only bring about some correction within the hearing, but also such a hearing serves to improve the awareness and knowledge of human rights in the population: How can human rights be better applied? What criticism is there of this? Where and how are they disdained? The second is – and I have been trying for many years to bring it in, it is still the case now –: Why are the lawyers and lawyers even nominated by the three largest political groups? This is quite clearly a mistake in the law, because if we take control seriously, then we cannot claim that it works best when the controlled exercise control. And that is more or less, because the lawyers have the task of controlling the administration, and the top administration are the ministries. At the head of the ministries are, of course, the personalities selected by the government groups. This means that representatives of the I would like to remind the House that the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and This cannot be the optimal condition in the sense of Checks and Balances. Now, of course, I know – in there, out there! – that we will never enforce this, because the three largest factions will never shake at it because they can occupy their posts and position their people. I believe, however, that in the end, this election – and that has rightly been said by Mr Krisper – is a farce. It is not a choice, so let us say at least the same thing that the three biggest simply say who is a popular lawyer and who is a public prosecutor, and let's not pretend to be a democratic process ahead of it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3766	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3790	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is undisputed that the public prosecutorship in Austria is an important control instrument within the meaning of citizens. It is my concern to thank the three divorced lawyers, namely Mrs Gertrude Brinek, Günther Herbe and Peter Fichtenbauer. I believe that these three really have done a very, very good job, that they have helped many people to their right, that they have identified shortcomings and that the situation has finally been improved for many people. In this sense, I say a warm thank you to the three who are now leaving their function. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Light peace.]] With 1. ==References====External links== And – I see this differently, Mr Zinggl – it has proved quite well that the three strongest groups have the right to propose to the lawyers. I am also not aware of a complaint from the last decades in which, after this mode, it was nominated that we had ever had a popular lawyer or a popular lawyer who somehow would have fallen into discredit. I am not aware of any complaints, so we are also in favour of this nomination mode. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Yesterday we also debated the comprehensive final reports of the Volksanwaltin and the Volksanwälte of this term of office. This is about 16 000 requests from citizens in one year, which also shows that this is a very important instrument for citizens. I would like to make a brief reference to the three personalities. Mr Amon from our group. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to finish by congratulating Mr Amon on his report. I'm starting with Bernhard Achitz, who was nominated by SPÖ for the People's Procuratorate. I've known Bernhard Achitz for many years. We have worked together a lot, especially in his function as ÖGB Secretary, I am a social spokesperson of the People's Party. He is an absolute expert, recognized across all party borders. It is, I believe, also important that this expertise exists in the public prosecutorry, especially in the social and health field. That is why Bernhard Achitz is at least suitable for this function, and of course we are happy to support this proposal. I don't need to say much about Walter Rosenkranz. I think we've shown ourselves as clubs over the last one and a half years and have proved that we've really worked very, very well together. We could do a lot of things here. Above all, I appreciate his friendship. I say this in times like this very consciously. We must not let all friendships be torn off, and those with Walter Rosenkranz not at all. We really understood ourselves here. He has a broad expertise, he's a lawyer, he's a lawyer, so: [[Abg. Noll:... no lawyer!]] Who should be better suited than Walter Rosenkranz? I beg you, judge this too, of course, he has our full support. [[Call the FPÖ: He's over there!]] - There he is! Dear Walter, thank you also for your collegiality and for your friendship! We wish you all the best in your new function. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now I come to my longtime friend Werner Amon, whom I have known personally for over 25 years. When he came to the National Council at that time, as a JVP-Obmann, I invited him to an event as a federal chairman and he came to my home community. I would also like to say that Werner Amon has performed five spokesperson functions in these 25 years. He has started with human rights; he has been human rights spokesperson of the People's Party for over five years, he has been responsible for development cooperation, education, social affairs, external affairs, and in recent years he has been the security spokesperson of the People's Party. He is also Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The discussion, which preceded this item on the agenda, proves once again that Werner Amon is perfectly suitable and qualified for the function of the public prosecutor. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as by Mr Martin Graf and Mr Zanger.]] Mr Werner, on behalf of the People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to end by thanking you very much for the two and a half decades as a Member of this House. By the way, I do not share this view that a MP only comes to the public prosecutor's office because he is there for a long time. I believe that this is a positive condition for someone who comes into this important role to be a parliamentarian for a long time. I see this as an advantage and not so much that you can create a post for someone somewhere else. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Werner Amon, I thank you very much for your decades of activity on behalf of the whole People's Party. We have unanimously nominated you in the club in secret for this function; that is, we are fully behind you. We wish you all, all right. Thank you very much for your long-standing work. Keep us weighed! And we'll be glad every time you come to the club. In the sense of the people in Austria, in the sense of the population, I wish all three lawyers a good, happy hand and, above all, that they help people to their right. This is, as it were, the basic consensus in the field of public prosecutorry. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3867	I call Mr Reinhold Einwallner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3888	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This was now a very, very warm confession of Mr. Klubobmann's Wöginger also towards FPÖ, thus quite contrary to the new poster series of the ÖVP, which you are now paving throughout the country. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This also leads to one or the other being closed. Let me now turn to the subject, ladies and gentlemen. We discussed the public prosecutor's report here yesterday in the House, i.e. the current account of the public prosecutor's office. I call this number, these 16,000 cases now, too, because it is very, very impressive that 16 000 people turn to the People's Procuratorate each year. This shows very strongly and impressively how much the retention of this institution in the population is, how important this institution is to the population and what the trust bonus this public prosecutor has. With regard to these complaints that arise, it is not only about the complaints in the field of public administration, but the public prosecutorship is doing much more – and that has already been expressed by my previous speakers – because since 2012, the public prosecutorship has also been responsible for the constitutional mandate to grant and promote respect for human rights within the framework of a UN mandate. The Public Prosecutor's Office is also the central body in Austria, which, in addition to respecting human rights, also respects those of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled and respects these rights of the disabled. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the personalities today who are elected will be aware of the importance of this function and will act and act in the interests of people, human rights and human rights protection. With Bernhard Achitz, the Socialist Group nominates an absolute expert on health and social policy issues. About 30 percent, i.e. about one third of all cases referred to the public prosecutor's office, concern the area of social, work and health; and therefore, with Bernhard Achitz, we have nominated a man with much experience, who will be a strong voice for the people who turn to the public prosecutor's office. I think we proposed the right person. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle and in conclusion, I can say that our group will, of course, support and agree to the proposal of the main committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3942	Mrs Carmen Schimanekistes. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e3967	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! With July 2019, the Public Prosecutor's Office will start in its eighth term of office, which is 42. Year of the People's Procuratorate. I would also like to express my great thanks once again to the three leading national lawyers, Dr. Brinek, Dr. Fichtenbauer and Dr. Kräube, who have always shown great appreciation to the public prosecutors for their excellent work, cooperation with Parliament and also cooperation with the citizens. In the last six years there has been a great change in this respect, and new tasks have been added. At this point, however, I must also say a word about Mr Zinggl: I remember very well when, in 2013, we praised the new Volksanwälte – I was also a member of this House at the time – and I can still remember the very undemocratic nature of the Greens in the discussion when they tried very hard to talk about our Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer bad. And today we are almost being laden, saddened, because there is a proposal from the It's the main committee. I can't remember that this was also the case in the discussion on the appointment of Volksanwälter Stoisits, there was no subject at all – even with the Greens! In this respect, I am also somewhat lacking in the democratic understanding of this group. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] I would now like to pay tribute to my dear colleague Dr. Walter Rosenkranzmeine and I am looking forward to working together. We have been here in the Hohenhaus since 2008. I have learned to appreciate you as a colleague; we have experienced a lot of things with each other. I know you're an excellent lawyer, you're very empathetic – you're going to be a good popular lawyer to the people and also to the citizens who come to you. I wish you all the best for this activity. I hope we will continue to keep in touch and you will still visit us very often, even with us in the club, and even if you are outside the constituencies on the visiting days, I think every local group and every district will be happy to welcome you there. Of course, we will also take part in the proposal concerning Mr Amon and Mr Achitz, and I really look forward to continuing good cooperation in the People's Procuratorate Committee. – Good for the three new Volksanwälten!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4027	Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais has now been notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4051	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We have already heard how popular the People's Procuratorate is, on the one hand, from all the speakers who have spoken here and have actually found only praise for the People's Procuratorate, but also from the citizens they claim. We heard yesterday in the debate on the relevant report that there are 16 000 people who turn to the public prosecutors every year, and the figures are still rising. So it can be said that the institution is only as good as the people who work there; these are the lawyers with their employees. If today, Mr Zinggl has been addressed that the nature of the nomination in his opinion is not that optimal, it was the case of the popular lawyers who held this function over the last decades, which has always increased the public's appeal. I thanked the three lawyers Gertrude Brinek, Peter Fichtenbauer and Mr Kräuben yesterday, but would like to repeat this again, of course, because they have really worked well with Parliament and have also provided the best for these people in the service of the people so that their cases can be dealt with satisfactorily. On the one hand, if people have problems with the authorities that they accept and review them, the Public Prosecutor's Office is there for them to review compliance with human rights in judicial institutions, in nursing homes and in other institutions and sees that human rights are respected or the situation improved by bringing appropriate proposals to Parliament through their reports. The lawyers were also entrusted with new tasks, such as the provision of the home-offering pension, and this was done very well by them. With regard to the proposed new lawyers, I can only say that I can support all three, because I think every party has made a great effort to bring the best people. With Mr Bernhard Achitz, we have an expert in the social field, with Walter Rosenkranz a lawyer who is ideally suited and is familiar with all of us from his parliamentary work, and of course we have our candidate, Mr Werner Amon, whom you have all known from Parliament for many years, and who has already fully absorbed politics and dealings with people. If you're in politics for so long, you just have to love people. I think an important prerequisite for a public prosecutor is that he can listen that he can take up the complaints and then he tries to achieve an improvement in the situation. This is also the top goal of everyone sitting in here, and I therefore believe that these are very good foundations. Of course, what Werner Amon has done here all the time is also important to the outside proverb, which is why he really has the best conditions. He has always been a security speaker since 2013 and thus also in dealing with the communities, which is also important in this position so that one knows how the communities tick and what is going on there. In addition, he has been human rights spokesperson for five years and has a special competence in human rights matters. So I can only say that all three nominees are to be supported. I wish them all the best, so that they can get the best out of the citizens and see that human rights are being safeguarded and that there is no political work in Parliament. – In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4113	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we are going to vote on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if there are no objections, I will vote on this overall proposal from the main committee by standing up and sitting. I ask if there are any objections to it. - That's not the case. Then I'll do that. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who have the power to apply for the main committee in 629 additions, Werner Amon, MBA. Bernhard Achitz and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz with effectiveness from 1. July 2019 to elect members of the People's Procuratorate, give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. That's Werner Amon, MBA, Mag. Bernhard Achitz and Dr. Walter Rosenkranz not by acclaim, but by a majority of this House elected to popular lawyers. [[long-lasting, standing applause with ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and NOW]] I too wish them all the best for this task. [[11:57:40]] 3rd. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Criminals and Corruption, GZ. 17 St 25/17t, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschank (634 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4197	This is the third time we've reached 3rd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this, so the debate is closed again. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. That is what we are going to vote on. We come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 634 of the supplements to decide on the following: "In consideration of the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption of 21st century BC. May 2019 [...] for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschankwegen of the suspicion of a criminal offence according to §§ 12 second case, 153 para. 1 and 3 first case StGB, in event §§ 12 second case, 156 para. 1 and 2 StGB is in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the alleged criminal act and the parliament's political activity to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschankbe.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:59:52]] 4. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Central Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Criminals and Corruption, GZ. 17 St 2/19p, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschank as well as modification of the request of the Central Prosecution for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption, GZ. 17 St 2/19p, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschank (635 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4267	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. That is what we are going to vote on. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 635 of the supplements to decide on the following: "In consideration of the request of the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption of 22nd century. May 2019 (as well as modification of the Request by the Central Public Prosecutor for the prosecution of economic crimes and corruption [...] for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschankvom 3. June 2019) for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Dr. Markus Tschankwegen of the suspicion of a criminal offence according to §§ 12 third case, 153 para. 1 and 3 second case of StGB, is in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the alleged criminal act and the political activity of the Member [...] Dr. Markus Tschankbe.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. I announce that the request for a deadline has been withdrawn on request 798/A by Dr.in Griss, colleagues. [[12:01:58]] In view of the fact that a number of amendments have been tabled at this part-session, I ask the political groups whether there is a desire for an in-depth examination and therefore also a short break in the sitting. – Mr Leichfried, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4357	Madam President. We would, since there are still a few very short-term applications to be examined, plead for them and ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4372	It is now only the question of whether it is about voting on the requests for deadlines or about the subsequent allocation meeting. Is it about the assignment meeting?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4387	As far as we are concerned, this would be for the allocation meeting, but perhaps this is different for other political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4419	Please, Mrs. Club Chairman Meinl-Reisinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4443	In principle: We won't need 10 minutes, but if you're gonna give us 5 minutes, that'd be good.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4462	I'm just asking if this relates to the assignment meeting. But if there is a desire to make a short interruption now, I will also comply with this wish. Do you agree to a 5 minute session break? – Then I would ask you to examine the content of the requests and to interrupt the session for 5 minutes. The sitting was suspended. [[The meeting was suspended at 12.03 a.m. and resumed at 12.07 a.m.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the interrupted sitting again. [[12:07:43]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4514	I should like to ask the honourable Members to take up the seats, otherwise I will find it difficult to vote – and you too. We shall now proceed to a number of votes, namely the votes on the time-limits for the sitting. Before entering the vote, I announce that the request for a deadline has been made by the honourable Member. Dr Zinggl on request 306/A was accidentally announced twice, but of course only once came to the vote. First of all, we shall vote on the requests made by Members Wöginger, Hofer, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, each with a period of time up to 1. to report on the following applications: 816/A by Mr Sieber, Mr Mühlberghuber, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 780/A by Mr Sieber, Mr Neubauer, Mr Colleagues, on ‘a federal law amending the Pensions Commission Act’. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. 695/A by Mr Fürlinger, Mr Stefan, colleagues, on ‘a federal law amending the General Social Security Act’. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. 905/A by MEPs Wöginger, Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act’. Who is for this deadline? – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by Members Wöginger, Hofer, colleagues and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a period of up to 2 years. July 2019 to report on the following government templates: 564 of the supplements: Protocol of 2014 to the Convention on Forced Labour, 1930; Recommendation – point 203 – concerning complementary measures to effectively eliminate forced labour. Who agrees to this deadline? – This is unanimously accepted. 386 of the supplements: Agreements with Ukraine's Department of Ministers on cooperation in the fields of education, science and culture. Who is for this deadline? – This is unanimously accepted. 510 of the supplements: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the proposal from the Commission to the Opposition against the accession of the Republic of the Philippines to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents from Certification. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of Members Wöginger, Hofer, colleagues and the judicial committee to report to the Government Template 623 of the Supplements on the Amendment of Liability Law 2019 a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is for this deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Magn. Rossmann, the Budget Committee on Reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 856/A. Rossmann, colleagues on the Federal Budget Act, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Dr.in Zadić, the Legal Affairs Committee for Reporting on Amendment 892/A by Dr. Jarolim, Dr. Scherak, Dr.in Zadić, and colleagues on “a federal law to withdraw the surveillance of encrypted news, which amends the Federal Law on Criminal Procedures 1975 and the Law of Prosecutions”. to sit on July. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Zinggl, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the request 306/A by Dr. Zinggl, colleagues, concerning “a Federal Constitutional Act establishing a mandatory review procedure in the Federal Law”. to sit on July. Who agrees? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Rossmann, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 678/A. Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues concerning “a federal law that amends the Federal Care Money Act”, a period of time until 1. to sit on July. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the majority, accepted. We come to the vote on the request made by Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 910/A by Mr Mag.a Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, Mag. Stefan, colleagues on Share Law Amendment Act 2019 a deadline until 1. to sit on July. Who is for this deadline? – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the request made by Mrs Wittmann, ladies and gentlemen, to the Constitutional Committee for reporting on the motion for a resolution 889/A by Mr Dr. Wittmann, colleagues and colleagues on “a federal Constitutional Act that amends the Federal Constitutional Act”, a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Dipl.-Ing.in Bißmann, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 444/A(E) by Mr Bißmann, colleagues on the convening of a working group to develop a non-profit eco-social tax reform. to sit on July. Who is in favour of this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request from Members Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 860/A by Mrs Androsch, colleagues in the field of animal transport law. to sit on July. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Members Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 324/A by Mr Stöger, colleagues in the field of social responsibility law. to be set up on July 2019. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to this deadline to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, to the Health Committee for Reporting on Amendment 558/A(E) by Mr Lindner, colleagues on 'Stop conversion therapies'. to be set up on July 2019. Who is in favour of this request for a deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. [[Call the SPÖ:Bravo!]] We shall vote on the requests made by Members Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, each with a period of time up to 1. To report on the following applications: 123/A(E) by Mr Keck, colleagues, on ‘Communication of the NSCHG taxation’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. 124/A(E) by Mr Keck, Members of Parliament, on ‘Fleet-free special pension scheme’. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. 211/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, on ‘a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act’. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Fichtinger, ladies and gentlemen, to the Environment Committee for reporting on Mr Fichtinger's motion for a resolution (906/A) by Mrs Fichtinger, colleagues, on a federal law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the request of Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 888/A by Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on ‘a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research’. to sit on July. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This deadline is adopted by a majority. We shall come to the vote on the request of Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the Committee on Buildings and Housing, to report on Mr Singer's motion for a resolution (907/A). Schrangl, colleagues in respect of housing public utility law a period of up to 2. to sit on July. Who is in favour of this deadline request? – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the request made by Members Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 865/A by Mrs Muchitsch, colleagues on a federal law amending the Labour Peace Act and other laws. to sit on July. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the requests made by Members Wöginger and Hofer, the Committee on Education, on a time limit of up to 1 January each. to report on the following applications: 872/A by Dr. Taschner, Mölzer, colleagues on a federal law which amends the school organisation law and other laws. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Zinggl shakes the head and points to Abg. Noll.]] - Sorry, isn't it unanimous? I see it badly, honourable Member, but I am grateful if I am given a sign. This deadline is not unanimous but adopted by a large majority. 871/A by Dr. Tashner, Mölzer, Colleagues concerning “a federal law amending the Education Investment Act”. Who is for this deadline? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on the request made by Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the Environment Committee for reporting on Mr Köstinger's motion for a resolution (COM(88) 887/A) by Mr Köstinger, Mr Hofer, colleagues, on the AWG legislative amendment 2019, a deadline of 1 January 2019. to sit on July. Whoever is for this setting of deadlines, I ask for signs. – This is accepted by a majority. [[12:20:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00082_d7e4695	I announce that in today's session, self-employed applications 912/A to 925/A(E) have been tabled. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 12.35 a.m., as there is a desire for a short interruption. This meeting is closed.
