ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2094	Ladies and gentlemen! I can take the 5th. National Council meeting on Tuesday, 26. November 2019, declare for open, due to a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. November 2019 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Deputies Petra Bayr, MA MLS, Rainer Wimmer, Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Petra Stegerund Michael Bernhard have been reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2140	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister of Defence Mag. Thomas Starlinger is Mag. Dr. Brigitte Zarfl. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2173	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2320	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 187/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Dr Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance Dkfm. Müller regarding “From Ibiza to the corruption allegations and human resources at Causa Casinos – how Turkis-Blue wanted to sell the Republic” to be dealt with urgently. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 1 p.m. I may announce that ORF 2 will be transferred from 13.10 to 4 pm, then ORF III will be transferred until 7.15 p.m. There will also be another photographer on behalf of the Parliament's Directorate on the road. I may interrupt the sitting until 1 p.m. to call for urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2366	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! Values Watchers at home in front of the TV sets! I can start the meeting again and ask for attention. [[13:02:38]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: ‘From Ibiza to the anti-corruption throwing and personalising at the Causa Casinos – how Turquoise-Blue wanted to sell the Republic” (187/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2407	We come to the urgent discussion of the written question 187/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2863	I may ask Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner as the first questioner to state the reasons for the request, according to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2884	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! You will be able to imagine that I would rather stand here – here, in the House, in Parliament – and talk about the great challenges of the future of our time, about the solutions that are necessary, about the great tasks that Parliament and the government have to deal with – today, tomorrow and in the coming years. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why don't you do it?]] [[Call the ÖVP: I believe that!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You don't think about it alone!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] In fact, we should be talking here in Parliament together today about how we can deal with the flawed economic situation with sensible measures. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you have any suggestions?]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We should talk about how, with sufficient tax reductions, we can at last pay due burden to the diligent workers in our country. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you have any suggestions?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Were they not industrious in the SPÖ headquarters?]] [[Abg. Haubner: Now we know why you have not been elected!]] We should be discussing together here, Mr Wöginger, how we are meeting the climate crisis together, the climate crisis that does not allow for a delay in the policies. We should talk about how Austria can be a European pioneer in the fight against the climate crisis. We should talk about the fact that thousands of people in Austria can no longer afford their home, because rents have increased in recent years, has become a luxury. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Let's talk about the fees in Vienna!]] We should also talk about the fact that it is a shame to a country like Austria that 300,000 children live in poverty, on the poverty line, and may have a perspectiveless life before themselves if policy is not in good time. All these questions, ladies and gentlemen, which directly concern the lives of the Austrians, are not here today. That's more than painful and that's more than a pity. What do we do today instead, what do we have to do today instead? – Instead, we need to talk about the suspicion of corruption, we need to talk about suspicion of official abuse and infidelity – about a suspicion that reaches the highest political, economic circles and concerns the term of office of the turquoise-blue government, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, public prosecutor's investigations, investigations, house searches, so-called cell phone chat protocols make you look deep – so deep that unfortunately it doesn't go deeper at all. That is why we – SPÖ, NEOS and Greens – have left nothing but to request this special meeting today and to hold this necessary special meeting on this subject today. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about it, we look back a few months! We all remember the headlines, your own announcements. Just a few months ago, the black and blue government celebrated itself with timps and trumpets, and with a great touch, the black and blue government knocked on its shoulders – the new style that excels coalition climate, apparently not to shake confidence in this black and blue coalition. What have we read? – ‘travel flight height reached’. I can well remember this headline, it was the one-year anniversary of the turquoise-blue Federal Government; In December 2018, in sad twain, short and strache announced the achievement of this travel altitude. However, as far as the airworthiness of this last black and blue Federal Government is concerned, we Socialists and Socialists have always had great doubts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] We have never believed in this airworthiness of the last government. Today we have been confirmed in it more than ever before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What happened a few months after this anniversary report? – The government pilot has crashed. It has crashed, and the final result has been the biggest crisis of government that has ever occurred in the history of the Second Republic in Austria, and a situation that is disastrous. [[Abg. Deimek:... for you no problem!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: What did the SPÖ do about it?]] The Ibiza coalition has done massive damage in many political areas, for example: climate protection fails; Frontal attacks against people in poverty and unemployment; a well-functioning health system, a solidary health system, a health system financed at that time simply endangered; dialogue, cooperation, which until then was the backbone of a functioning policy in Austria, the cooperation with the social partners in Austria, divided society. [[Abg. Kickl:... Spagat!]] [[Abg. Haubner: This is the wrong speech!]] – This is the political damage, that is the damage in terms of content, even in terms of which we will continue to shivel for a long time. This damage can, of course, be assessed differently depending on the political-ideological viewpoint. I already see that the colleagues of the FPÖ or the EIA have a different opinion on this political balance. [[Abg. Belakovich: Good to see you!]] We have a very clear view. In one point, ladies and gentlemen, ÖVP and FPÖ will have to give us – the SPÖ, the Greens and the NEOS – but now in this session, with regard to the fact that, shortly after the end of their so-called Ibiza Coalition, police and justice in that country had all their hands to do with investigating possible criminal activities of this government, one day after the breakup of this coalition. The fact that this situation is more than harmful to politics, society and democracy in our country is obvious. They have drawn a bad picture of politics through this process. The picture that has already drawn the Ibiza video now continues every day with public revelations of the chat protocols to casinos affair once again. The impression arises that a party's greed of power expressed in the Ibiza video should be implemented a few months later. Yes, a connection between the mere saying in a Ibiza video that was apparently filmed in 2017, and the action in a government, ladies and gentlemen, pushes itself. It was Heinz-Christian Strache who signaled this in the Ibiza video with a clear hand movement to the Casinos Austria, namely that, as it were, the neck should be cut off. This scene is described by media who saw that in the video at the time; according to these media reports, Heinz-Christian Strache says: “We are against the monopoly, we want to break this monopoly.” I quote straight. “Where we see an advantage in privatisation, we want to privatize and sell things as a state. Yes, because we determine what we sell and what we don’t.” – O-Ton Heinz-Christian Strache in Ibiza video. What's going on now? – In connection with gambling licenses, ladies and gentlemen, Strache says at least to a supposed Russian oligarchin in this video that there is also a possibility for them, for this Russian oligarchin. A few months later Heinz-Christian Strache and the FPÖ had at least this possibility for themselves and for the party. Stand firm, ladies and gentlemen, nothing could resist his personal greed for power as well as the impulses in using his cell phone. We all know the SMS Irrlaufer of the former FPÖ boss to the National Bank – you remember – who did not just go to party friends. [[Abg. Worm: Where?]] This was to be read in the newspaper; the quote of Strache in this text at the time read: “How should we have a 4th? Directors argue that if he no longer has a job?” – You know what it was about at the time: the takeover of power in the National Bank. Where are we now? – There are many chat protocols; every day it becomes more. The published protocols in the casinos affair are even going one step further now. In March 2019, a FPÖ County Council was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Casinos Austria, although a personal advisor had confirmed his lack of know-how and lack of suitability. But so that it is not enough that there should have been an offer – and that is the real significant and dramatic of this story – for a counter-business, and this suspicion of counter-business, ladies and gentlemen, is very difficult. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not the SPÖ, it is the prosecutor's office of this country that speaks of a suspicion that, in return for the appointment of a particular candidate, the party award of gambling licenses has been agreed between the controllers of a gambling firm and the officials of the Republic of Austria. Simplely formulated is the suspicion Posts for casino licenses, a serious suspicion. That is, better legal framework conditions for a particular gambling company – and better legal conditions, you know, can lead to more profits for this company – were apparently the goal of the deal from the perspective of the company. It is surprising that exactly the self-proclaimed home party FPÖ, where this suspicion is in the room, wanted to weaken a company in which the Republic of Austria is involved, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, there is also another striking question: What did the coalition partner ÖVP know? In the run-up to the post award, there were also contacts between the President of the Supervisory Board of Casag and then ÖVP Finance Minister Hartwig Löger. There were also contacts between Chancellor Gernot Blümel and Novomatic – and the other protocols also suggest this. Yes, and it should have been a conversation with Novomatic in the Federal Chancellor's Office shortly before the appointment of the FPÖ politician to the Casag Financial Board – not somewhere, ladies and gentlemen, in the Federal Chancellery! [[Abg. Kickl: Where the valley of silverstone has gone in and out!]] Is such a conversation objectionable? - No, of course not. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is the problem?]] A conversation of this kind is per se not objectionable, one can clarify it, but one is objectionable and one makes this suspicion serious and big: That is the timing, ladies and gentlemen. Every day that goes by, it raises a suspicion more and raises a question more. All of this needs to be clarified, and we will ensure that this information is made available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] How was one year ago to read? – New style, excellent coalition climate, unshakable confidence: Turquoise blue. High-ranking representatives of the government then described cooperation between ÖVP on the one hand and FPÖ on the other. In other words, a question lies more than clearly at hand: Was there such a good, trusting cooperation between ÖVP and FPÖ during the Casinos-Causa? You have the opportunity today to answer this question precisely in this debate, in this special session, namely to the extent to which your confidential coalition climate also fits with these suspicions which have occurred in recent weeks and months. However, in the context of today's special meeting and the urgent question, we hope to hear answers from the Minister of Finance of the transitional government, who is now responsible in Öbag. The Minister of Finance is the owner of the Republic and, of course, has a very special responsibility in this role. He has the supervision; his task is above all to keep himself informed about the processes in the Öbag on a regular basis. We know, therefore, that the Ministry of Finance itself must have the greatest interest in ensuring that this information is as complete as possible. That is to say, as the Finance Minister now responsible, you should be very interested in supporting us in the parliamentary education in this causa. Yes, because also against today's board of directors of Öbag, this investment company, who was still Secretary General in the Ministry of Finance at the time – for the possible counter-business – there are, as you know, investigations, these are public prosecutors' investigations. He was in very, very close contact with Novomatic at the time, according to chat protocols. At the latest – at the latest now! – should all of us be more than aware of the seriousness of the situation, for what does all of this mean: all these suspicions, this suspicion of unfaithfulness, abuse of office, bribery? – This means that the Öbag is currently practically incompetent. That's not a company, it's a state-owned venture – inability to act! What about the casinos in Austria? – They are in a truly crisis situation, ladies and gentlemen. What is the solution? – The solution can only be: merciless Enlightenment. Trust in the population can and must be built by making it clear tabulously, openly and independently. Mr Finanzminister, you are an expert at the head of the Ministry of Finance and today you have the opportunity to make your independence clear as a member of a transitional government and to make your contribution to this vital and necessary information from my point of view. [[Abg. Kickl: 94 questions is not just fair!]] In any case, we, the Parliament, will make our contribution to this. SPÖ, Greens and NEOS have – you already know – spoken out for a committee of inquiry in this causa, this step is inevitable from our point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As finally light has to be brought into the dark, this has not only earned this House, it has also deserved politics, especially the Austrians who have lost their confidence in politics, in state institutions once again. The questions that need to be resolved are as follows: Was there actually counter-actions? Which members of the government have played on this casino deal to what extent? Have they even consciously promoted, coordinated, co-organized, pulled the threads, or have they only been informed? These questions and many more need to be answered – the faster, the better. Because responsibility means not only being responsible for what you do, but also being responsible for what will fail, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, not only must legal, legal responsibility, criminal responsibility in connection with these accusations be clarified – that is what is happening, and that is good, and I have full confidence in the judicial system that it works well – but it is our duty here in the House and in Parliament and our responsibility to citizens, to investigate the political responsibility of doing so in full. We owe this to the people, the voters and the voters. In this sense: Support us with this Enlightenment! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3190	I welcome the representatives of the Federal Government, the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for the Interior. Although the answer to the 94 questions should not exceed the duration of 20 minutes, in this case it should take so long until the questions have been answered. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3217	In charge of the management of the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Today's special meeting of the National Council and the urgent request are primarily concerned with the role of the state as the owner of private-sector enterprises and in particular with the events relating to the casinos Aus-tria AG, Casag. Let me therefore introduce the following framework conditions: Under Article 18 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the entire state administration may be exercised only on the basis of the laws. According to Part 2 G of the Annex to § 2 Federal Minister of Finance, the Federal Minister of Finance is responsible for the affairs of state monopoly and federal assets. The matters of the gambling monopoly relevant here are governed by the gambling law, the affairs of Austrian Beteiligungs AG, Öbag, are governed by the ÖIAG Act. The Austrian company law applies to Öbag as well as to Casag, in particular the Stock Act, unless it is detogated by special standards. The appointment of members of the governing body of undertakings with their own legal personality, in so far as they are subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, shall be made in accordance with the rules of the Staff Regulations. It should also be noted in the opening statement that an ongoing procedure before the Central Public Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Crimes and Corruption, WKSTA, is being conducted as a case of censure at Casag. In accordance with the provisions of the Federal Ministry Act, the management of the Federal Shareholders' Rights is distributed to more than 100 companies in all Federal Ministries, with 19 participations falling within the competence of the BMF. Casinos Austria AG and its shareholders are at the heart of today's special meeting and also of media coverage in recent days and weeks; Austrian Beteiligungs AG, Öbag, holds 33.24 percent of the shares. Both companies are established in the form of a stock company. Therefore, allow me to say a few basic words on the distribution of competences among the corporate bodies of a stock company under the law of shares! The organs of a stock company are the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board and the Annual General Meeting represented by the shareholders. The responsibilities are clearly defined: First, the stock company will be in accordance with § 71 para. 1 Shares Act represented by the Executive Board, which must lead the company under its own responsibility and apply the care of an ordinary and conscientious managing director. Second, the Supervisory Board is in accordance with § 95 para. 1 Shares Act the supervisory body of the company and at the same time responsible for the appointment and appointment of the members of the Board of Directors. Third, the Annual General Meeting serves in accordance with § 102 para. 1 Share law of the Community will-building of shareholders in matters of society. It has a legally defined but relatively narrow area of competence. In particular, you are also responsible for the election and appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board. Now on the special provisions for the Öbag: With the conversion of the former Austrian Federal and Industrial Participations GmbH, in short Öbib, into Öbag on the basis of the novelle entered into force at 1.1.2019 to the ÖIAG Act, a significant change has occurred in the ownership role of the Federal Ministry of Finance. While the management of Öbib, established in the legal form of a GmbH, was subject to the instructions of the Federal Minister of Finance, according to the provisions of the GmbH Act, the Board of Directors of Öbag, which was established in the legal form of an AG, is in principle free of discretion. In contrast to Öbib, a Supervisory Board is established at Öbag in accordance with § 3 ÖIAG Act. The supervision of the Board of Directors is now – there is the share law, § 95 para. 1 Stock Act – solely responsible for this Supervisory Board. While the management of Öbib according to § 6 para. 2 of the ÖIAG Act in force at the time before the Annual General Meetings and General Meetings of the Stock Corporations had to obtain instructions from the Federal Minister for Finance as owner of voting behaviour, in contrast, there is no authority to direct the Federal Minister of Finance to the Board of Directors of Öbag regarding his voting behaviour. For certain decisions, the Board of Directors of Öbag now needs the approval of its Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board. Compared with other stock companies, Öbag is subject to a number of special provisions, which are based on its special role as the manager of federal assets and are governed by the ÖIAG Act. These include in particular those in § 6 para. 4 ÖIAG-Law standardized reporting obligations of the Executive Board to the Federal Minister and the Federal Government as well as a corresponding supervisory law of the BMF. Now on the legal situation regarding Casinos Austria AG: According to article 75 para. 1 Shares Act for the appointment of board members of Casag exclusively responsible for the Supervisory Board of the Company, which has to apply the care of an ordinary and conscientious organ member. The preparation of the selection and nomination of the Öbag representatives now present on the Casag Supervisory Board was carried out in accordance with § 4 of the ÖIAG Act in force at that time by an advisory committee consisting of four members. The Öbag as 33,24-percent shareholder of Casag also participates in the Annual General Meeting of Casag and exercises the right to vote there. Since the Republic of Austria or the Federal Ministry of Finance is not directly involved in Casinos Austria AG, it has no social competence in the appointment of Supervisory Board members or in the appointment of Board members of Casinos Austria AG. In accordance with § 31 para. 2 Glücksspielsgesetz in order to preserve his supervisory right at Casag to appoint a state commissioner and his alternate. The State Commissioner shall be invited from the Company to the Annual General Meeting, to the Supervisory Board meeting, to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and to the Committee meetings taking place. The State Commissioner monitors the regularity of the organ meetings and has to object in the event of breach of law, statutes or gambling decisions. The Supervisory Board of Casag still has so-called special legal provisions in addition to the company's stock laws, in particular the provisions of § 31b Abs. Paragraphs 7 and 7 are replaced by the following: 9 gambling law to observe. According to § 31b para. 7 Gambling Act may exercise the activity of a business manager in a concessionary only who meets the requirements listed there. The requirements include, inter alia, professional qualifications based on training and the necessary experience. In the case of a business of comparable size and business size for at least three years, the gambling law normises a professional presumption of competence. However, if this legal presumption is not carried, then according to § 31b Abs. 7 Z 3 gambling law to carry out an examination according to the criteria theoretical and practical knowledge as well as general management experience. These criteria therefore replace the three-year lead activity. In the light of the comparable provisions in the Banking Act, consideration should be given to any distribution of locations within the Board of Directors and collective suitability of the Executive Board as a whole when examining the requirements. According to § 31b para. 9 Gambling Act shall be submitted in writing to the Federal Minister of Finance for Change in the person of the Executive Director or the Executive Director or the person of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his representative, under certificate of the aforementioned requirements, within two weeks. The provision of § 31b entered into force at 31.12.2016 Gambling law is a so-called opposition or prohibition model following the appointment of the Supervisory Board, which has replaced the earlier approval model. Summary: Therefore, the appointment or appointment of a member of the Casag Board does not require any approval or approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. I shall now come to the individual questions in which I will try to sum up them in terms of content. Questions 1 to 8 and 23 and 56: I'm looking for an understanding that I can't make reviews on media reports. These refer to an ongoing and non-public investigation procedure of the ERMs and, in order not to prejudicate their results, I cannot give any answers to these questions. The state commissioners have no information about the suitability of Mr Mag by the then Federal Minister for Finance Hartwig Löger. Sidlo. He has not given any instructions, nor has he been reported on the occasion of the knowledge on the 1.2.2019, which was not known to the State Commissioner. Questions 9, 10, 17 and 18: The candidates for the Executive Board function were presented to the Supervisory Board on 19.3.2019 and the decision-making took place on 28.3.2019. The State Commissioner did not receive any instructions for the Casag Supervisory Board meeting on 28.3.2019. By the way, the legal situation in the gambling law was known at the Supervisory Board meeting. The State Commissioner or his alternate regularly reports on the organ meetings of the Casag department in the BMF, but not directly to the Federal Minister. The report by the State Commissioner on the Supervisory Board meeting on 28 March 2019 reported to the General Supervisory Council on the decisions of the Supervisory Board on the appointment of the Management Board and on the failure of the Staff Advisor's report to the General Supervisory Board. Questions 11 and 12: No, because there was no reason to do so. A concessionary is according to § 31b para. 9 gambling law requires the submission of documents that must certify the legal requirements of business managers. On questions 13, 43 and 44: On the day of the appointment by the Supervisory Board, the report of the concessionary to change the persons of the Executive Board – General Executive Board – went to the Federal Ministry of Finance. The content of the report was which persons were appointed to the Executive Board by the Supervisory Board. Question 14: The concessionary held the Federal Ministry of Finance on 18.4.2019 and the Federal Ministry of Finance on 30.4.2019, according to § 31b para. 7 gambling law provides necessary regulatory evidence to the three board members. Question 15: At the level of knowledge of 1.2.2019, reference is made to the answer to question 1. On the question 16: The documents submitted by the concessionary to the Federal Ministry of Finance and which comply with the requirements in accordance with § 31b para. 7 attesting the gambling law, were examined and taken note of. There was no evidence of deficiencies or shortcomings at that time. On question 19: I can point out that, as mentioned above, an ongoing procedure before the Central Public Prosecutor's Office for the Persecution of Economic Crimes and Corruption, WKStA, is being conducted as a case of censure at Casinos Austria AG. For this reason, I would like to understand that there is no point in being able to deliver an opinion on this matter. Questions 20 to 22: No, since the Casag fulfils the requirements laid down in the gambling law according to § 31b para. 9 gambling law has certified and at the time of examination there are no indications of defects or shortcomings. Questions 23 to 27: The doubts expressed by the media are related to the later by the concessionary in the sense of § 31b Abs. 9 Glücksspielsgesetz submitted opinions referred to in question 48. In the exercise of the supervision under the gambling law I have already given orders, the necessary review procedures within the meaning of this § 31b para. 9 gambling law. On questions 28 to 32: As already stated, no instructions were given to the State Commissioner and the State Commissioner of the BMF Department reports. Immediate reporting of the State Commissioner to the Minister for Finance has not been requested. On question 33: I have commissioned the financial procuratorship in conjunction with the opinion in question 48 with an appropriate examination. On questions 34 to 40: I have held talks with the Supervisory Board Chairman of Österreichische Beteiligungs AG, Öbag, on the current developments. In detail, I will address the answers to questions 76 and 77. With regard to internal operations, I should like to refer to questions 38 and 40 as well as to the ongoing procedure before the ERM, which is being conducted as a classified matter. In order not to presuppose these results, no further comments can be made here. Reimbursement of an advertisement is not sufficient in view of the already initiated investigations of the ERM. Of course, the Federal Ministry of Finance has fully complied with the requests for assistance from the WKStA. According to § 75 para. 1 Shares Act is solely responsible for the appointment of board members of Casag to the Supervisory Board of this company. The members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the members of the Board of Management, shall apply the care of an ordinary and conscientious organ member in the exercise of their legal activity. Since the Republic of Austria, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, is not directly involved in Casinos Austria AG, it does not receive any social competence in the appointment of board members of Casag. Question 41: I have in connection with the Board order of Mag. Sidlo did not hold talks with the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Casag. In question 42: Between 18.4. and 30.4.2019. On questions 45 and 46: I ask for understanding that I cannot provide any information on these issues on the grounds of the confidentiality, the protection of personal data and the closed procedure of the WKStA. On question 47: I have no information on this question. Question 48: The review of the opinion has not yet been completed. Otherwise, I refer to my comments on the question 33. Question 49: The transfer was made by the concessionary on 14.11.2019. Questions 50 to 52: I would ask you to understand that I cannot make any particulars at this time, since this is an ongoing examination. On questions 53 to 55: The term of office of members of the board of directors Dr. Alexander Labak, Mag. Bettina Glatz-Kremsner and Mag. ==References====External links== December 2019 end. The early termination of the Management Board's contracts by Dr. Alexander Labak and Mag. Dietmar Hoscher falls according to § 75 para. 1 last sentence Stock Act in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supervisory Board of Casag. I do not have more details – without competence. On question 56: In principle, I ask once again for an understanding that I cannot make an evaluation on media reports. These relate to an ongoing and non-public investigation procedure of the ERMs. In order not to prejudicate these results, I would like to ask once again for an understanding that I cannot give any answers on content. On questions 57 and 58: I ask for understanding that I cannot provide any information on these issues on the grounds of the confidentiality, the protection of personal data and the pending closed procedure of the WKStA. On question 59: I have not given any instructions to order a board at Casinos Austria AG. However, I am in contact with Öbag's Chairman of the Supervisory Board. I refer to the answer to questions 76 and 77. Questions 60 to 68: I have no information on these questions. On questions 69 and 71 to 75: I refer to the answer to questions 33, 34, 38 and 40. On question 70: I've heard of the transmission of the paper from the media on Sunday, 17th. November, at 2.30 p.m. On questions 76 and 77: I have held talks with the Supervisory Board Chairman of Austrian Participations AG, Öbag, on the current developments – who fully exercises his responsibility. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Öbag has reported that the Supervisory Board has commissioned an external law firm to examine the impact of current developments on Öbag. The Executive Board and its attorney have made available the procedural documents relevant for this audit. As a result of this review, it was found that there are currently no reasons for a withdrawal – gross breach of duty, inability to manage properly, loss of trust – or exemption or leave. Rather, such an action could bring economic disadvantages to the ebag. The law firm is commissioned by the Supervisory Board to report to the next Supervisory Board meeting of Öbag also in a written opinion. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board confirms that, according to his perceptions, Öbag-internal as well as in the management of Öbag's equity companies, the Executive Board's ability to act fully and therefore does not currently require any action from him. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board has also reported that the Board of Directors of Öbag and his lawyer have promised to inform Öbag's Supervisory Board on the status of proceedings on a regular basis. Öbag and its external legal representatives will keep track of developments and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board will keep the Federal Ministry of Finance informed about significant developments. Should action arise due to further developments, I will, of course, inform about it within the framework of the legal possibilities and take necessary measures to protect the financial interests of the Republic. On the question 78: The opinion sent to Parliament essentially included measures against illegal online gambling and a strengthening of the enforcement measures against illegal gambling. On the question 79: The withdrawal was thought to have been due to further calls for votes between the existing coalition partners. Questions 80 to 84: I have no information on these questions. On questions 85 to 90: The Federal Ministry of Finance is constantly evaluating the adaptation needs of legal standards. This also applies to gambling. Such evaluations are in no way related to any management orders of the concessionaries. On questions 91 to 94: These questions concern a non-public and, as already mentioned, closed investigation procedure conducted by the WKStA, whose sole assessment is that which information may be disclosed without endangering the purpose of the investigation or interference in the right to the protection of personal data. Since I am therefore not able to reply in substance on the subject matter or content of this request for assistance or the investigation measures, I am seeking understanding in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have implemented the legal basis for administrative action. However, I would like to sum up these foundations once again in order, of course, to represent the commitments, but also the limits of the possibilities of action of the Executive, the Federal Government, of the Federal Minister. The explanatory comments on the re-regulation of the Öbag in the ÖIAG Act state the following: “The owner’s influence on ÖBAG will be ensured by the appointment of the Supervisory Boards of ÖBAG by the Federal Minister for Finance. Through professional participation management, the ownership interests of the Republic of Austria in the equity companies are effectively perceived – such as Casag – “by the Board of Directors of ÖBAG and the chosen or nominated supervisory boards in the equity companies.” [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What is the strategy?! ...we don't have anything!]] “The members of ÖBAG’s Supervisory Board to be elected by the Annual General Meeting [...]” – each of them – “have the highest corporate governance standards to meet; their choice and/or Repeal shall be effected in accordance with the Stocks Act.” The first objective, defined by the ÖIAG Act and protected by the law on shares, is to: “Political independence in representing the owner interests of the federal government in strategic significant participations”. [[New call of the abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In my property as since 3. June of this year, Federal Minister of Finance, I asked the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Öbag, in the exercise of the federal ownership rights of the Federal Government, his share-law responsibility for the management and supervision of the Board of Directors in accordance with § 95 para. 1 Shares Act with regard to current developments continues to be intensive and to inform the Federal Ministry of Finance on it on a regular basis. In the exercise of the supervision under the gambling law, I have commissioned the financial attorney together with the competent department, in view of the known circumstances of the appointment of a member of the board of directors of Casag, the necessary review procedures within the meaning of § 31b para. 9 gambling law. In conclusion, I can assure you that the Federal Ministry of Finance will fully support the authorities and Parliament in informing the Causa in question. Within the framework of its responsibilities and competences, the Federal Ministry of Finance will also ensure that the competitiveness of the companies concerned is protected, that the financial interests of the Republic and thus the taxpayers are safeguarded and that there is no negative impact on the employees of these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3392	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the contributions should not last longer than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3419	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Müller, thank you very much for this reply. Although you have not answered important questions because of ongoing investigations, and for that I understand, I just think you have to translate some of your answers a little so that this is also understandable to everyone when you quote thousands of paragraphs here. [[Call the FPÖ:Oye!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] As a matter of principle, we here in the National Council decide on certain rules so that there are certain conditions; for example, to drive a car, we need a B-Führerschein. There are also rules when you want to become a bank director. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There is the FMA that checks whether someone is suitable to conduct a bank as a bank director because that requires compliance with specific requirements. And there are rules for boards of gambling companies. You yourself have said: at least three years of leadership in a company of comparable size and type of business. [[Abg. Kickl:... with monopoly!]] These are the conditions which Parliament has decided. Mr Kurz – who left the hall – has decided in the Council of Ministers that Mr Wöginger has decided to do so and so on. We have decided here that this rule exists. As Minister of Finance and before, Mr. Löger was almost a kind of police officer who monitored that this was happening. This is similar to an aircraft cockpit. There is also the rule that there is a pilot and a copilot, but both must be able to fly. Both must be able to prove – before they can get into the cockpit and fly off with the plane – that they have learned to fly this plane. In the case of gambling companies, this applies equally, and what happened is that Minister Löger obviously felt that one can fly, namely the pilot, but the copilot, Mr Sidlo, does not fly anyway, but only makes the announcements, and therefore does not have to fly. I'll tell you one thing: When I get into a plane, I assume that both can fly in front. As a parliament, we expect that when a gambling group calls someone on the board of directors, both or all three are able to follow the rules and learn what they are doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A simple look at Mr Sidlo's CV shows: He didn't learn! He never had more than ten employees, and now thousands of employees are supposed to be under him. He does not meet the legal requirements, that is at first sight. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It can be...!]] This has also been seen by Mr Rothensteiner, ÖVP-Urgestein and Supervisory Board head, for he has told the former ÖVP Minister Löger: I can't order him because he doesn't meet the conditions. The staff advisor said Sidlo did not meet the conditions. It was clear from the beginning that someone was left in the cockpit, who had lost nothing there, and Minister Löger won this and shut both eyes, in this way no one said anything. [[the speaker covers his eyes with his hands first, then his mouth and then his ears]] Of course, he has been guilty of it, of course, he is not accidentally suspected and is led as an accused person in a trial involving bribery, bribery, abuse of office and infidelity. That is rightly the case, and the absent Member may say briefly so often that he will complain to all those who claim it. He can start complaining to the corruption prosecutor's office, and that's what I'm looking at if he's doing it! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Of course, this is unpleasant if the former ÖVP Finance Minister Pröll, the ÖVP-Urgestein Rothensteiner, the former ÖVP Finance Minister Löger and the ÖVP-Man Schmid are led there as accused. This is what makes the economic and corruption prosecutorship. And there Mr Kurz can say in short, he can complain to anyone if he wants to, if this one claims it – then he is supposed to sue the economic and corruption prosecutor's office or me, I have no problem with that! I think she is doing good work and she deserves the support of Parliament and not any complaints from Members. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] A final word to Mr Schmid: What we know is that he photographs and sends secret documents on gambling, on concessions to Novomatic. These are documents, they're so secret, we don't get them all here – such a secrecy! Parliament cannot see them, but he photographs them and sends them to the head of Novomatic, the head of a gambling group! [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you yelling at?]] Four hours later there is an appointment of the owner and the head of Novomatic with the then Finance Minister Löger. What did they talk about? About the weather? – I think they talked about bets, exactly about the paper that was photographed there, and it is clear to everyone that they did not talk about the weather, but about betting. I would like to conclude by saying: If Members here say that he did not know anything about everything, although we know from chat protocols that Mr Blümel himself was involved in this deal and area deal with the FPÖ for months, I do not believe in him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3563	Mr Gerstl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3585	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Casinos Austria AG belongs to 33 percent of the Republic, which, according to the Czech Sazka Group, which has a total of 38 percent of Casinos Austria AG, is the owner with the second largest share. For years, the three main owners, the Czech Sazka Group, Novomatic and the Republic of Austria, have been in conflict. For years, the Czech Sazka Group has been trying to bring Casinos Austria AG under its control. In the past, she even had agreements with the Novomatic Group to vote against the share of Austrian taxpayers. It was about dividend distributions in favour of the Czech Republic and it was against the interests of the company. In order to make a majority proposal on the Supervisory Board for the Executive Board order, it is necessary to hold talks among shareholders. Of course, the Minister of Finance was involved in individual discussions. It was only about representing Austrian interests and finding a good solution for the company. There were three board posts to occupy. The Supervisory Board has selected three persons for this purpose. The appointment of this board by the Supervisory Board was thus an ordinary process. However, if, in the background, there have been criminal agreements and commitments by representatives of the FPÖ in any form, this must be strongly condemned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, however, is currently the task of the judicial system, and it should make its work as quickly as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger]] But one must sometimes wonder what information the light of the public sees, and that in a rule of law with a high standard such as Austria. Individual newspapers sometimes have more information about the current status as a person concerned in the procedure itself. This can easily lead to preconceptions that at the end prove to be unstoppable. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It has also been repeatedly tried to involve other persons through partially distorted representations of information and to submit to them criminally relevant acts. The EIAs and their representatives will actively cooperate to clarify the allegations raised in the course of these matters. However, the ÖVP reserves the right to take the right to be involved in criminal proceedings against anyone who underlies Sebastian Kurz, Gernot Blümel or other representatives of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We very much hope that justice will take all known facts into account accordingly. There was also a meeting of Novomatic representatives with Mayor Ludwig and City Councillor Hanke. At first, I say, the SPÖ should come first at its own door. While you are holding a business meeting in the SPÖ Centre in the morning, where you cancel more than a quarter of the staff who are not even responsible for the current state of your party, there are representatives of SPÖ in the Casag, who, in the opinion of several, were not even qualified and still claim, such as a chauffeur until 2022. Therefore, to the address of the SPÖ: Today's request from you is a clear distraction maneuver, which not only has to do with the terminations in your federal and federal party, but also should distract you from the terrible results you have received in recent months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now it is about quickly clarifying criminal charges. We very much hope that the procedure will be carried out quickly, and that all the accusations in the room will be clarified. The casinos are an important company in Austria and should be able to work quickly, because the Casag is the largest single taxpayer of 620 million euros a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3657	Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kickl is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3682	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is the actual fact substrate? What is it about today? Once we've been abstracting from all this scandalizing suffocation that you've been giving the best for many weeks, it's actually about the following: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] A free member named Sidlo is elected as the Executive Board by the responsible Supervisory Board of Casag. And now the second part is coming, what bothers you: He replaces as such a member a SPÖ board of directors named Hoscher. Well, that's all you need in the Republic, ladies and gentlemen! So banal things are often, so simple is the whole thing, and exactly in this rochade is the big problem for the left sector of this republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You just can't do that in your world. Yes, please, where do we come from when a kingdom of evil defined by you replaces one that is a real form of light of the left? If that goes on and when the school does – yes, where do we come from, ladies and gentlemen? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To stop this, press the button, and then the canonade goes off. All registers to be provided by the system shall be drawn up: anonymous ads, house searches, seizures, special sessions; Dentize, campaign, criminalize on devil-come-out! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Everything from the SPÖ? Then why does it always end up with us?- Oh, my God!]] This is the left republic you wish for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has nothing to do with what democracy really means! So, and now we're going into detail. I have already heard from Mr Krainer: Yes, yes, yes, yes, but Sidlo is not qualified at all, that is the point, and that is the problem! – And the so-called unscrupulous evidence of this is a “respect” – under quotation marks – of a staff consulting agency that comes to a little flattering outcome for Mr Sidlo. Dear comrades, but now you've missed a bit and dropped under the table. [[Abg. Easy: We are not comrades, Mr. Kickl! We're by you!]] You have forgotten that the same staff advisor has also considered your socialist light form, Mr Hoscher, who has also taken and assessed it, and the judgment can be summarized in two words: Not suitable! [[Abg. Maurer: Go! So read!]] Not suitable, ladies and gentlemen. And if I can follow the credible research of the "Kurier", then this Mr Hoscher, to whom you are so sorry, was worse qualified than Mr Sidlo, who is not supposed to have been qualified. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, ladies and gentlemen! Not suitable: This is the result with which this gentleman has been sitting for 12 years for SPÖ on the board of casinos – twelve years, not suitable! So if this gentleman has not given a piece of his competence every year, and if it is so what one must probably assume that he actually has built up a treasure of experience in the twelve years, then there is only one conclusion that is permissible, namely that in 2006, when you ordered him in a different color constellation, namely, out of a constellation of red and black, he was at least equal to or even more inappropriate than he is now in this new assessment. You have to say that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a little word game in my mind. We are no longer talking about post-chachers, but we are talking about post-chachers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't talk so bad about the Sidlo!]] But you obviously knew that this is not all right. MEP Krainer looks away. Then you have made sure that this unqualified socialist named Hoscher a kind of flash qualification – lightning qualification! – acquired. How did you do that? How do we do that? the reds and the blacks thought back then. How do we do that? – We create a new area in the casinos. That's where we blow a great sounding name on it: Legal and European Affairs. This will now be a new area in the casinos; sounds great, doesn't need anyone, nobody knows what to do in there, but we need that once, and for this new construction, we're looking for a suitable personality that happens to be this gentleman Hoscher, and then we'll pick up a title on it: Deputy General. That sounds good! He then became a deputy general, and that was the ticket to the Casag board for your SPÖ light figure. So, the title is the qualification, ladies and gentlemen. You have a lot of butter on your head when it comes to casinos and alleged non-qualification! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what I really have to confess: We can't keep up with Mr Sidlo, we don't have that. The title creates the qualification. With a general agent, we can't wait, but only with a private-sector curriculum with which you can't start anything anyway. But now, in view of this lightning qualification, I know what Mr Krainer meant when he said in the ORF: The SPÖ people are always qualified. – Well, if you work like that, that’s no wonder. But it's a fake qualification that we're dealing with here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I'm going to tell you something about this alliance, which is made up of SPÖ and Greens, and NEOS are involved: You're not talking about the facts. They're about three things: One is FPÖ-Bashing; we are already used to it. The second is a hunt for Mr. Sidlo. And the third is the attempt of an organized reputation murder on a turquoise-blue federal government, since nothing must remain positive. [[Oh, call on the Greens, as well as the SPÖ delegates.]] That's your concept, and honestly, because you don't escape to become a useful idiot of the Czech shareholders, because you're playing the game of the Czechs, who are now using this egg dance for Mr. Sidlo to move the power conditions in Casag to their benefit, and in the end the group will sit in Prague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then you would have failed!]] That's the result! That's the result! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us stay with Mr Hoscher for a bit, because he is an interesting person, because all the ingredients of socialist Bonzentum are involved: Mr Hoscher was also in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, which is the next symbol of red and black post chess and all that belongs to it. [[Abg. Loacker: That's where you'll bring your nichtskönner!]] He was there; not for long, but now I ask you one, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP: Is it possible that Mr Hoscher in the National Bank also belongs to a very elitist club, an elitist club defined by the fact that people who are chosen to leave the National Bank and go elsewhere have at the same time the incredible privilege of staying in the National Bank's Bonzenpension System, and then one day when they retire, they have a wonderful red-black Bonzenpension rest cushion for which they haven't worked in the National Bank day? [[Abg. Martin Graf: Look here!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Can that be all? Is this all red-black? Is that your achievement, or isn't that a huge cleaner? Why don't you sit down with things? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is why it is necessary to go back years to an investigation committee and look at things more closely! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Getting Now They say: But, but – but that’s all nothing, it’s about buying law, and it’s about a deal, and it’s about bribery! That's what I'm telling you. No, no, no, There's no bribery because there's no official business that belongs to it, and there's no bribery without an official business. That's so simple. This law, which you have spoken about, is not even abstract, but if you want to go looking for any traces, after a smoking Colt in law purchase, then I advise you to look into the year 2008: red-black government, Molterer in the National Council election campaign, top candidate of the ÖVP, German Chancellor – which is less relevant – but also finance ministers and as such responsible for the casinos. Well, there is among other things an event in Baden, oriented by the casino for 300 invited guests. It pays the lottery, so it pays the casino. The ÖVP makes campaign to pay casinos. Of course, there are no interests at all; that was pure charity that took place there. The only interesting thing is that the same Mr. Molterer as one of his last actions introduced a legislative initiative in the National Council, which was later decided by Red and Black, with the content: Facilitations for the lotteries and reliefs for the casinos. So if you're looking for a smoking colt in connection with law purchase, I'd take a closer look at it and focus on it. That is why it is important to look backwards. We're going to exhume a lot of things like this and a lot of pants, I can promise you. [[Abg. Lightenness: speaking time!]] Even the greens would have to look a little more closely. Yes, that's interesting! They're not fighting corruption, they're fighting corruption. They want to make the socially-painted corruption of Mr. Chorherr's state-wide saloonable. That is, I think, what you really want! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Oje-Rufe near the greens.]] It's interesting: Starting in 2005, the Greens in Vienna are fighting the small gambling game, i.e. against the Novomatic one in which their former party presidents are now on the warm oven. [[Abg. Kogler: Thank God!]] That's where you're fighting the Novomatic. At the same time, you're doing the casino business. The interesting thing is that then a corresponding donation comes from the ÖVP environment, i.e. from a holding company that owns casinos shares. To whom? – To the association of Mr. Choir. In 2010 the little gambling in Vienna is history. First the performance, then the law. There you don't need to look long, there you come once in front of your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3932	Mr Klubobmann Kogler is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3954	Mr President. As always, it is a special challenge to speak to Klubobmann Kickl, although I have to say that in some things – not with the last – he may not have been so wrong at all. [[Abg. Kickl: There too!]] Let us try to reduce the time dimensions and some coordinate systems again! How was the title of the urgent question of the Socialists, whose treatment, by the way, was possible, because we applied for the special session together? That's good and right. I'll cut the title: From Ibiza to Causa Casinos. - Well, I'll take care of it. However, it may be worth an attempt to make a general classification once what it has to do with occupations, especially if public property is tangled. It will, of course, be relevant, at least from the point of view of the public hand and in the case of Parliament and the National Council, essentially in its control function and by making laws that regulate these posts reasonably. There are, of course, special laws for certain materials such as banking or gambling, which make special standardisations, as well as the suitability of the persons to be selected. So far, so simple. First of all, a general insight: As long as there is public property – as we could now, in principle, be very philosophical and political about it, it is important enough for us; they know that we probably also have different opinions on this, for which and why public property can be important – there will necessarily also have to be post positions on the part of the public. That is logical and correct and also important. It should and must be those who now have confidence in the municipalities or in the countries or in the federal government, who are either in the legislative bodies, but above all those who govern, have confidence in those who are sent there. That makes sense. Let's imagine, we're going to -- - you should - - I don't know what this laugh is about, what intelligent thoughts you're combining with this outbreak. [[Cheerfulness of the Prince and Worm Members.]] That's not going to happen yet. However, we will come to the calls of the FPÖ to speak, which I have already heard today. This is, in any case, a point on which everyone should actually be able to understand. If one imagines that there are people sent there who do the opposite of what a government is doing, for example, in the field of infrastructure or in any operation, that can't be so. It doesn't make sense. It is therefore right and important when people are sent to trust. Austria is small. Austria has a great culture of party democracy, which is not even ironic. The fact that they then have a party book from time to time has also happened more often; let's say as it was. That alone wouldn't upset me either. But whatever should be, I think, is that the people who are sent have the appropriate minimum qualifications or are even the best qualified ones. That would be a goal. I'm moving forward with this a big goal: The whole of Causa should lead us – and we pursue this goal, even if you perhaps call it a vision – to a transparent and corruption-free Austria. That's what we should put on the flags. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At least we should take essential steps there again and again, and this leads me or follows me on the subject of Ibiza, through anti-corruption to Causa Casinos. There's a lot to it, because what's revealed was not a small thing, even if you always want to play it down. In fact, things have been announced that are obviously to be implemented if you look at the timing. It will then be very gruesome, especially when unable persons are used. For the qualification of one or the other, one may say something quietly here, because, regardless of the prosecutor's investigations, some things have been revealed that cannot be obtained away, unless the accuracy of the contents of these so-called chat protocols is doubted at all that they are still falsified. I don't know, I haven't heard that yet, so I assume that this is quite true of what we read there. So we're not supposed to take those who are not capable, I think. This once marks a difference to the general need and accuracy of post positions with people of trust. So there's once a shade, a small line between them. However, a double line should be set – and in this particular case we should at least have to do it from the point of view and from the start – if you combine business and counter-business, in an area where this will leave the legality. If this is true, what is going on or what can be interpreted – you don't need to be particularly talented now and think into the future – then it was just about how that is, by the way, true in the justification of the urgent, I think, carried out: One is supposed to create the other, which is probably intentional. There is nothing more to help if it has not been implemented, for the fulfillment of the criminal record of corruption, said salopp, is enough to want to start it. This seems to have been the case, and that is why the Causa – for which we may have different views among the political groups – is not minor. No little thing! Now to the concrete casino case: Colleague Kickl has brought some examples that some things in Austria have a certain tradition, even under red-black – okay, accepted! Do you know what's remarkable? You have to take that now! I haven't heard anything from the Burgenland, so that I can also show the blue political group a little bit. So I don't know much about red-blue in Burgenland, or I don't really know anything – maybe that's only because of my ignorance. As far as federal policy is concerned, however, there is always when the blues come to the government – and I am now referring to Black-Blue I – a certain accumulation of occupations with unable persons, a certain accumulation of illegal actions, a certain accumulation of actions with which the state should be approached. That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We're still working on it today! We have not even finished examining the processes under Black-Blue I and are still concerned with the damage measurement, damage determination and damage treatment. The Minister of the Interior, who previously had a different function, is sitting here: He knows exactly what we are talking about from his role in the financial procuratorship. The list of blue failures and misbehaviour – if I express it diplomatically – is long. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] You won't get this away. You now have the chance to go back into yourself. They obviously don't get this away. I don't know which genes it was in, that you're always on the wrong track again and again. That's simple and gripping. That is why it is likely that we will have to deal with the not very long legislative period just behind us for even longer. Parliament will then be responsible for the information. I can tell you that there is a difference with everyone else. They always call the case choir master: Yeah, please, hey! Simply set up your ethical coordinate system once! Set this up once, because there must be a difference in what money is used for. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, that's not meat!]] I can give you that. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: It's not meaty whether it's a club...! The purpose does not sanctify the means!]] Anyway, it's like this: The Enlightenment is the first step, insight is a second step and improvement is a third step. Let me tell you a small concept for the Republic. We used to have the information at this point first. You're always that way for the Christian evening country. [[towards the FPÖ]] In the Catholic expression this was said: Confession, penance, improvement. You could get in there a little bit! We have the possibilities of the committee of inquiry. We will take part in this. We have the possibility of auditing the Court of Auditors. I made a phone call with the President yesterday. Here is a 2010 report, when I was myself chairman of the committee. [[Keeping a document in height]] It's always been a subject there. We could also involve the work of the Court of Auditors to look more closely at these years in the review. The investigative committee could focus on other things in the first round, so that we do not raise each other to the toes – also in line with the corruption prosecutor’s office. But I'm absolutely in favour of us doing this. On the occasion: A 25 percent threshold for the Court of Auditors' audit right in the event of public participation is possible. That is, I think, also in the sense of the FPÖ, as I hear it. Let us see how the other political groups are positioning themselves on this. [[Abg. Kickl: Sure! Always been...!]] That's what we're going to do. Since I have to put the final sentence, I can announce to you my hope, which I associate with what these cases should produce for us: It should really be good for parliamentarianism, for education, for justice and for what we are doing about transparency in the future, so that it will be a little better in the Republic. In our opinion, it should be much better, and you can all take part in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4075	Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4097	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Yes, “Novomatic pays everyone. ” That is this sentence from the Ibiza video, which has now become something like a key point, a turning point and fishing point or, ultimately, the starting point of a discussion on party financing or possible illegal party funding, about post-chapter discussions, corruption allegations, but also about an economic crime that I am now going to talk to. You could say that this turquoise-blue Casino Royale is a political thriller or just an economic crime. He really would have an exciting act, but it is unfortunately bitter reality, in which it is not only about the property of the Republic of Austria, about the property of taxpayers, to many, many playful people, whose suffering the Republic of Austria deserves, but also about that, in my opinion, the highest good in a democracy, namely, the trust of people in politics, in politicians and parties, which is completely deeply shaken. In this politic thriller, in this crime, Casinos Austria is a kind of field where individual game figures, runners, farmers are pushed around, and, as we have already seen, also sacrificed in this game. But there is a mix of different interests that we need to take a closer look at. It's a giant slumber – but it's almost presumptuous. This mess, one might think, always happens when the state becomes economically active and thus becomes the playing ball of the influence of persons, from parties who want to gain an advantage, or possible other interests to international gambling groups. It must not be that it is a self-service shop, but at present everything looks forward to it. What is important to me in the definition or in this debate: We're talking about mail chess and corruption. Corruption is according to my definition – you can also read it – if a person or group of another person or a group – including one's own – group gives an advantage that this person or group would not have if a person were not in that position. [[Abg. Belakovich: These are two pairs of shoes!]] That's not punishable yet, and that's important now. That is, to say, we have to do with corruption anyway, because even after this definition of every post-chapter is corruption, does not mean that it is punishable. Now, however, I come to the point, which is different from in other cases, and I also come to the point that I, of course, deeply reject this Austrian folklore folklore. In this particular case, the prosecutor's office finds out because of suspicion of the abuse of office, bribery and bribery, as well as the suspicion of infidelity. That is to say, it is very likely that criminally relevant accusations come in, which is why we need to examine this even more deeply, and it is quite massively different from the usual post office chess and the usual party corruption in Austria. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Klubobmann Kickl, whom I don't see now, said it was easy. The reds rise because almost: red post chess ends, now blue post chess; according to the following: We can do whatever the SPÖ is. Aside from the fact that you've been through the country for decades and hastened to people that you, the FPÖ, control the powerful and do it quite differently, because this post-chaker is very bad, and people now see that you are always – always! – if you come to the feed trough, get very deep in it and perhaps even more chatter, but at least make it even worse – which you have to explain to your voters – it is not that easy, because – and I would like to say that again in all clarity – there are also opinions such as those of Peter Doralt, former professor of the WU, legal scientists: He was right in a guest comment, as I believe, to point out that all post-order chess is in principle illegal, and that in this particular case we have to deal with several illegalities – Mr Minister, by the way, also under the Stocks Act, because you have repeatedly stressed the legal situation. I very much regret, Mr Kogler, that the Greens seem to be drawing the sharp tooth in the criticism of the post-chacher around the negotiations. But we'll keep an eye on this. We have the suspicion of the agreements. [[Abg. Belakovich: Suspect! You're pretending to be all that...!]] It is the question – has already been discussed –: Was there a quidproquo? There is the story that one says – I don't know – Novomatic pays to a club or has an alliance with the FPÖ, and for that there is the introduction of Novomatic interests into the negotiations. [[Abg. Belakovich: This too is a suspicion! That's all conjunctiv!]] Is there any advantage in law in return? – We must look at this, because it is unbearable to people in this country and the wealth of that country if the suspicion is in the room that these agreements, some sort of quidproquo, could exist. Yes, it is urgent, because – now I come to a very relevant point – we also think it is impossible for the ÖVP, the head of government, to know nothing about this post chess around the casinos. I know you're very quick with threats of complaint, I've already gotten that. Obviously, nervousness is great, but I don't think that at a time when the message control was large – we also now read that it was about proper post chess packages, at ÖBB, Austro Control, Öbag and at the casinos as a game ball – you, the head of government, Gernot Blümel and Sebastian Kurz– forgive – of which, at least of the post positions, did not know anything. If only somewhere in one place has said the suspicion that there is still an agreement with the FPÖ and Novomatic in this Causa, then you may have taken a bit of advocacy, and that is not possible. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There is also a urgency in relation to the Öbag, which has already been mentioned. Mr Finanzminister, you have praised the great participation strategy in connection with Öbag. Where is it? – Öbag manages the assets of the Republic, important investments. We NEOS have voted against this law as the only party. Why? – There are two reasons: On the one hand, there would be an exclusive board, and before the invitation to tender that he himself has written, it would be established who will. The second reason is: Further participations are to be made in interviews. Where is the strategy? I didn't see anyone. Interesting! Now we are in the middle of the mud cell, that the sole board, which is also not so easy to cancel or suspend, because he is the sole chairman, is accused in a trial – and he was very deep inside the ÖVP, and we know that too. What we see about it: It will always be problematic if the state takes direct economic action. There is always a mussel, there are always conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, there is always this tendency to self-service and corruption, I say quite clearly. What's definitely not going on at all is that the state deserves that people who are playful get into disaster. They were able to read about a case recently – and this is not about the evil Novomatic, but about the supposedly good state casinos Austria as well as about WinWin, a daughter of Casinos Austria – that a player has played over 630,000 euros, partly sums more than 30,000 euros a day. Austrian participation! It's supposed to be so important that the state is involved, because then there's a player protection. – There is no such thing! Where's the player protection? It can't be that the task of protecting the player, i.e. the control, the supervision, is in the hand of the owner's representative! That is, the authority that has an interest in the fact that there are as many playful people as possible to make the company work well should at the same time control the activity! Is that all right? - Probably not, and we've seen that. [[Abg. Belakovich: What proposal do you have?]] Now I am coming to the conclusion – I know, my colleagues are looking – of the economic crisis. Mr Klubobmann Kickl rightly pointed out that this is, of course, a game ball of different interests. Yes, here are the Czechs with the Sazka group who are of course interested. One reads from planned stock exchanges et cetera, where consolidations and therefore more influence are desired in Casag. Of course, we also look closely at that, but at this point you can see what happens to a mess when not suitable persons are put down. It is not the problem that you can now turn to the Members who are supposed to be doing the business of Sazka here, if we ask for information on this, but the problem is that you have put up with unable persons there and have obviously entered into this great international casino Royale as BMF, and this must also be an end. It's not a blue scandal, it's a turquoise blue scandal. We'll figure out what Sebastian Kurz, Gernot Blümel knew. A committee of inquiry is inevitable, it will also come. But it's too little – and I'm right for Werner Kogler to point out the mistakes with my finger. We need to look forward and make it better. That is why we need at last a package of transparency and anticorruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4198	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4219	Mr President, you have let Werner Kogler and Beate Meinl-Reisinger talk about a mud-sprayed speaker's mouth after Herbert Kickl spoke before. If you inject so much dirt around, it can happen that it goes into your own eyes too; for example, in the question of whether the order of the mag. [[Abg. Stefan: You have a glasses on, don't you?]] Hoscher would have been a sinister work of red and black. I'm all confused now. I fought as an opposition member in 2006 against Wolfgang Schüssel and Karl-Heinz Grasser vehement. If I had known that there were any socios who would have made any favors, I might not have acted so decisively against them! – No, it was Black-Blue I at that time. [[Abg. Easy: Listen, listen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Now he's gone a little bit, Herbert Kickl. Is he washing hands? He's supposed to stay there with these things he's triggered. – That’s only on the verge of allegations, but the method is clear. We are facing one of the most serious corruption scandals that we have in the Second Republic, and the attempt of those concerned is to raise as much as possible over long, long periods of time so that we do not have a clear view of it. [[Abg. Martin Graf:... is already over!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Bawag!]] And because I hear so nice calls from the ranks of the ÖVP: Is the honourable Member aware of what is going on? From seven ÖVP finance ministers of the last 20 years, starting from the taken over Karl-Heinz Grasser to the last Hartwig Löger, three are now led as accused. [[Abg. Hoefinger: But not...!]] One has been employed in the criminal court for two years, together with a former Secretary-General of the FPÖ, and two have now been added. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Is that not a condition in which the Austrian People's Party's Party's Group, which has also become larger, should urgently choose to clarify and eliminate, instead of further demanding a Committee of Historians to clarify the occupations since 1945? – Yes, we can do, is interesting for the children, for everyone. We can start with the Krauland scandal, wonderful. But we now have a criminal case here, which is not to be underestimated in its significance: Purchase of law in pure culture with the participation of essential persons in the whole turquoise-blue government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] – You can be very quiet about this question. I'll start with those you're just going over. Mr Finanzminister, you have to answer the question - by the way, I am sorry for you that you are faced with 94 critical questions concerning your predecessor, but one thing is clear: You are in an unpleasant position as long as no new government is formed here to fulfil all your obligations. You have told us that Mr. Thomas Schmid's appointment is not possible, because it is a stock company, with certain reasons. One of them you have included, namely the lack of confidence of the Annual General Meeting. My question is therefore: How much confidence can one have in a person who, as sole executive, has passed on documents about a competitor warm in their capacity as an official – Mr. Krainer has explained this before – who obviously conducts intensive negotiations with other post-chakers? The fact that this person was once Chief of Cabinet at Karl-Heinz Grasser, at Schelling and even, as I read here, at Spindelegger is not a reason for the confidence of the Annual General Meeting. In the interests of an administration, you, Mr. Federal Minister, would be the person to convene a general meeting of the Öbag. To confirm this procedure, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to point out briefly – I know that my speaking time is over – that: In fact, in Ibiza all the essential things have been discussed with the supposed oligarch née. If you look at the timeline now – from the Casag affair here, where H.-C. Just announce exactly what happens then, about the participation in the “Krone”, Zack, Zack, on the FMA template, which, Mr. Fuchs, has been sent by you in collaboration with Hartwig Löger; sometimes I feel like I would like a 3D camera and look a little further in the video to see if he was not sitting around the corner and has already written very well so that one could do it together – that's like listening in Palermo to hear the business policy of the nice family next year. It comes out piece by piece, the prosecutor's office is on it, and you'll have to take political responsibility there. There it will not help Herbert Kickl, who even mess up the years, to make any accusations. [[Abg. Belakovich: It was 2008! SPÖ...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] We will have to deal with this on behalf of the electorate and you too, Mrs Colleague, will have to acknowledge it. – Thank you very much, I am looking forward to the Enlightenment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: We don't need a trial! Mr Matznetter has assessed all of this.]] [[14:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4452	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Fürlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4476	High Bureau! Dear Members of the Federal Government! The debate on the occupation of positions in close-to-state establishments or participations is one that is quite old. I keep it with the clubman of the Green Werner Kogler, who says: Of course, it is the right of a democratically legitimate government to occupy such positions as are relevant to the state, including those of trustees who are appropriate. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Supervisory Boards from me, but not Boards! Sorry!]] However, the fact that the Social Democratic Party is at the forefront of this discussion here and today does not deny a certain pikanery, since one knows how the history of the state-owned industry, the state-based enterprises and participations were particularly at the end of the 1990s, but of course also between 2006 and the following years. The only difference to the time is: The Social Democrats never needed a staff advisor, who simply said: He'll be all right! – In this respect, we have already made great progress. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, believe that what has been done there is a sin, then I can only oppose you with the statement: Whoever of you is without sin, throw the first stone. – That you threw him, I think, is an elegant action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what makes me much more concerned, however, is how in this Republic the rights of accused people are dealt with. [[Abg. Schrangl: Right!]] That's something we have to deal with. If that's the case, it's 12th. November Home searches take place and on 17.11., before the defendant is presented the results for the statement and justification, is in a daily newspaper, which is file content, then this is such a hard violation of the fundamental rights of an accused in a procedure that is drawn in handcuffs and on the necklace through the Colosseum and the Circus Maximus of the media and politics, sacrificed and publicly executed, or without an opportunity to resist. [[Call the FPÖ:Is gscheit!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This contradicts all that the Article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights recognises every accused person in this country – and I emphasize: everyone. Late, but still the justice also reacts: She says she wants to turn this off and look for the leak. This is because I believe that it has been very practical in the last ten, 15 years, that it has been quoted from procedural acts, yes, Cabarets have become out of it and the accused have no chance to defend themselves – and I also want to say this quite clearly in the direction of newspapers and media. [[Abg. Loacker: With some cabarets, the accused themselves are guilty!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Well, just like that!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ: Not sure!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Human Rights has a very clear meaning in this regard: Switzerland has condemned a journalist for exactly such publications, and this has been held before the Court of Human Rights. I can only sum up a few sentences from the explanatory statement: In principle, the rights protected under Article 6 and Article 10 of the ECHR deserve equal respect, but with regard to what is at stake in criminal proceedings, it is legitimate to provide special protection for the confidentiality of judicial documents. The State has both a positive and a negative obligation to respect the accused's private and family life. It must not only disclose protected information, according to the EGMR, but must also set out measures for effective protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good piece of work in front of us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] To support this piece of work, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish by saying something. – I am also saying this in your direction, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, because you, too, are only acting here with unproven suspicions. I do not think that you are right in this form because you do not have any evidence of what you claim here. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Why?]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You will not judge what is due to me! Many people are worried about this...!]] – I judge this from here. Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, you can then speak again. I do not think that you have said anything but plumsy again, and I do not think it is for you. That's what I'm standing for! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The fundamental right of innocence, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, is an indivisible one, and the problem is that this right is apparently not completely indivisible from your lip confessions. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Where did I hurt it?]] It does not apply to one person, but to the other, and that cannot be! Everyone in this country has a right to a fair trial, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Where did I hurt it?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government, as it always looks, will have to deal with this problem of inhumane prejudice with the judicial administration and ensure a procedure worthy of a public, good rule of law. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Where would I have hurt it?]] That's not it right now. As it goes, it is a shame to the rule of law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Support justice instead of constantly making it bad and starve!]] [[14:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4776	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4800	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, especially in front of the screens and here in the hall! There is today a special meeting due to political occupation on the one hand and because of the suspicion of corruption on the other. We will not be able to clarify the suspicion of corruption here today, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, even if you think you can make judgments here. There's a suspicion; let's put this to justice, let's clear this up to the prosecutor's office! What really remains at the end of the day, we'll see. Let me tell you from this point of view: The leadership of the Freedom Party has and has not had a deal with the Novomatic. No single cent of Novomatic has been found to be flown to the FPÖ. Everything else is supposed to clear the courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But now on the subject that stands in the room, namely the political occupation of posts: This political occupation has existed in the Republic since 1945, then in a two-party system in which Red and Black split up Austria. It has also been a performance of the FPÖ to break up this dual system of power, a long time ago. If there are more parties, this also means that other parties will also be in office, ladies and gentlemen. The Greens are also not excluded from the scope of supervision councils in all the federal states in which they are involved in the government. All this is Usus in Austria. You can find that well or you can find it bad. But the fact that SPÖ is doing this is particularly exciting, especially when SPÖ's party chairman came here and said that it was not really an interesting issue, it would rather discuss unemployment or climate protection. [[Abg. Kassinger: Why doesn't she do it?]] Yes, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, why did you make a urgent request on this non-theme? In fact, this issue is not an issue for a special session, because it is not full of evenings, ladies and gentlemen. It's just about adapting a free candidate – that's what happened. It happened that in one and a half years' government participation of the Freedom Party a candidate was sent to the Casag. By the way, Mr Sidlo, unlike Mr Krainer, has a CV which can be seen very well, because, Mr Krainer, you have probably only seen the universities from outside and passing by. Mr Sidlo graduated, Mr Sidlo worked at the FMA, and Mr Sidlo also cut off better than your Mr Hoscher in the evaluation of staff consulting. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] - So much for it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the fact that the SPÖ is so prominent on the subject of political occupation is that, as my previous speaker said, it is really not going to be a problem for pikanery. Let us look where the SPÖ's system of power is still in order, where it is consistently in the government, namely, Vienna! Let's see what's going on there: All nearby businesses are occupied with SPÖ politicians. There is a game to privatize tax money to put it in the pockets of comrades. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's money for a pedestrian officer, money for a school blackman, money for a university officer without a certificate of service! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] This is, in fact, a political occupation and a political post for comrades who cannot otherwise be accommodated, ladies and gentlemen. But there are still quite different in Vienna, as all those who know that have followed this a little bit: In Vienna, the Nord Hospital was built, and by the way, it is a billion debacle that the SPÖ city government is responsible for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] The competent councillor Wehsely is exactly the city councillor who then left himself in time, namely to Siemens. That's an exciting story. She is now at Siemens Healthcare and as a city councillor she was responsible for the negotiations with Siemens – Siemens was the main supplier for the Nord Hospital. The question is as follows: Hasn't Mrs. Wehsely been negotiating with her current job? We would then again be on the subject of corruption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz:...! Take it back!]] But there is obviously no interest in this in Vienna – and then there is great silence at the SPÖ. [[New call of the abg. Yılmaz.]] Another successful Vienna City Councillor was Financial City Councillor Brauner: Mrs Brauner, who brought Vienna to the edge of the financial fiasco. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Breathe!]] Vienna is highly indebted, can't afford anything more – 15 billion euros of debt has this city – and what did the woman city councilwoman do when she had to stop? – She became Commissioner for General Affairs. The only thing is a chuzpe. But not only that she has become commissioner for general care, she is currently using an office near the town hall, which is financed by the Vienna Holding, namely the Vienna Holding, which she had just been subject to: On the day before she obtained this office, she was still a financial city councillor and awarded orders to the Vienna Holding. There is already the question: Did she tell the order that she get this office? That would also be classical corruption, but, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to hear from the SPÖ, there it remains quiet in the SPÖ! That's all right, because when it comes to comrades, corruption doesn't matter at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Corruption and post-chacher, that goes even further in Vienna: Look at the current city government! There is financial city councilman Hanke; he was previously in Vienna Holding, now he is because he has a red party book and because he is such a good party, Finanzstadtrat. He should investigate everything that has happened in the last years in Vienna Holding – so he examines himself. The same thing in the social field: The Social City Council was previously head of the Social Fund Vienna – and there is much in the arrogance, we know. Who's to make this clear? Mr. Hacker? – Well, Mr. Hacker will not shake himself and defile himself! What you're doing here in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, is post chess in pure culture. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we could continue the story, also at the federal level. There was such a very big top manager: He was very experienced, he studied journalism. – First he was an employee in the SPÖ club, and because he was so good, he then came into the league. There he was also so good, he then came to the board. Coming from the union – you don't know now, because of what qualification – he then became the board of directors of the ÖBB. Because he was so great there – no one knows why, he simply begs at the Federal Government that the fundings rise – he has become SPÖ Federal Chancellor because you thought he was a top manager. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] You've seen what he's done out of SPÖ. These are your qualified people. You should think about whether they really are all so qualified! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or look at the SPÖ people in Casag! Dr. Peter Erlacher: He was previously in the Ministry of Finance, issued gambling decisions there, and in 2006 he suddenly got into the Casag with 250 000 euros a year. – What qualification has he been able to prove? Also at Mr. Markus Eder – with around 175 000 euros a year in the head of the department in Casag – the question arises: Where's the qualification? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] So stop throwing around! You have so much dirt and so much butter on your head, once you start cleaning up in your own rows, start to clear up the corruption in the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] You'll have a lot to do in the next few months. I believe that these are topics for a committee of inquiry – both at the federal level and at the national level, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4963	Mrs Tomaselli is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4984	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the casino, the bank always wins. This old ambiguity should really scare us politicians – and it should not only be today, but every day. If, at the end of the day, the casino always wins, then on the other hand, there are a lot of losers, and these losers are the players. This is not only because they are brought to their money in a bad way, no, tens of thousands are being driven into addiction and thus into one of the greatest personal disasters. Gambling is a social-political loss-free game. This has to be said in this debate today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, the casino wins, which means that we also lose as a state. Now, some colleague will say: Well, well, that's not how it is! There are millions of revenues. - Yeah, that's clear. If you look at gambling with machines, you'll find that there's a lot of play money coming together for the countries and communities – but if you think so, the predicate is cynical. On the one hand, it allows apprentices to get the money out of their pocket when they throw everything in the machines in just a few hours, and on the other hand, they are still looking forward to such a business. Ladies and gentlemen, this is negligent looking away. Some will now think: Why is Mrs Tomaselli even talking about gambling and gambling in a post-chacker debate? – Because we just think it’s no coincidence that in connection with gambling, it’s coming to light that there have been curvy games again. In fact, one should say: already again. We have a problem in the system: The gambling is a billion-dollar business at the expense of the players. Policy can only increase this billion-dollar business by one billions with the award of a license. However, winnings mean millions of payments as basket money for politicians. – Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not resolve this conflict of interest, it will always come to light in politics about gambling. The only difference is: Some are more vulnerable than others – and I am looking at you very carefully from the individual party, ladies and gentlemen. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] However, we politicians have to take responsibility for getting the game search under control. Do we want revenue in millions of amounts in conjunction with simultaneous huge expenditure on therapy or do we want real player protection? At the end of the day, a decision on this issue will be taken. If we want real player protection, then the game has to be reduced to a minimum. – There is no one together. At this point I also have to say: It is also insignificant that the revenues from gambling flow back to the general public to a large extent. Yes, we know that! The revenues finance numerous projects in the field of social, cultural and sport, but in conjunction with the sponsoring is the pure image care for the gambling industry – and for politics this is nothing but disposal trading. That doesn't make it any better in the core. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No matter who is sitting in the next Federal Government – in this respect, I am right for Clubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger, we must also look to the future – she will have to be measured whether she is getting hold of this conflict of interest together with the countries and whether player protection in Austria is no longer just an empty word aid. This includes, for example, the creation of an independent gambling authority with effective control, massive restrictions on values so that the desire to play doesn't arise at all, stricter penalties and enough treatment places for addicts. It is the task of policy to protect the common good. The excessive playwright means misery, we can't look away. We politicians must assume responsibility for the population and for the players so that at the end of the day not only wins the casino. In addition to pushing back gambling, however, we are of course concerned about pushing back the mail chess at least the same level. That's why I'm bringing Today, an application covering essentially the following four points: In Öbag, the objective criteria for the appointment of Supervisory Boards should also apply to the Executive Board and the Management Board. The Minister of Finance shall report regularly to the National Council on compliance with these criteria. Failure to comply with the requirements is sanctioned, and a very important fourth point is: The work contracts of the institutions are to be linked to the actual duration of the function exercise in the future – this would save the budget in particular, because we could then save ourselves the amount of compensation after any change of government. We hope for your support, and with this I will submit the proposal: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[15:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5196	Thank you. – The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation; because it has not been distributed, it has been read. Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5220	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I am directly grateful for the speech by Mr Kickl, because he has really explained one thing: that Postenschacher is actually folklore in Austria. Post chess is one of ours. Yeah, you could almost say, Postenschacher is now applying for the status as a World Heritage Site. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Otherwise, you can't titulate it if you point out: We weren't ready before, that was the SPÖ and the ÖVP. That was also our part, and a bitel it was the greens. – That can’t be it, my rulers, it can’t be in this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That is what causes the Austrians to become politically shattered. This leaves people in front of the screens politically threatened if they have to think: In this country you only become something if you know someone, and not if you can do something. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is a fundamental issue that concerns us in the post office, in this corruption – as I call it –. Corruption is the irrigation of existing swamps. It is about the fact that this poster is finally cleared out. Dear Werner Kogler, yes, you can say: That's the task of the trustees, but I disagree with you very clearly. Government ownership is far from that. This is the property of citizens, taxpayers and taxpayers. This includes transparency, one of which is a clarification of the past and a clear plan for how hearings can take place, namely that we find the best people for this state property, and not those who only know and cannot. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kogler.]] Then we are clearly also dealing with the tasks of the ÖVP. This ÖVP has been making, could almost be said, the Minister of Finance since 2000. These are about 7 300 days; 7 300 days, on which the Minister of Finance is also responsible for which state ownership he is as occupied. That was also a point of Turquoise-Blue that occupied me, namely: If you have a Finance Minister – and ever since I've been in politics, I've had more and more financial audits – when you address this and ask: Why is that so?, and if every coffee deposit is discovered when every bean is researched in the financial audit, if the employees actually don't deserve any more, and still cost too much, if there is no discharge, then ask themselves: Is that how to deal with state property? Do you deal with my tax money, with tax money that the entrepreneur has to pay again and again, month after month? Is the responsibility of ÖVP and FPÖ? Is the responsibility with a corresponding also responsible positioning regarding Casinos Austria AG? As far as Casinos Austria AG is concerned, I may object: Yes, we have a Sidlo. He's a chess figure, maybe an apprentice. We have the flaneur of the race route, Mr. Hoscher, which was paid at least EUR 1.2 million in 2018. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] There you have to mention: 1.2 million euros of pay for 5 million dividends from Casag – this comparison must be broken on the tongue. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That, I think, is the pigry, and that's what everyone is talking about: The Casag was the handcuff of the three parties. – There needs transparency, all these issues are illuminated, and a committee of inquiry needs to be set up. However, this Committee of Inquiry may not only be entrusted with the Causa Casag, but must also deal with two other persons. These cases must also be examined, and I call them: Thomas Schmid and Harald Mahrer. When it comes to Thomas Schmid, you have to break that on the tongue. There has been one, the Secretary-General in the Ministry of Finance, who has sometimes written his invitation to tender himself. He even freezed her so much that you can't take another one. In the meantime, as Secretary-General, he is rewriting the law for the Öbag. That's amazing. He also writes how many supervisory posts you can occupy, how much reward you can get. All of this is done under the hand of the ÖVP, under the direction of the ÖVP. – This is basically a scandal. I believe that this also needs to be illuminated, as it happened, who used it. Perhaps Mr. Schmid has even committed himself without the German Chancellor knowing – that may be – but there may also be ropes that need to be illuminated. Then I'll come to Harald Mahrer. I don't know if you notice – I'm just asking you the question: How can the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who is also responsible for the interests of the Chamber of Commerce, in the case of banks in the Chamber of Commerce, and who is at the same time still conducting the government negotiations in the field of economics, be appointed as the chief supervisor of the central bank, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank? How's it going? Where's a compatibility? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There's a clear inconsistency. Let us no longer complain about Trump and his incompatibility as long as we tolerate it! I have much to say about the inconsistencies of Mr Rothensteiner, but one thing I would like to say to you: Dear ÖVP, you once proclaimed or in an election campaign pointed out that your Sebastian was short: “One who looks at our values.” – Are your values post-achers and party-political occupations or are your values to relieve citizens? That's not how it works with your party political occupation. Nor does a discharge work for citizens, for taxpayers, if you throw the money out of the window or light it in the oven and at the same time do not create a discharge. Therefore, it is the paint must test for the ÖVP and the paint must test for the greens, how high their pH value increases when dealing with this problem. We will measure you by this because we are the ones who have no past in this respect. [[Abg. Zarits: And no future!]] We will never play a role as perpetrators because we are concerned with transparency. Look at Salzburg! As a national government party, we also have many members in supervisory councils in Salzburg. There are socios inside, there are greens inside, there are NEOS inside, and they are all ordered because they can do something, and not because they know someone.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5302	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5326	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the screens! Never before, through a political personal deal, as many high-ranking people have been in the public prosecutor's office as they have at the casinos deal. The former turquoise-blue government has done this and is thus damaging the reputation of the Republic, the credibility of politics, the reputation of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many newly elected Members here in this Parliament. How do we get to be shaken, to be accused, to let ourselves be insulted with dirt, always according to the motto: Something's already hanging on everyone!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Hauser: What about the Dornauer in Tyrol?]] We are trying to make honest and transparent policies for people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is identified against former Federal Ministers, a State Secretary, other former top politicians, Supervisory Board chairmen and deputys, top managers and super-richs suspected of having committed crimes. What a joy for our justice, ladies and gentlemen! It is no less than the suspicion of infidelity, the abuse of office, possibly also the incitement to the abuse of office. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Suspect! Suspected, not condemnation!]] Perhaps the prosecutor also examines the attempt of incitement to official abuse; very nice, all kinds of criminal offences. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: The presumption of innocence is true!]] It's about bribery or bribery, so there's no harmless stories, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wöginger: Is it about bribery?]] We know that the economic and corruption prosecutor's office is not easily examining such serious suspicions and is thus taking dramatic measures and steps such as house searches and mobile phone evaluations. [[Abg. Nehammer:... suspicions!]] There must already be serious suspicions, even if, of course, the suspicion of innocence applies to all. The question arises whether all of these activities of the suspects have been done only because, according to staff advisors, a FPÖler had to get a top job for this function. [[Abg. Belakovich: “It’s a question of whether the “activities of the suspects ” -!]] Or might the staffing have had to do with the award of gambling licenses? [[Abg. Belakovich: Where? Where is the law on this? Where will that have been decided?]] Whether criminal offences actually exist will be examined by the public prosecutor's authorities and will, in any case, be clarified by courts. It is important that the corruption prosecution can work completely unimpeded. [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you talking about? Did you decide in the last GP? Did you actually know what you decided? That's a disaster! You're a Member of Parliament! You need to know that there is no such thing!]] There are no threats of complaint here in this Parliament, if I may ask! The prosecutors, the courts, our independent, inimmaterial justice are a pillar of democracy. - Respect that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Those who want to take them to the kandare make a big mistake. This happens, for example, when you shorten the financial resources: Fewer staff means longer procedures. [[Abg. Hörl: The SPÖ...!]] Fewer personnel mean less justice in this country, less security in that country. I have great confidence in our justice and justice ministers, who are currently an independent one. But what comes after him, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. No reds!]] I would therefore like to take up a long-standing demand from SPÖ and plead for an independent state attorney, who is the leader of the state authorities. One thing is certain: We cannot go into the agenda in the face of such serious accusations. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am convinced that when we make appropriate resources available, justice will find its way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] This is not a good witness to the political agents. We need to strengthen justice. However, because there are very serious concerns about Mr Peter Sidlo in the room, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] [[15:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5669	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr August Wöginger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5697	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is time to make a political assessment of today's special sitting and today's overall situation. It has been flying here for two hours accusations, accusations and accusations of all kinds, to the accusation of bribery, through space. Ladies and gentlemen! One can say that there is today a special meeting of SPÖ in which it is about the post award at Casinos Austria AG. I say it's a distraction maneuver of SPÖ from its own problems that it's piled up. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mrs Yildirim from Tyrol, it is all that you are putting on our heads here. I give you a good advice: Go to your party officer Dornauer! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Go to Dornauer and apply only 3 minutes of this mission, which you have just shown here, for your own state party observer in Tyrol, who has stopped with a loaded hunting gun in open Porsche at the airport! [[Abg. Yildirim: (delighted)... eh! I'll do it.]] My dear Mrs. Yildirim, that's not how it is! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Whoever sits in the glass house, it was not supposed to throw stones. [[Abg. Stäger: Then don't do it!]] Now we have heard a lot about Casinos Austria AG, including Mr Hoscher, but, Mrs Rendi-Wagner: This morning, 27 employees of the SPÖ party headquarters were terminated in the Löwelstraße, and in the afternoon you will be there and try to distract and scandalize. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Becher, Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Rendi-Wagner]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is not worthy of a former employee party – and not even the SPÖ. This is scandalous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Address to Mr Schellhorn: Dear Joseph, I can't tell you exactly how the pH value is, I only know the values of the Styrian country election from Sunday, and they were more than okay with us. [[Abg. Mein-Risinger: PH?]] But I also congratulate you on moving in. You are as strong as the Communists in Styria – all the best! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is the result of the ÖVP government! ... that the Liberals...!]] But now again on the matter and on this urgent request for appointment of a Chief Financial Officer in Casag [[New call for tender Meinl-Reisinger]] Everything is tried to make a mosquito an elephant out of a mosquito, to tear it out somewhere, because the voters do not listen to the calls from the bottom; therefore, you simply have to try everything to distract you from your own disaster at the end of the day. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It was a common process: Three board members were to be occupied by the Supervisory Board. It was about drawing up a majority proposal by the three owners. The Republic of Austria also holds 33 percent. And what was the then Minister of Finance? – The property representative of the Republic of Austria! He acted according to best knowledge and conscience, because that was also his task. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] In particular, in this constellation, which has been disputed for years, the former Minister of Finance has just tried – that is why he was involved in discussions – to make a joint proposal at the end of the day. What can be scandalized, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot explain! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We say quite clearly: If there have been agreements or promises in any form in the background, then of course this is to be condemned to the sharpest, that is no question at all. At present, it is the duty of the judicial system – and one should leave it there now – to clarify the final as soon as possible. Please refrain from these prejudgments! We are living today in times when, if any newspaper presents a suspicion in space, we are here even faster with the pre-conceptions and with the accusations to the accusation of bridleness. [[Abg. Honey: Like Sebastian Kurz...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good policy style. People don't understand that either. We have independent justice. We live in Austria in a rule of law, which also works, and that is why independent justice should be able to work at the end of the day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, however, it is already interesting how some information, and that of us in Austria, will come to the public at the end of the day. The newspapers often have more information than the people concerned or the accused themselves – in an ongoing procedure. There are more and more pre-conceptions that appear to be unstoppable at the end of the day, and it is always tried to bring further persons into the situation and to submit to them, at the end of the day, criminally relevant acts. Yes, Mr Krainer, we reserve the right to take the right to take the course of action if, over and over again, such precepts are made against representatives of the People's Party. In fact, it cannot be that this species becomes, so to speak, a use in Austria. – We strongly reject that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We stand for complete clarification and transparency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Yes, Mr Matznetter, I will come to your group again. [[Abg. Matznetter:... Willi Molterer!]] Justice should take all the facts into account, including this meeting of Novomatic representatives with Mayor Ludwig and City Councillor Hanke. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We are in favour of comprehensive information, there must be full transparency, but everything must be taken into account, including these meetings. Finally, to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have put this urgent question here in Parliament today: Go in and think about it. You will have your moral condition, your personal state and also your financial condition! This is none of our business, but if a working party – where the trade union representatives are going to demonstrate immediately everywhere, if a social plan is created somewhere in the private sector – is nothing to me today, nothing is going to throw out 27 employees from their party headquarters, then you will come at your own door! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's right, but nothing at all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Abg. Kollross: How high are the debt of the ÖVP?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5950	Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5971	Madam President. Minister! High house! Maybe in advance sent to the SPÖ: After the severe storms of last week in some regions – and I come from such a region – it would certainly have failed 100 times if we had taken hands on pickles and shovels today and helped people to transport the mud out of the houses when here in Parliament to stage a political mud battle. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Don't bother anyone!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] But since transparency is so important to you, I would like to make a request at the beginning of my speech on the competence of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is currently allowed to examine companies only from 50 percent of the State's participation. I therefore make a request that the Court of Auditors should be given the opportunity to examine participation from 25 percent in the future: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that, as transparency is so important to you, you agree. But now on today's topic of post-achers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] This is probably the staircase of the year that the SPÖ is making the post chess player the theme of today's special meeting. You, dear comrades, are probably the symbol of party book economy, and if you really understand something about an economy, then it is the party book economy. Up to the smallest workers and employees was the party book of entry to the job, whether it was the union, the Kelag, the railway, wherever – the party book was the entry for the job. Did something change in the SPÖ? - No, I don't. Since 2013, the Red Head of State has ruled in Carinthia, Kaiser and your deputy, occupied with his political associates from the ÖVP every post he can only occupy, according to the motto: [[towards SPÖ]] Kärntner Land in red! – The noise of power knows no limits; from his office manager, who was made head of the Kabeg, to the board of directors in the state companies to the public service. The list would be so long, we needed our own special meeting so that we could finish it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can't keep a case from you, because it's really great, in view of what's been happening here: ==References== On March 1, 2018, the office for the educational director in Carinthia will be appointed. There are three candidates, one of them being a woman. ==References== The SPÖ-Man Klinglmair is presented as the new educational director on July 20, 2018. Mr. Landeshaupt Kaiser gave a press conference and said that all three were highly suited, but he made the decision very difficult, not easy. – Mr Klinglmair, of course, got the job. As has been done, it shows or confirms to us that two months before, Mr. Landtagsreiter Leykam, a member of the Constitutional Committee, was apparently far removed and called Mr. Klinglmair, the future education director, as an information person. – This is the objective positioning of the SPÖ in Carinthia. This poster then ends up in the Federal Chancellery in front of the Equal Treatment Commission. The Equal Treatment Commission in the Federal Chancellery notes: ‘The occupation of the function ‘Head of the Education Directorate of Carinthia’ with power. Dr. Robert Klinglmair constitutes a violation of the women’s promotion order according to § 11 B-GlBG.” – Well, officially confirmed breach of law, Mr. Kaiser occupied a man instead of a woman. [[Abg. Lighten: (in the direction of FPÖ) Go, clap, please!]] Where's your party's feminists going? [[Abg. Lightness: (in the direction of FPÖ) Once, please!]] Where is the cry, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that a woman who is better qualified than Mr Klinglmair does not get the job? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Easy: Yes, at last!]] Where's the call from our press? Where's the call from the ORF? - There isn't. It's all right, it's a red one. Mr Fässmann's attempts to justify this and also Mr Klinglmair's request are considered absurd by the Equal Treatment Commission. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] But it's getting even thicker. It is also noted that Mr Klinglmair did not even have the qualification: Furthermore, the legal requirement “Knowledge in the implementation of budgetary law and knowledge related to personnel management, controlling and administrative processes” was not met, as Mag. [[Abg. Lightness: Are we doing a reading exercise?]] Klinglmair as a scientific assistant was not concerned with the field of execution and did not explain any relevant knowledge. [[Abg. Lightenness: So for a reading exercise this is not good!]] “The fact that Mag. Despite the failure to comply with legal requirements, Dr. Klinglmair was nevertheless allowed to hear, according to the Senate, it is already an indication of an objectively unwarranted preference for the applicant.” [[Abg. Lightenness: The time would also be...!]] Summary: When it comes to red-black post chess, laws may be broken, women's rights are trampled with feet, not the qualification – the main thing, it's a red or a black one. A Latin proverb applies to all the others in this country: Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi – what Jupiter is allowed, the ox is not allowed yet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That wasn't a good speech!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Not for Carinthia!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[15:27]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6228	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr David Stögmüller is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6256	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What the show is actually presented to us here today is really quite amazing. I have already thought of it in the Kickl speech – to fall into the victim role – and I'm almost out of my mind. As Mr Kickl put himself there as a victim is already incredible, and pointing to the others with his finger is already a symbol of where the FPÖ is now standing. Quite honestly, however, my compassion for the FPÖ is very limited, and I also ask myself the question all the time: Why, then, does the FPÖ even get into this fragile situation, even in this situation, to stand here today? [[Abg. Worm: Because the SPÖ...!]] One can now very well or badly say that one can discuss this, but why does the FPÖ have to speak and answer after such a post occupation at all here today? – Quite simply, because the FPÖ staff ceiling is already so low that it no longer has people at all and does not find enough suitable staff to be able to occupy the offices in which one has a political influence; that is not possible at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] – Mr Commissioner, you do not need to shout in there, I know that you must also fight in your own ranks for sufficient staff to be found. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Worm: A weak speech! This is a weak speech, Mr President, because the old people were better!]] Nevertheless, it is already amazing which wrong occupations one had to resort to, if even experts have warned of it and have actually rated Peter Sidlo as inappropriate. Even if I am against pre-conceptions, but the trickle is already – and this is what it is about – when deliberately inappropriate persons are proposed to hang out any counter-actions – in this case with Novomatic – and then to allow the staff rochade to be blessed. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] This also shows how poor the personnel situation of this party is. [[Abg. Kassinger: Absurd claim!]] It is also not just about “post chess”, as Kickl expressed it, it is about questioning the criminal structure behind it. That is why we need such an urgent session as we have here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is still recognized in this debate is how thin the border between normal occupations in Austria – the colleagues have addressed it – and is potentially criminal acts and post-chachers. The whole thing in Austria, unfortunately, also has system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I do not want to remove the SPÖ either now, because the previous government is not the first government suspected of having put inappropriate personnel on influential posts. That is why I appeal to see exactly what posts have happened in recent years and which people have received, no matter under any government constellation. Novomatic is not the only company connected to Ibiza video and FPÖ. I'm excited about what's still going on in connection with FPÖ and Glock. The first call, the H.-C. At the time, Kathrin Glock was. [[Abg. Worm: So the Greens...!]] We're still excited about what's going to happen. Let's see what the courts are going to present. [[Abg. Worm: No word to the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we must not be surprised: Even after Black and Blue I, we have seen what machinations and scandals the blues can do in the government. [[Abg. Worm: Weak! It's weak, my colleague.]] I know, you know, and everyone else here in plenary also: FPÖ cannot rule – point. If the liberals become particularly powerful, it'll go wrong. More than 13 years after Black-Blue I, court proceedings are still under way. The Werner has always said one thing, namely, and I like it: [[Call the FPÖ:The Werner!]] From the opposition bank to the government bank to the indictment bank, that is the cycle of the FPÖ, and that is the problem. [[Abg. Worm: The Greens have no backbone!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what it now needs in Austria, in Austrian politics, is a scandal-free and corruption-free government. It needs it, and if I trust someone to get it, then Werner Kogler is. There is a need for a government that is opposed to corruption and against mis-occupies in the influential political positions. We Greens have always been busy with this. This is one of the pillars of green policy, namely clean policy. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] For this we will also use ourselves, and I guarantee you, that you can still shout in, in the future: that something like this FPÖ government will no longer happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6443	Next speaker: Mrs Dr.in Stefanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6465	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I come back to the quote “Novomatic pays everyone”, because it is also about the question of influence.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6486	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaker again. Please, ladies and gentlemen. You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6501	I come back to the quote “Novomatic pays everyone”, because finally it is also about the question of influence on the policy for law purchase and for the preservation of gambling concessions. This requires influence on the respective government parties. I would like to point out the influence of Novomatic on the last government by an example: In a decision, the Supreme Court stated that Novomatic's slot machines in Vienna violated the gambling law. This means that the use of the game can be reclaimed by civil law. If one assumes that this decision applies to all slot machines that were set up by the end of 2014, this will amount to one billion. This OGH decision was adopted in May 2017, and one can now wonder why it is not known and complains to all those who lost their money at the time – probably because some Novomatics make the wall, including Turkish ex-finance minister Hartwig Löger. My colleague Sepp Schellhorn already submitted a request in September 2018, whose reply we felt very striking at the time. We looked at them even closer and came to the point that Hartwig Löger answered falsely: He opposed the text of the OGH decision, contradicting the experts and experts and the legal view of his own home. It could now be believed that this was because of ignorance or personal self-will, but the Minister's answer to the question covers itself in the argumentation and sometimes even in the wording with a press release of Novomatic, which had already been published for a long time. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Aha!]] What were the arguments of the Novomatic and the turquoise Finance Minister? – First of all: The judgment is a case-by-case decision. – Wrong, the OGH and the administrative jurisdiction say, that is a secure, permanent case law. Second argument of holes and Novomatic: Judicature and legal views have always been inhomogeneous in small gambling. – Wrong: permanent case law. Third argument of Lieger and Novomatic: The operation of the machines had been approved. – Completely wrong: The OGH notes, rather, in its decision, that there was no official authorisation. What are the consequences of this answer? – The Novomatic is best protected from complaints, as has been said in billions. And the inconceivable: Since Hartwig Löger's response to the questions, Novomatic has again relied on them in the ongoing processes. She literally writes, for example: This answer from Minister Hartwig Löger corresponds to our claim. Thus, the supervisory authority responsible for gambling considers that we have also performed administratively approved gambling in accordance with the old legal situation. - Quote. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is a scandal!]] So it was all legal, no one can complain. The fact that Novomatic is claiming such a claim is clear, but why is the Minister of Finance doing this? [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Krainer.]] The Ministry of Finance also had other obligations under the law: Both tax collection and player protection are the competence and responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. We know from numerous player reports that effective control is actually inexistent. We have heard of the losses of a player of 633,000 euros only observed by the Casag, but not stopped. We NEOS consider it important to resolve the conflict between the fiscal interests of the Ministry of Finance in gambling and the establishment of a player protection agency at the same ministry by moving responsibility for player protection to the Ministry of Health. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The question remains: How can the behaviour of the turquoise finance minister be explained by Löger? We want to look at this and others in the committee of inquiry. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[15:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6613	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Philip Kucher came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6641	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am glad that Sebastian Kurz does not need to hear the whole debate today. He has been walking all the time during the session and has not at least been in the hall. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Go, you can do that too!]] I have to be honest, I've had a slight doubt whether Sebastian Kurz is really as great as ÖVP has told us for years now. On the one hand, we have a hero, a top German chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who has received everything in Austria that has controlled all of Austria with Messagecontrol. If Sebastian Kurz did not fit only one addition in the “Spatzenpost” on page 20, he would have already picked up the phone and called it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] If there were huge corruption scandals in his environment, poor Sebastian didn't know anything about it. Then he didn't know anything and was always disappointed afterwards, what didn't happen. Today I have the explanation. Unfortunately, this is the secret of successful politicians: Whenever it gets kind of juicy, he's either not there, is at the toilet, at least he's not in the hall. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Belakovich.]] We already know about him. Always when it came to human fates in Parliament, Sebastian Kurz has not been there. When it comes to action 20 000 and older unemployed people have been said: Hey, we'll delete action 20,000 now, see where you're staying, then Sebastian hasn't had time for that. But if he had time, then it was a matter of feeling in his own environment that every JVPler throughout Austria has added a post that he has joyfully changed in the Federal Chancellery. Sebastian was super-, super-engrassed. There he was quite, very strong. Where Sebastian Kurz was still super clean on the road, and always told about it, the whole area of the large donors was. They have not influenced his policy. He was always clean on the road, he told me. What did not fit in is that donations from large donors have been collected. For me, that was not quite intelligible. That was Sebastian Kurz. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Zarits and Mr Obernoster.]] Where Sebastian Kurz was also super clean on the road was in the area of election struggles. Small bad luck that he was inadvertently above the ceiling by 6 million euros, also again with money from big donors. In retrospect: a small failure of Mr. Kurz. I want to say – we've experienced it today – that there's already a little system behind it, that he's on one side of the super-competent Messagecontrol Federal Chancellor who knows everything while he's somehow acting stupid afterwards and says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] Mr. Löger, I might know him from seeing it. Wasn't he in the government somewhere – no idea –? - He doesn't know that! I mean, that starts with the fact that Mr. Löger is against the accusation of corruption by claiming that this gesture is really a protest, Veto. [[the speaker makes the thumb-to-top sign]] So: If anything bad happens in Austria, please thumb up. From the point of view of the ÖVP this is the sign for: Stop! Stop corruption! I'm against it. That's the ÖVP. No to corruption! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's all ridiculous what you're doing here. I'm sorry Sebastian Kurz wasn't allowed to talk today. There are quite a few questions and other things left open. I'm used to Sebastian bringing a lot into line. He has been one of the few who managed to take a photo of himself and spread it in the second-class aircraft. He just forgot that the entire plane was chartered by the ÖVP and it was a private jet. This is Sebastian Kurz, who has always brought both together. What would interest me personally is: How can it be that the entire government team has been inaugurated into these scandalous events, only Sebastian has been disappointed with nothing? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] Either he didn't want to see it, or he wasn't interested in it, or he was very, very much in the middle of these H.-C.-Strache events. I think it is very important that we clarify this with a committee of inquiry in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6767	Next came Mr Christian Hafenecker. – Ladies and gentlemen, your group has two minutes left to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6789	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear SPÖ, I really admire your ability to self-discipline with today's urgent request. It is really very interesting to follow the remarks that, in fact, end up in a non-inhibited self-appropriation. And at the end of the day, we also need to discuss the case of Mr Hoscher, who, unfortunately, has only become known after the elections, but has not really done so for the job you missed him, and who has now paid 500 000 euros of profit for 2019, and then a small holiday reduction of 600 000 euros for 100 days. Dear SPÖ, that's exciting! 600 000 euros, which is 6 000 euros a day, which Mr Hoscher can pay for the holiday. Explain this to your employees at the Federal Business Office! I'd be interested to see how many employees could have saved you with this money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Well, the SPÖ is self-evident. In any case, I am in favour of us really looking at what happened in a committee of inquiry, what happened in post-posting. Above all, it would be important that this Committee of Inquiry should also deal precisely with what has actually happened in terms of corruption. Since you're always squirting and throwing around out of the garbage cube and linking us with corruption, I would like to ask a question about the SPÖ – perhaps you can still remember the last legislative period –: How many laws on casinos have we dealt with here? – I can tell you: Not one! So where is there a counterperformance for any corruption? So this story is going backwards. [[Abg. Scherak: She has been withdrawn!]] I would now like to go to court with the NEOS. Mr Schellhorn comes here and says: Yeah, it's all being recolored. Everything's completely dramatic. Do you know what's happening in Salzburg? – It's also just being recolored, very massively in black. And you know why only in black? – Because NEOS are not able to send any people. I am already aware that Mr Schellhorn is now here and is offended because he can't join the post chess team because he doesn't have people. So you also have to emphasize that and say what it is like. Perhaps still finalizing to the Greens, and with that I am back to corruption again. One thing is very exciting: In 2010, with the Greens in Vienna, you make the big Halali against the small gambling game, and by chance you land in the club of the Lord Choir, who wanted to build any schools, at once the thousands of casinos Austria AG.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6821	You must formulate the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6843	I'll be right there. - That's where we should look. And maybe a last Bonmot to conclude: Mrs Glawischnig has also fallen away from the faith and has now been a compliance officer at Novomatic. Look at your own door!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6881	The next item is Mrs Sigrid Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6902	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, we have a very lively debate in Parliament today, and I am also very excited about how we will be voting here today. We have a number of different proposals, and I would like to take the opportunity to explain a little as we see Greens applying for them. Mr Wöinger! It is certainly not the case that an elephant is being made out of a mosquito today. It is already true that this would be a gross harmonization of the processes surrounding the appointment of Mr Sidlo, who was obviously totally incapable of doing this job. The assessments by the staff advisors: “not too many eggs in his basketball”, he has no professional experience et cetera are absolutely clear. There is, of course, a need for full information and, of course, a U-committee on this issue will also need to be set up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We shall still see what exactly this U-committee has to examine. There are very good arguments for making a short, crispy, efficient U-committee. There are also very good arguments for extending the investigation period or for increasing the number of cases examined. The President of the Court of Auditors Margit Kraker has announced that she would like to examine the Supervisory Board. Perhaps that's something, too, with interesting information that we should deal with. In any case, it is perfectly clear: We need to address these issues. It must finally end with this form of mail chess and also the corruption that may be in the room here. I would now like to deal specifically with the proposals that we have to vote on today and try to bring a little seriousity into the debate. I would like to say that the cases of Mr Sidlo and Mr Hoscher are not quite comparable, and I also find that the polemics towards SPÖ are not entirely appropriate today. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes!]] Sepp Schellhorn said – that on the request concerning the appointment of Mr. Schmid – that perhaps Mr. Schmid did all of this without the knowledge of the Minister of Finance. I say, maybe it's the other way round. Perhaps Mr. Schmid is the first to be sacrificed to cover others. We do not know that, and we cannot judge it because of the current situation. He obviously photographed a document from the ministry, a specialist expertise. It's too little for us, this soup is too thin. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, I don't think so!]] We will not agree to this request at this time. Let's see how that will be in two weeks! In the same way, there is a legal seriality with regard to the request of the ÖVP regarding “full information of Ibiza video”. In principle, I am very upset by this request that we have an attack on justice again. This is not serious, so we will certainly not agree to it. We have submitted our own request for the “objectivation of board crews in close-to-state companies”. This is addressed to the current government. It can work immediately. We all say: Let's look into the future and change something! This request would be possible, as would the ‘enhancement of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors’. That's where we're for it, too. With regard to the request concerning ‘ministerial separation in the field of gambling’ submitted by NEOS: Yes, of course we are here for that. So I'm excited about how this is going to happen today. I am also excited about the way in which the further debate on these things takes place. In any case, we would do well to take a stand as a parliament and actually work together on full transparency and information. This also means, of course, that we are working to achieve a successful transparency package, so that in future we will no longer have to deal with such unscrupulous things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6972	Next, Mr Helmut Brandstätter, speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6996	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all: Dear Austrians! You listen today, and I know many are experts. Everyone who was once close to a state or state-based company knows how this is happening. I've experienced this at ORF in 1982. Hardly was I there, the black works council has already come and said: You must join. I said: I don't want to, I want to be a journalist and not a politician. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] - Listen! Hardly was the appointment, the red Supervisory Board has come and said: It's not allowed to come because that's not a red one. – That means it has always been that way, and it is terrible. And why is that terrible? In the German Basic Law, it says: “The dignity of man is untouchable.” What you're doing is detesting people. To say you have to be with a party to become something is deplorable. Please stop it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is nice that German Chancellor Kreisky has at least sometimes made an exception and Stephan Koren has become the head of the National Bank. Yes, Sebastian Kurz is happy to compare with Kreisky: If he had shown a little generosity, we wouldn't have the dilemma of Holzmann, which is someone who certainly can't, and the dilemma of shock, which has become a unemployed National Bank Director from the unemployed city council. You've agreed on all of this. At the same time, however, you have weakened the FMA, in which a lot more members are, much more employees, but you only wanted to have one board there. – This, of course, would have been bad for Austria, and that is the main problem. What you have done in these 17 months is to endanger the prosperity of Austria. Let me give you an example: In an important state company, the OMV, there has been a Supervisory Board President named Löster – an internationally respected manager. What happened? – He said: I don't want to, I can't anymore because you're always ruling me in. He wrote to Mr. Löger that it has so far been good for Austria, the right balance between state in- on the one hand and to find independent, economically experienced personalities on the other. Unfortunately, you have tipped this balance. You said: Mr. Löster, we need to You're not here anymore, we want to put someone else there. Who? – A certain Mr Berndt, who had a preference: He donated a lot of money. The same Mr. Berndt, who has donated many, many tens of thousands of euros in 2017, is the President of the OMV. At the meeting, Director-General Roiss, also an experienced manager, said: I can't, I don't want anymore because you're always ruling me in. Who is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board there? – I think Mr. Schmid, an experienced industrial manager in the civil service. We know that this can't work, too. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Re-government would have meant making industrial policy, making economic policy and treating these state enterprises as they are treated, such as companies that pay taxes, providing jobs and which are internationally competitive. But companies run by donors or officials – with all due respect, Mr. Federal Minister – are probably not the right companies, but we need entrepreneurs who can do that. Finally, because I have to stop: If anyone tells me, Mr. Kurz didn't know that, I have already described it in my book – you have to listen to it now –: [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Someone who calls in editors to prevent articles, to intervene them out, or to correct interim headlines doesn't care who's sitting in the National Bank? He doesn't care who is responsible for the money at Casinos Austria? – That's absurd! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If you really believe you could complain to journalists now, if they write it, you'll get a problem with me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7086	The next speaker in the debate is Mr Magistrate. Jörg Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7111	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's actually incredible how here it's trying to make fog walls float through the house and let everything disappear in the fog. As interesting stories from Carinthia are told, some say that every post crew from 1945 must be checked precisely so that we can get ready and report sometime in 2050. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The best is Mr. Kickl: He wants to tell us that posts from 2006 have been made by Red-Black. Mr. Kickl, who was that in 2006? – It was your friends from the BZÖ and the ÖVP, Mr Kickl! [[Call the ÖVP:... in the bodies, don't be stupider than you are!]] They were the ones who did this and are now trying to move the black Peter away. I know why. You're incredibly nervous. They are therefore incredibly nervous, because it is not about the occupation of posts, but about the fact that the prosecutor determines: because of bribery, because of abuse of office, and because of infidelity. That's why you're all so nervous, appreciated ladies and gentlemen of the ex-Ibiza government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. We're not nervous!]] There have been house searches: Home searches with two former ministers of the ÖVP, house searches at Mr. Strache, with whom you have a lot of fun now, and there are more suspicions every day. Now, if you think a little about the past: What happened in Ibiza? There have been two gentlemen, in whatever circumstances, who showed what is planned, and a few months later, one suggests that this was not only planned by some funny gentlemen, but that the things that have been discussed there seem to have been implemented. You now have a single goal: To cover up and conceal this, and we will certainly not let that happen to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want a serious, profound reconnaissance. Parliament is required to clarify this. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for saying what you could say today. I understand that not everything was possible to say, but that's not enough. That is why, in this Causa Ibiza/Casag, an investigation committee, ladies and gentlemen, is needed. It won't go any further. There is also another question to be clarified. What did the ÖVP know? What did the ÖVP government members know? What did Mr. Kurz know? – I have to apologize to you, Mr. Kurz, that I meant you were playing Candy Crush on the phone at the time. It won't have been. Probably all the posts you've been given have been looked through. This has happened, and this will be clarifying, ladies and gentlemen, as well as clarifying and finding out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two pictures have been painted by this Ibiza government for the people. [[Abg. Never mind: Bad speech!]] One is that you may be able to influence politics through donations, and the second is that there may be posts against laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a state that is not worthy of our Republic. We'll explain this, whether you're threatening with complaints or not. [[Abg. You're going to be red...!]] We don't care, we're going to explain.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7227	Mr Karlheinz has now been made head on the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7252	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This urgent request is based on WKStA's investigations, which have seen the light of the public in a highly dubious way – or at least parts of it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is absolutely unworthy of a rule of law. What's the result? – The media are pre-condemned by unchallenged, integrity personalities, and it also finds its continuation – no, the facts are in public – here inside, all based on partial publications of files that should never have come to the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] The result is, as I said, the damage, the damage to the reputation of people who have certainly not deserved it. It applies to every person in this country the presumption of innocence, until the opposite is proved, but there has already been a pre-conception, which simply cannot be in that country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] What moved me to come to the speaker's desk now is something else. Mr Schellhorn, for the time being: First of all, it is not a question of a television discussion as an insolent personality, in the case of the former Minister of Finance, of accusing corruption. This is not happening in this country, it is nowhere in this world! [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The Lord Löger is led as an accuser!]] – Accused is not condemned, dear Mrs. Cubob woman! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But he didn't say that!]] It's still going on. You have drawn the President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce Harald Mahrer into this debate in your speech and are scandalizing something that is far from any problem. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What...?! I'm sorry, it's incompatible in every other country.]] He is on the one hand President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, and in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce the banks are organized in a division and in professional associations which are legally independent persons, on which he has no influence. The banks are organized there. On the other hand, he is president of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, he is chairman of the Supervisory Board there, without executive power and thus without influence on banking supervision, you know that very well. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS]] [[Call:Top Overseer]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: And he negotiates for the ÖVP! Incredible!]] Here a connection to create an inconsistency is such a thing of the last-class, Mr President, I am not actually used to it by you, and I do not understand that you are doing so. [[towards Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What is incompatible,... you have quite different things!]] You are acting against better knowledge because you know the decision-making skills in both organisations and thus know that there is zero incompatibility; but you are drawing President Mahrer here into this debate and thus appear to have something to do with this debate. That's really last-class! Shame on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7399	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. We come to a number of votes. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Matznetter, colleagues and colleagues on the appointment of Thomas Schmid as the Board of Directors of Österreichische Beteiligungss AG (ÖBAG). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Fürlinger, colleagues and colleagues on “full information about Ibiza video”. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. The motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (2/E) (Ruf: Bad conscience!) Debates of the European Parliament Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Objectivation of executive positions in close-to-state companies’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Yildirim, colleagues and colleagues on the appointment of Peter Sidlo as the Board of Directors of Casinos Austria AG. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Angerer, fellow Members, on the extension of the Court of Auditors' audit competence. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, colleagues in the field of ‘ministerial competence in the field of gambling’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's still coming!]] [[16:03:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-11-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7471	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 97/A to 109/A. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 11. December 2019, 10 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed. I wish you a nice day.
