ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e687	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now opening 79. Meeting of the National Council. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e708	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e958	I would also like to point out to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to requests 850/A to 852/A, to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, to the Committee on Budgets 856/A and to the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth 857/A respectively. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e983	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, to report to the Constitutional Committee on the application 56/A of Deputies Dr.in Griss, colleagues on “a federal law that amends the Party Act 2012 and the Rules of Procedure 1975”, a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place immediately. The vote on this motion for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. I would also like to say that Mrs Mag.a I have requested that the Constitutional Committee report on applications 832/A, 828/A, 833/A, 834/A and 835/A be subject to a time limit of one year. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mr Zinggl has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on applications 848/A and 849/A for a period of up to 1 January each year. to be set up on July 2019. These requests will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. [[16:20:55]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1024	That is what we are going to enter into the debate. President Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger will be given the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1051	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! I already said it today: This is a test for all of us now, how seriously we mean it with a new political culture. If you allow me, Madam President, I would like to say briefly that this is a moment when I am very aware that it is unique and that this is the first time in the history of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Steinacker: Hopefully unique!]] I also notice the unrest. I can imagine that this unrest not only exists here in the house but also outside. We have not voted in favour, we have set out the reasons for this. I don't think this is the time to create even more uncertainty and perhaps chaos, but I also want to say something clearly, because I was asked: Our Constitution, of course, lays down clear rules for such cases. But I think there is a great difference between a theory that has to be done in accordance with our constitution and actual practice. This is something that many people outside this house, who have made calls in the past few days, may not quite imagine, namely that there is a big difference between theory and practice. But I have great confidence in the care, in the discretion of our Federal President, now to take the necessary steps. [[Abg. Steinacker: He didn't even manage to change the SPÖ!]] Perhaps today a door has gone, happened, wasted, a door to a policy that was unclean, which was also anti-patriotic, which was at least populist, which was very strongly looking for the applause for popular measures, rather than doing the right thing. Perhaps today a door to a policy that has for far too long put its own power and its own party calculation on the welfare of the country has been shed, a door to a policy that likes to make decisions behind closed doors and acts in secret, for example, when it comes to not revealing party finances. Perhaps a door has also been thrown to a policy that has sought to get out of every position of power the best possible advantage for its own party and its own people. There's a chance in this crisis. We can open a new door, a new door to a responsible policy, a transparent policy, a policy that sends a clear signal to people out there and says: We got it! We must control ourselves, we must assume that we are transparent! We must allow ourselves to be controlled! I firmly believe that it is now time for this new kind of politics, for a new Austria, which remains open to the world, which remains pro-European, which does not play out against one another, which places the dignity of man, the dignity of each individual and of every individual, which also clearly states that we must look into the future in order to bring about necessary reforms for the next generation, without playing out individual groups against each other. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] I understand, I can empathically understand that you are now very restless. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] I am very sorry that this is exactly what happened before I warned that there is now uncertainty that there are many questions, perhaps even about personal speculations, but not about the content that is necessary to our country - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1105	Excuse me, Mrs. Club Chairman! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would really ask you to lower noise levels a little and give attention to the speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1121	Thank you, Madam President. It's not about paying attention to me, it's about paying attention to these issues that it needs for a really new Austria. First of all, the Court of Auditors needs the opportunity to really understand, to really control what party finances look like. I want to explain this very briefly, because I think that outside nobody knows how it is. We as parties are obliged to disclose our party finances to the Court of Auditors in an accountable report. De facto, however, we can write fantasy figures there, and all that the Court of Auditors can do is say more or less that what has been presented is numerically correct, comprehensible. [[Abg. Rosary: Well, it's not like that!]] The Court of Auditors cannot look into our books and say that these figures that have been reported that we are publishing are actually right. That's cockbucks, ladies and gentlemen. That's toothless, it's powerless, it's a cowardly policy that fears control! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is why we are making this request to ensure that the Court of Auditors really receives comprehensive auditing skills. However, we have put in other deadlines to carry out the test to show: We politicians are not like that! We are talking about a package of proposals for clean policies, especially ahead: no government rate until the National Council election. It should not be possible to misuse the office for its own advantage. That is what we want to decide, as far as possible. Second point: Crimes of illegal party financing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if the penalties are so lax that no one obviously has a problem with it – nobody may not, but some have no problem with it – to finance themselves over dubious channels beyond the law, then we need a criminal record of illegal party funding. Perhaps this is the only language that the rulers understand. Further point: Of course, we need a party law that also allows the alliances, the associations, to be involved in the preparatory organizations. To explain this again: The finances of a party are one, but especially the established parties have been such for decades that there are preparatory organisations that there are sub-organisations that there are regional organizations that there are close associations, and, of course, funding works through these organisations. This is more than just a basket fee, which may also take over costs for events, for election events, for posters – who knows? All of this is not part of the party finances and is not disclosed. There remains a large part of it in the dark, and that must also be done. Last, but not least, I would like to say: If one exceeds the legal upper limit of the electoral campaign by almost double and then has to pay a penalty that is, as it were, paid out of the post office, then this is obviously not a penalty that hurts. I do not see why every entrepreneur, every retailer, has to disclose everything transparent, disclose the entire billing, have to be controlled by the financial authority, and then, if he or she is even making a little mistake, be severely punished – then immediately comes a penalty of several thousand euros, which hurts him, he is so to speak, crushed down. But the parties here in the house who do not comply with the laws do not have to fear sanctions or those who do not hurt them. Therefore – once again –: The door to old politics, which was partly contemptuous, has been closed. Let us open a new door for a new Austria, which is transparent, which is world-wide, pro-European and which is thinking in the future! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1182	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1207	Madam President. High house! Yes, my previous speaker spoke about the previous debate – it could be said, of course, that's an abuse, but I think the situation is so unique that it is really necessary to talk about it again. That's why I'm saying: Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, it was right that you have now also found words about the previous process. Yes, it is a situation that is unique in the Second Republic, and you have said it correctly: The Constitution provides for all possibilities, but practice does not become so simple. The President-in-Office of the Council now has to find a person to whom he is responsible for the formation of government, and this person has to form a new government after that. I can't imagine that this works within a few hours, but it's going to be fast, and it's very, very urgent that we ensure continuity and stability here. Let me address a word by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: He's been talking about trust. It is about confidence in the people who have been elected, it is about the trust that people have brought to the people who are now sitting in this National Council. And I do not think that it was the wish of all the people who have voted in favour of this House today that we give them uncertainty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Your mandate is a personal mandate, it is not due to a single party, it is your responsibility towards the elector and the elector who has elected you. And in this sense, I believe that the policy is continuing here now. I can therefore come to the requests that you decide on a deadline today, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, namely on requests for the promotion of parties: Yes, it is good, right and important in a parliamentary democracy that the parties receive funds from the public authorities that the control of these funds is also transparent. Therefore, you also have my full support that we need to continue to discuss the reform of party funding, continue to talk and that there can be no doubt that this reform is being worked out transparently and openly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't talk! Act! Do!]] The Austrian People's Party was always a very transparent party. The new People's Party has revealed all the numbers and donations in the election campaign, all of you could read them on the homepage. For us this is a matter of course, and from this nature of course we would also like to start discussions with you. That's good, because it's not allowed to happen any more such things as they used to be in the past, for example, that a team A from the SPÖ, which formed a People's Committee for the then top candidate Christian Kern, said this association, doesn't disclose who he got money from. Nor should it be that there is such an association, “Weil’s about what’s going on”, who says he is completely independent, but who is supported by the wife of the German Chancellor – then. We need to talk about it. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, just so by the way, because your colleague Schellhorn spoke of clean hands in the previous discussion: Yes, it would also be good to talk a little bit about the silver stone activities that this one has made for you in the Vienna municipal election campaign. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: What do you mean now? What are you supposed to do here? It's a horrendous thing! The client decides what is being done!]] It is therefore important that we talk about party promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1269	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Thomas Drozda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1293	Mr Gerstl, I know this speech. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (in the direction of Abg. Harmful! Harmful!]] We have to look, we have to talk, we have to negotiate, we have to discuss. We have tabled a request and will be discussed in the Constitutional Committee. This is about very simple things that you learn from Ibiza, but that you can also learn from the way in which the 2017 ÖVP election campaign has run. [[Abg. Black: There's one talking!]] This is a relatively short summary: There is a law, this law provides for an election cost limit of 7 million euros. And the ÖVP has spent 13 million euros. That's fact. So we know about the expenditure of the EIA, we do not know about the revenue of the EIA, that will also be clarified. And you could be the first or even Karl Nehammer, who comes here and says what's going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That you connect the NEOS with silver stone now and that you say you have to look at everything again – it actually becomes so underground. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You can watch everything anyway!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – You, I have a long list of clubs where Gernot Blümel is supported or Obmann is. There are associations in connection with your EU candidates for tips. I suggest you: We let this whole story be focused on limiting donations, with 10 000 euros per donation, per election campaign with 200 000 euros, making really drastic penalties for excesses, 200 percent if the exceedance is greater than 15 percent. We take this into account for this election campaign, decide at the next meeting of the Constitutional Committee and have a campaign in which everyone has the same and fair opportunities and no one depends on large donors, just as you do.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1375	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1399	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it's always interesting: If one is talking about party funding here, then one is accused of each other. The NEOS are of course sublime, completely sublime above all, because they have no donations and no grants and are completely transparent. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, but it is transparent! The difference is, it's transparent!]] So, for example, the video by Hazelsteiner probably appears to you as the election financing of NEOS, or does it not seem? [[Abg. Meil-Reisinger: What video?]] “Come on Hofer, come Öxit!”, the video against Hofer. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Did we stand for election?]] – Are you at your choice? If this is indirectly a party financing, has it been on your line to be against Hofer, isn't it? We can discuss it, I'm just saying: Everyone is talking big, you're completely sacrosanct, but when we talk about financing, we're also talking about such things! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's confusing what you're talking about!]] On the one hand, we have ads that are financed – we already know the ad stories. We know that the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce ultimately support parties indirectly, because they present the same topics and therefore use money that ultimately benefits the parties. [[Abg. Loacker: The 23 million annual funding!]] - Yes, huge sums! I am very glad that we can discuss these things a little loosely; also about the topics clubs. [[Abg. Schellhorn: Would you have that now...?]] Yes, absolutely right, these associations in the area should also be looked at closely. The FPÖ has now immediately taken the initiative to demonstrate what there are associations here. There are associations everywhere, there are staff committees that, interestingly, finance engagements that finance events that finance other things. I am absolutely of the opinion that we should take a close look at this, because the system we have, the promotion of parties in itself, is the most transparent at all. This will be examined, this will ultimately be examined by the Court of Auditors, and I also think it is right that we limit donations, because, of course, large donations may be a problem in terms of influence. Our approach is therefore: no donations over 3 500 euros per person per year. That's our approach. But, Mr Drozda, because you said you have always heard that we are talking about it and talking about it: Yes, we must now actually bring together all these proposals that exist here, they are largely reasonable. We need to see how we implement them, and I am good things that we are going on here in order to regain confidence and show how parties are financed. And if this is really clearer and more transparent in the end, we have a lot of it because, as FPÖ, we have always supported exactly this promotion of parties, as it exists now, we have always said: That is the right way, where the citizen actually sees where his money comes from, and he sees in a certain way – but it must remain a certain part of which the parties of course decide for themselves how to spend their money – revenue and expenditure. And no big donations. That's the most transparent.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1500	Mrs Irmgard Griss is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1527	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! One comment to Mr Gerstl: What comes back with a certain regularity is: When the arguments go out, silverstone comes out. Whether it fits it or not: It's called silverstone. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand what the Vienna election campaign has to do with today's debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] I do not understand which accusation is to be subverted here. Against what NEOS calls for here – and other parties have also made such requests – that there is transparency in party funding, there is no reasonable argument. It must be perfectly clear that it is necessary to disclose – the real conditions! – how parties finance how they get to their money, who finances their activities, what grants they receive. No one can say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The second, which must be quite natural: If there is a duty to lay down the law, there must be a penalty in the case of non-fulfilment of the duty. If there is no penalty, then the duty is not fulfilled regularly. Anyway, it happens – that it happens, we have already seen it. Thirdly, If there is an obligation to account, there must not only be a penalty in case of non-fulfilment – which is missing now; if a party says that it does not submit an accountable report at all, then nothing happens at all, then it is entirely on the safe side – but if the Court of Auditors has to present what a party has done, if parties have to produce an accountable report and have to submit it, then the Court of Auditors must, of course, also have the opportunity to examine the content. The Court of Auditors must be able to look into the books. It is absurd what is happening now: that the Court of Auditors must consider whether it has been properly expected whether it appears in the correct headings, but cannot see if this is so recorded in the books. So I think that's a theater you can't take seriously! This binds resources to the Court of Auditors and does not bring anything. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The next thing that matters is: Of course, there must be a criminal record of illegal party funding. Why? – Because illegal party funding is nothing but a fraud against voters. Only if this is criminal, the prosecutor also has the possibility to open accounts. If it is a mere administrative criminal offence, then there is no such possibility and then it cannot be checked. That means: Let us take advantage of the opportunity that has now arisen, because no one can argue that there is a problem here that the parties are in the not entirely unfounded suspicion of perhaps financing themselves through ways that are not in conformity with the law! There are applications, and I invite you to accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1596	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1617	Madam President. There is a consensus that there is much to do in this sector, but we can now see in what direction this is going. There is also a corresponding request from us. He is very similar to what the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors has called for and what NEOS also supports. We are not in principle opposed to subsidies to parties, especially small parties need money from outside so that they can take steps at all, and we are not at all a party donation at all. But it can't be that money Austria determined and determined, and it can't be that speculators, big companies want laws, then a bit of what to pay, a few hundred thousand, and then these laws actually become reality. Because it was mentioned that there is already a ceiling: Yes, this upper limit is law, but if it is not observed, then we do not need this law, or we need to tighten it up. A law which does not impose sanctions, and which does not lead to manifest sanctions, is toothless and therefore useless. So if someone who commits severe theft can expect a penalty of a few hundred euros, he will probably continue to commit this severe theft, and in the worst case he will pay the penalty. If Mr Stefan says that there will always be opportunities to somehow deal with the law through associations and close organizations, then I can only say: We know from experience that almost all laws can still be bypassed if you try, but it is always a question of asymptotic approach. That is, the sharper the laws are, the less easily it succeeds, the more clearly then the violation of the law. And if the President of the Court of Auditors asks for an insight into all the evidence of the original nature, we will join this in 100%. That's a way to deal with it. Criminal provisions in the case of illegal party financing are also a necessity for us, because the prosecutor can then open up the accounts and some things happen in the direction. I just remember Klubobmann Wöginger, who is not in the room right now, who said to us on the edge of a President: We certainly don't let ourselves be looked into our party books! - Well, that's where it starts. So if we get this on the occasion of an event, that we move in the direction, then we see who can go the farthest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1658	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 56/A on Party Law 2012 and Rules of Procedure Act 1975. to be set up on July 2019. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[16:48:13]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1694	We are now coming to a number of further votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. a Beate Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 832/A by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger on the Media Cooperation and Promotion Transparency Act, a deadline of one year. to be set up on July 2019. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this deadline to be a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Members. a Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 828/A by Mr Mag. a Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues concerning party law 2012 a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (in the direction of ÖVP and FPÖ) This could have been a star hour of Parliament now!]] We shall vote on the request made by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 833/A by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, Members of the Party Law 2012 a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is in favour of this request for a deadline? – This is the minority. Rejected. Vote on the request by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 834/A by Mr Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, Members of the Party Law 2012 to be set up on July 2019. Please consent! – This is the minority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 835/A by Member Mag.a Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on Party Law 2012 a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who agrees? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now vote on the request by Mr Zinggl, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 848/A by Mr Zinggl, colleagues on the 2012 Party Law and the 2012 Party Promotion Act. to be set up on July 2019. Who is in favour of this deadline request? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote on the request made by Mr Zinggl, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 849/A by Dr Zinggl, colleagues on the 2012 Party Law. to be set up on July 2019. – This is rejected with too little consent. [[16:51:30]] Entry and allocation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-27-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00079_d7e1775	In addition, I announce that in 78. Meeting of the National Council of Amendment 858/A by Mrs Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 12. June 2019, at 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
