ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4446	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get the 80. Declaration by the National Council on Openness. I very much welcome the ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome the Federal Government, at the head of Federal Chancellor Dr Brigitte Bierlein with its ministers, and I welcome the visitors to the gallery, the numerous media representatives and the spectators in front of the televisions. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 78th and the Official Protocol of 79. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: May be in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Johanna Jachs, Mag. Andreas Schiederund Herbert Kickl. I can congratulate the National Council team quite warmly, before I make the fishing talks. We can be pleased that we have become football European champions. [[General condolences.]] The remarkable final game against Germany ended with 4 : 0 – really a revanche for Cordoba – and that in neutral Switzerland, that is, something. [[General condolences.]] With this sporting event it starts well, I can now get to the serious thing again. [[09:08:55]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4513	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that MEPs Angela Fichtinger, Franz Hörl and Johann Rädler have waived their mandates. The mandate of Mr Hörl is adopted by Mrs Kira Grünberg. Instead of Mr Fichtinger, Mr Lukas Brandweiser and Mr Rädler Dr. Christian Stocker were appointed to the National Council. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] . I understand, Mr Rädler is leaving some. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] The Federal Election Authority has also received notices that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs A.D. Mag. Dr. Juliane Bogner-Strauß, Elisabeth Köstinger and Dr. Josef Moser were once again assigned the mandate which they had given to members of the Federal Government on the occasion of their appointment as members of the Federal Government, with representatives Dr. Josef Smolle and Angelika Kuss-Bergner, Bed expelled from the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will make the fishing immediately. After the reading of the vow formula and by the writer’s name call, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I'm allowed to be a writer, Mag. Steinacker for reading the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4612	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4638	I should like to thank the new Members of this House for their warm welcome, and I am looking forward to constructive cooperation. [[General condolences.]] [[09:11:08]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4665	==References== In May 2019, German Chancellor Hartwig Löger received the following message: “With this I can tell you that Federal President Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen, resolution of 28. In accordance with Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, [...] the Federal Government and Article 74(1), in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, have deposed the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of the Interior of the Office. At the same time, until the formation of a new Federal Government under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Chancellery has entrusted me with the continuation of the administration of the Federal Chancellor's Office and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. Furthermore, until the establishment of a new Federal Government, [...] the members of the separating Federal Government [...] were entrusted with the continuation of the administration.” At this point, especially in this situation, I should like to thank the members of the transitional government very much for their careful work. [[General condolences.]] ==References== June of this year is a letter by Chancellor Brigitte Bierleiningelangt: “With this I can say that Federal President Dr. Alexander VAN DER BELLEN, with resolution of 3. June 2019 [...] the Federal Government of the Office has removed. As a result, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany gave me a resolution of 3. Under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, [...] was appointed Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Furthermore, according to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, on my proposal, Univ.-Prof. Dr. h.c. Clemens JABLONER became Vice Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice, Mag. Elisabeth UDOLF-STROBL, Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location, Dipl.-Ing. Maria PATEK, MBA as Minister for Sustainability and Tourism, Mag. Dr Brigitte ZARFL, Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection, Dkfm. Eduard Müller, MBAzum Federal Minister for Finance, Mag. Thomas STARLINGER as Minister of State Defense, Dr Wolfgang PESCHORN as Federal Minister for the Interior, Mag. Andreas REICHARDT as Minister of Transport, Innovation and Technology, Mag. Alexander SCHALLENBERG, LL.M. the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs and Power. Dr Iris Eliisa RAUSKALA appointed Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research. In addition, Federal President Dr. Alexander VAN DER BELLEN Dkfm. Eduard MÜLLER, MBA as referred to in Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 77(4) Federal Constitutional Act with the management of the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport, as well as Mag. Ines STILLING, as referred to in Article 70(1), in conjunction with Article 78(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, appointed Federal Minister without a portefeuille.’ Application in accordance with § 49 para. 5 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4732	There is a request from MEPs Wöginger, Leichtfried, Jenewein and Scherak according to § 49 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda with the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government template 573 of the Supplements, agreement under Rule 15a B-VG on child and youth assistance, which requires a two-thirds majority, to negotiate it as item 4 of the agenda and to assign the previous item 4 and 5 to headings 5 and 6. However, this presupposes that the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the current committee report in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who agree, for a sign of approval. – That seems to be unanimous, no one has sat down. This has been adopted unanimously. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4763	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] As usual, I can announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 5 p.m.; everything that goes beyond that will be made available online in the TV library. Today, a photographer of the Parliamentary Directorate will again be on the road. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4937	In order to be able to negotiate item 2 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report. It is the report of the Constitutional Committee on the motion for a resolution 850/A by Mr Wöginger, Mr Rendi-Wagner, Mr Kickl, Mr Meinl-Reisinger, Mr President, on ‘a federal law with which the XXVI is responsible. The legislative period of the National Council is terminated prematurely”, 630 of the supplements. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to receive a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority of two-thirds. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e4964	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debates. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 139, SPÖ and FPÖ each 124 as well as NEOS and NOW 41 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda for 21 minutes. It is noted that their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. For Agenda item 1, we agreed on the following statement: There is agreement that the clubs will speak after the German Chancellor's and Vice-Cancellor's declaration, each with five rounds of speakers in the whole. It is also planned that, in the course of the debate, the Minister of Interior, Foreign Affairs and Finance will make a speech. To this end, I should like to say in addition that the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor have a final speaking time of 20 minutes each and a term of 10 minutes for the Federal Ministers' speeches in the debate. Following this, three club rounds take place, one according to the speeches by the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. We shall now proceed to the vote on the design of the speaking time. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5002	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mrs Griss has requested that the Constitutional Committee report to Members Griss, Members of Parliament on non-profit-making state attorneys, set a deadline until 1.7.2019. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on the request 576/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on ‘a federal law amending the Father's Karenz Act and the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984’. to be set up June 2019. Equivalent procedure: The application shall be made in accordance with the order of business. After the end of the negotiations, it was put to the vote at this meeting. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to point out that Member of Parliament has requested Lightfried to report to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the application 18/A of Members of Parliament for a Federal Law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 to a deadline until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Equivalent procedure: The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Members of the Muchitsch, colleagues and colleagues have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on the request 274/A of Members of Parliament on a federal law amending the Employment Act and other laws be extended until 13. Please wait until June 2019. – The same treatment is foreseen. Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on Mr Ing's motion for a resolution 629/A. Vogl, ladies and gentlemen, concerning labour law, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. This application shall also be coordinated in accordance with the rules of business. I should also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on the request 324/A from Members of the Stöger, colleagues and colleagues on social responsibility law be subject to a period of time up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. The vote will also take place at the end of the sitting. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that the Members of this House have requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on the request 338/A by Members of Parliament for a "Bundesgesetz, which amends the Mutterschutzgesetz 1979", be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. – The same treatment is foreseen. Finally, before entering the agenda, I should like to make a request from Members Noll, ladies and gentlemen to the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 852/A by Mr Noll, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Law on the Protection of Drinking Water Supply, to set a deadline until 1.7.2019. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Now we are going into the agenda – after this speech marathon. [[09:21:42]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the accession of the new Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5060	We're going to Agenda item 1. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request put forward here. I can give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5092	Mr President. Honourable Members to the National Council! But above all, revered citizens! “Nothing keeps the community together better than the reliability.” – These words of the well-known Roman statesman Cicero still have meaning. Let me add the quote to the term trust: We stand for reliability and for confidence! I am in front of you today as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, together with my colleagues on the Government Bank, I will make a statement of government. This is in this form a unique situation in the history of the Second Republic. For the first time, we have a transitional government set up by the Federal President. Our next year 100 years old federal constitution had the opportunity to show what is in it. We were able to master the new government situation smoothly. Over the past few weeks, it has been impressive to demonstrate how reliable our Austrian constitution, the division of violence and our institutions are in it. Speaking in this House as the first German chancellor was not in my life planning, as you probably all know. I was surprised. The more I and my colleagues in the Federal Government take on this task with great humility. I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and the five ministers and the five ministers for their willingness to serve our country so quickly. I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of all of us, if I thank the President of the Federal Republic for his careful, quiet and trusting action. It is a great privilege for me that I have been able to work at the head of the Constitutional Court over the past 16 years. I have given up this function – and you may believe it – with a heavy heart, but I know that the Austrian Constitutional Court in the hands of the Vice-President is very well-informed. In my speech, I pointed out the importance of dialogue as broad as possible – with representatives of political parties, civil society and religious communities. I have already been able to hold numerous personal talks in the first few days: with the President and the Presidents of the National Council, club members, representatives of NGOs. I would like and will maintain this dialogue throughout my term of office. In this House, the heart of Austrian democracy and, ladies and gentlemen, this heart is beating alive and strong. The laws of the National Council give us the framework to live in freedom and peace and to be able to solve problems together. This federal government, unlike you, honourable Members, has not been directly or indirectly elected. My words must therefore be different from those of other governments. We do not have a programme to work out, we do not have an election promise, we do not have to comment on day-to-day events. But we have the task of ensuring stability and security for people in this country. In this sense, this federal government is fully operational and guarantees the existence of all the services of the state for citizens. With all our strengths, we will seek to gain the trust of people in this country. We will achieve the highest quality work for our country. Get out of here. We're going to give up on day-to-day calculations. We will bring in those initiatives that turn away the damage from our Republic. And we adhere to the principle of maximum spasm. Above all, however, we will never lose sight of our responsibility to the citizens, because we primarily serve the people in this country and respect them, ladies and gentlemen, your special responsibility as elected representatives of the people in this House. Important and foreseeable political issues should and must be answered by the coming Federal Government, particularly important personnel decisions are to be made by it. Following our presentation, the debate will take place on the request for the early termination of this legislative period. I should like to ask you to take all the measures quickly and jointly in order to be able to set an election date. As the President-in-Office said, we would have wanted an earlier date, but of course we respect the decision of the National Council. It is one of our self-conceptions that, as executive, we will implement the legislative decisions – your decisions, ladies and gentlemen – to the best of our knowledge and conscience. We will also exercise our best interests in Europe and in the world. We rely on the expertise of our diplomats and the well-informed voting processes. Just today 25 years ago, the referendum on Austria's accession to the European Union took place. After a quarter of a century, we can see with pride and gratitude: Austria is and remains a reliable partner in Europe and in the world. It is clear to me and to us that foreign and European policy can take little account of internal-Austrian developments. After the European elections, it will be possible to set a course at European level. These changes will have a significant impact on our country for the next few years. This concerns the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework as well as the resolution of the Brexit and, above all, important personnel decisions. The European Commission is not a purely administrative instrument, it is a high-level institution. The selection of the Austrian candidate or candidate should therefore be guided by professional expertise and political expertise. It is in the interest of Austria to continue to be seen in Brussels as a strong voice for Europe and Europe. I appeal to you, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree in this process and I am confident that we can make a good decision together in the interests of Austria. We live in a globalised world where our main areas of life face major challenges, such as digitisation, climate change, a sustainable and financeable social system or demographic change. These are just a few points that will be of crucial importance for the future of our country. It is up to us to deal with these challenges. Our goal is a viable, economically successful, world-wide Austria. This government has no majority, so there is no distinction between government and opposition parties. All the more so is the political discourse, the weighing of different interests and the finding of a consensus in all your responsibilities; it is the responsibility of Parliament. We all, ladies and gentlemen, have different political attitudes, we are of different ethnic origin, we have different religious beliefs, genders or sexual orientations. - Yeah, we're different. For me, as a woman, as a longtime lawyer and judge, it is important to observe a binding element in all this diversity, namely humanity. The togetherness was and is good Austrian tradition. Let us work together not to create enemy images, to present the common to the parting and to be a model especially for youth – for our country, for its people, for our common future. In the beginning, I formulated our guiding principle with the words of Cicero: ‘Nothing keeps the community together better than the reliability.’ For reliability we advertise: In this sense, I am looking forward to the good cooperation with the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5181	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for her statement and now ask Mr Vice-Chancellor for his speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5202	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the National Council! We, the Republic, all the people living in this country are currently going through an unusual and delicate time. Although the Federal Government lost its stability and, after the vote of distrust, its office in advance, however, could never be the subject of a constitutional or state crisis; rather, we are in a situation for which our federal constitution, in the original version of 1920, and in particular in the version of the novel of 1929, takes wise precautions. That is why it was the case of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, in application of Art. 69 para. 1 B-VG a Federal Chancellor and on her proposal to appoint the remaining members of the Federal Government. The particular feature is that this new federal government cannot resort to a secure majority in the House. However, I would like to stress – and this is my origin as a constitutional legalist – that this federal government is democratically legitimate, because the Federal President is elected by the federal people and the appointments made by it therefore give democratic legitimacy to the members of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] However, this refers only to the Federal Government as such, not also to its activities. As a result of the principle of the rule of law of enforcement and with a view to the permanent control of the Federal Government by Parliament, the possibilities for action of such an expert government, such a transitional cabinet, are limited, and I believe this to be correct and appropriate. The lack of a positive vote of confidence in our federal constitution means that, if a request for distrust is not submitted, the Federal Government does not automatically enjoy the trust of the National Council; rather, it is under the supervision of the National Council and is dependent on acquiring this trust daily. That's why I'm having an exchange with you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned. I think I can speak for the entire federal government if I assure you in this sense that we see our task in an expert continuation of the administration. However, the Federal Government must become an initiative where damage is to be avoided, for example in the event of a failure to implement the Union. Right. However, the Federal Government will refrain from initiatives that are based on social choices that can only be legitimized – and that is, only after the election of a new National Council. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my capacity as Vice-Chancellor, it is my constitutional duty to represent the Federal Chancellor, if she is prevented from serving in her entire field of activity. In addition, I will always try to support her in her coordination activity, and I identify with every word that the Federal Chancellor has said before me. As Minister of Justice, for me, the rule of law and fundamental rights are the highest levels of action. If it is true in a trivial sense that, in the final analysis, policy determines the right, it must be done in the constitutional and rule of law in those forms that lay down the Constitution, in particular fundamental rights, and the obligations of international and Union law. In particular, the European Convention on Human Rights with its unprecedented success story is in the centre of political action for me. The Minister of Justice is responsible for justice, the third state function. It is my core task to strengthen both the independence and the functioning of jurisdiction. Of course, other areas of the large resort may not be affected; I only call the prosecutors and the execution of the sentence here. The constitutional tasks of my department, federalism and administrative reform will not be of the same importance over the next few months as in the legislative period now ending. This cannot mean, however, that all considerations are raised. So I will also try to do this. Let me conclude by saying, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I have taken this office with great reverence, but also with a certain cheerfulness. I am very aware of the great responsibility. I ask for your trust, and I also thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5263	I should also like to thank you very much for the comments made by Mr Vice-Chancellor, in particular for the final statement: The elegance of the Constitution also suggests that this office be carried out with cheerfulness. – Thank you very much. Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5288	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! At the beginning, I would like to make the revision happen again in the last few weeks and also to explain why a transitional government is in the House today. ==References== In May 2019, Austria changed. The inconspicuous Ibiza video has made new elections necessary, because for the People's Party, it was clear that, due to the enormous statements in the video, a party-independent Minister of the Interior for the complete and complete reconnaissance of all incidents needs to be done. It is not easy to go to the agenda, for example, when the vice chancellor and FPÖ-Obmann were told that he wanted to sell our water, or when he made statements with which freedom of the press is trampled with feet. [[Abg. Schimanek: My God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case for us, and that is why new elections were a necessity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Such a fool!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Everything has to be on the table, there needs to be a complete reconnaissance, and that's why new elections have been called. As a result, however, a red-blue pact has developed, which is unique in the Second Republic. [[Sadness at SPÖ and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Hauser: You don't believe that!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Linder and Mr Schimanek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what people in the constituencies are telling you, but that Rot-Blau has chosen a federal government which was used by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is not understood by the majority of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You must explain this to your own voters anyway. I recently met a railway widow who chose the SPÖ during her life, and she said: I also do not understand what our party presidents wanted to do with the election of this Federal Government! I don't know myself anymore in my party, and I won't choose them either! – This is something you don’t rarely hear in days like this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, it was clear that this was an action out of emotions. Anger and hatred are bad counsellors, ladies and gentlemen, and at the EU election, the population has also shown you that the people in Austria see this differently. [[Abg. Schimanek: You don't believe that yourself!]] Now, however, we have reached this transitional government, which is now before us, and, ladies and gentlemen, we by the People's Party will support this government in the sense of state responsibility and stability – that is not a question for us – until a new government legitimated by the people is praised. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] First of all, the voters are on the floor, and on the election day we have for the second time experienced a red and blue pact, because from the President of the Federal Republic – the Chancellor has already mentioned it – there was the wish for an early election date, namely the 15. September. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Schimanek]] I also have the 22nd round in a round of negotiations. September offered – Vorarlberg would have aimed at it with the Landtagswahl – no, it was not possible. Red and blue want a later election, at the end of September, against the will of the Federal President. A election at the end of September means a longer standstill and also an unnecessary long election campaign. – This is not in the sense of the people in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is about quickly restoring our ability to act and to restore stability. What does that mean for the coming weeks? I say that we are proud of what we have been able to adopt here in the last one and a half years together with the FPÖ – that is not a question – and we are also prepared to work together on the projects that we have jointly launched, which have already happened to the Council of Ministers, projects that have been jointly presented, such as the increase in minimum pensions, the ban on plastic sacks or the education investment law on the extension of all day schools in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But what we don't want, my Ladies and gentlemen, is a kind of casino parliamentarianism, as we have partly experienced it in 2008 and 2017. It is irresponsible to the succeeding generations when taxpayers are squandered here and we bring Austria into a debt situation; now we have no debt, we can achieve a surplus in 2019. I call on all the political groups represented in Parliament not to bring in such projects and not to accept them at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our projects, which we will still bring together – I assume, and I hope so, because they are good proposals – are taken into account in the medium-term budget of the federal, state and local authorities. We're not wasting any new money, ladies and gentlemen! In line with the stability of the country, I also hope for an orderly and reasonable process at the forthcoming meetings, and that we do not decide on a sinterous electoral sugar here. We have the responsibility – and especially in times like this, the National Council and the Federal Council at the head of this country – and we are elected by the people to show responsibility even in challenging times. Finally, I appeal to everyone: Let us decide on those projects that we have still set in motion together, we do not waste money and we do not hold any electoral sugar speeches here for the people! We are responsible and must not put this state back into a debt situation; we owe it to the Austrians. We will support this transitional government, and I appeal to your reason for stability in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5442	Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5463	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In medicine one speaks of a crisis when there is a dramatic turn in the course of a patient or a patient's illness, and precisely in such medical cases it is up to people to decide their knowledge properly on people in health professions who with empathy, their ability, their expertise. It's people who take responsibility at the right time. I would like to use the opportunity to do something here today, which is far too rare in politics, to say thank you. We all know that from the break-up of the turquoise-blue Federal Government a few weeks ago a government crisis arose in Austria. And if, in such a critical situation, ladies and gentlemen, no one takes responsibility, it is often only a very small step until this crisis becomes a bigger one, and therefore – not only in medicine, not only in the field of health, but also in politics, and especially there – people take responsibility to overcome the crisis and not to aggravate it. [[Abg. Haubner:... SPÖ...!]] That is why I am very grateful to Federal President Alexander Van der Bellen and you, Mrs Bundeskanzler, that you have fulfilled this great responsibility for our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know, Mrs. Dr. Bierlein, Mrs. Federal Chancellor – a speech that I like very well by the way – I am very pleased, especially personally and heartily, that for the first time a woman is at the head of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This is a historic day for Austria! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] Yes, in spite of all the challenges you have taken over this great task, you have taken on responsibility in the sense of the stategant and the people in our country, and this also applies to every minister and every minister here on the government bank today. This is not a matter of course, and this deserves all our respect for you all in this new federal government. Instead of staging, there is now a matter of fact, instead of being dialogueless, the conversation is at last at the heart of the discussion. There have been very appreciative talks with all the political groups in the last few days, for about a week or so – you mentioned it. There was above all a noticeable effort to find common solutions for now and the next four months. One should believe that this is a matter of course, but it is precisely what we, as Members of this House, have painfully missed in the last 18 months. I always felt that in this crisis in Austria, an independent expert government is the best way to restore stability and security. I can tell you that today I feel more than confirmed that this opinion and this approach we have had from the beginning was the right one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So far the show – and I am sure it will continue that way – is the best basis for the work in the coming months. I promise you, my hand and the hand of social democracy is stretched out to work constructively with you to restore the confidence of the Austrian population in politics. We can show that in the dialogue – together – we form an opinion and work together to implement it in order to improve the lives of Austrians. We Members of the House, ladies and gentlemen, have been elected to work, not to stop for four months. We take this responsibility with all due respect to the Austrians. We can also regain and strengthen confidence in politics with sensible and reasonable legislative initiatives, as we will be discussing them today and in the coming weeks. Let me briefly address some of these initiatives: We all know that the Ibiza video has severely shaken confidence in politics as a whole. There will need to be new rules on party transparency and party funding. In this video there was much to see and hear about, something was reported about, as well as the possible sale of Austrian drinking water. Even if you can now read that this may not have been meant to be so, we want to make sure: Our water must not be sold! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] In order to guarantee this, we propose writing the protection of our water into the Constitution and thus making privatisation legally impossible. Another point: We all know that 900,000 people have signed for non-smokers protection in Austria. What happened? – Your opinion has been ignored. In the coming weeks, we will have the opportunity here in the House to vote in favour of human health and not to highlight the small-cared exchange of interests. [[Abg. Haubner: How do you do this?]] No mother, no father would hesitate for a second if you asked her if her child should grow up in a smokeless environment or not. I'm really wondering: Why do some politicians deal so hard with this simple question? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important to strengthen and support the voluntary helpers in Austria, who take on responsibility – and also at night – on a daily basis. They know that the success of our country is also inseparably linked to the voluntary commitment of millions of Austrians. Hundreds of thousands of them are workers who willingly provide their leisure time – especially in Carinthia in the fight against forest fires – with their vacations in order to do this necessary voluntary work. If we support them, we strengthen this voluntary commitment and allow these people an exemption of five days with payment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to work together to restore confidence in politics in Austria! Let's go this way together! Let's prove that politics is different than we saw in the Ibiza video! That's not just our duty, that's our responsibility. Mrs. Federal Chancellor, I wish you and your entire Federal Government much strength, much joy and there and there also cheerfulness in your work. I look forward to the coming months and to our cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5562	Klubobmann Norbert Hofer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5584	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Our new Chancellor is a highly respected personality – I think that is completely undisputed. It is professionally very, very competent, probably – if I recall my previous participation in political life – the most competent personality at the head of a federal government. [[Abg. Rosary: Right!]] I should also like to stress her social competence. The discussions we were allowed to hold were marked by great target-orientedness. It was very quick to reach agreement when it came to finding a federal government that enjoys the respect of the House so that a majority can be guaranteed. Mrs. Federal Chancellor, you said you don't want to stage, you want to put expertise in the foreground. Oliver Hassencamp once said: “If you want to fill a theatre, the dramaturgy is used. To empty it, ideology is sufficient.” But I do not think that we should leave this in space, because ideology is what this house is all about. Various parties, different views of the world, and also the understanding of the worldly views of another party – that is what makes democracy in this House. That is why I believe that we always need ideology as a lighthouse of our actions. Although the question of staging plays a role in politics, of course, to a certain extent – I am not the opinion of Mr Kern, who says that it accounts for almost 100 percent – I think that it is necessary to put the policy of matters strongly in the foreground. The staging, the show, the acting, tactical considerations – all of this is, I think, too much in the foreground. I have the impression that many like to read Machiavelli; I would recommend Hesse, that makes life much easier. Mrs Bundeskanzler, you have addressed reliability, trust, stability, security and humanity. Faith, sincerity and reliability are important in the opposition and in the government. We have therefore decided not to take back some of the laws that have been passed. The former coalition parties have defended the decisions taken, even by their speakers here at the speaker's desk, and have underlined the benefits of all new decisions. This also concerns smoking, ladies and gentlemen. It is completely undisputed that smoking is unhealthy that kills smoking. We have, however, jointly decided on a scheme to ensure that the protection of young people is extended, ensuring that the host – who also invests in their own businesses – has the freedom of choice to conduct the local as a smoker or a non-smoking site; if it is conducted as a smoker’s site, then with separate areas and with corresponding ventilation facilities. – We have defended all of this wordfully here. I have the impression that there is a high degree of injustice. Just think about the statement of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who says: If the current scheme is to fall, the gastronomy, the hostess and the hostess will have to be paid back all the investments made so far – both for construction investments in smoking and non-smoking areas as well as for ventilation plants. It tells us today the Klubobmann of the ÖVP: no decisions that lead to high expenditure! – Are you aware of the extent to which the budget will be burdened if you bring down the previous smoker scheme and if the investment is to be reimbursed to each host? Perhaps someone today can say what this would really cost Mr Finanzminister. I am excited to see how you will vote when it comes to this point and whether the President of the Chamber of Commerce will not be heard or not. They accuse us of having a coalition with the SPÖ. Well, I should like to stress that in the issue of smoking protection, we recognize a similar – I do not want to say inaccuracy – a non-stringent procedure of the SPÖ. Remember the Danube Island Festival: The Donauinselfest is a successful event of SPÖ with many visitors, many enthusiastic people. There is a gastronomy fibble for the Danube Island festival, and in this fibula says: "OBJECTIVE!- Oh, my God! Each sales stand must offer all the products listed below from the house BAT (British American Tobago) for sale and have them in sufficient quantity.” – Here you can see several cigarette packs that need to be sold there. ‘Excluding gastrooutlets in the area of children’ – at least that is ensured. "The selling price of all tobacco and nicotine products must be at least 10 % higher than the usual traffic selling price! recommended price € 6,-” Do you know that if the non-smoker protection is a real concern to you, I would like to ask you to make another change and not force the gastronomy to sell cigarettes. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But let's say again, there was a coalition between SPÖ and FPÖ: There is no such coalition at federal level, and this would be claimed to be part of a non-clean election campaign. [[Intrusion of the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There is a free play of forces with the will of all the mandates in the house not to make unreasonable decisions and to decide things that cannot be presented in the budget, which will cause us great problems over the next few years. However, what we have already been able to picture in the budget in the negotiations can we also decide together. One thing I would like to put right, because once again from the speaker's desk it was said that the coalition had failed due to a video that caused the person shown in the video to have resigned – both people; the vice chancellor has resigned –: It wasn't about the video long ago, it was about the Ministry of the Interior. I can't stress that often enough. The question was: Who's running the Interior Ministry? And as a reason it was mentioned: There can be no freedom of movement for the Ministry of the Interior if it is possible to determine against the FPÖ. – It is not determined against the former Minister of the Interior; there are no such investigations. But what if, for example, the public prosecutor's office would become active in associations that concern the ÖVP? [[Abg. Jarolim: What about Mr Kloibmüller?]] Could that happen? I have the impression that this is in preparation. What would you have done with an internal minister of the ÖVP? Would that have had to go? Or how was it under Straster? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When Straster got his well-known problems, there was a black Interior Minister and an ÖVP Justice Minister. This argument was not understandable. The coalition has failed at the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, everything else is false. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You say regarding election that it is a wrong decision, on 29 October. September to vote because there would be too long a campaign. – It has only started one party in the election campaign, and that is the ÖVP, otherwise nobody. [[Rejoicing with representatives of FPÖ and SPÖ]] That's the only party. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] We will have a very short election campaign, a very fair election campaign, in September, because we are firmly convinced that most Austrians do not want to hear anything during the holiday season of election, but rather want to enjoy the summer season peacefully with the family; therefore we have chosen the date at the end of September, ladies and gentlemen. The ÖVP has coalitions with the SPÖ, with the FPÖ, with the Greens, with the NEOS, and I think that is all right in a democracy. I do not think we should now warn against all possible coalitions. You can't say either: Every coalition in which the ÖVP is not present is bad. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: From our point of view already!]] That would not be in the sense of our constitution, I would say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: That would be nice...!]] Of course, we have to say honestly what coalitions mean. Everyone has known that in a coalition between Turquoise and FPÖ, the government programme will be dealt with with with with with the individual points. One must also say what, for example, would mean a coalition of the ÖVP with the Greens, which content will then be represented – in immigration policy, in asylum policy, in the matter of the burden policy for motorists; one must say that honestly before – or a coalition with NEOS, who have a gratefully very liberal view of the world, but in pensions of course say: The state can no longer afford pensions in this form, that is, there must be cuts! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What?! Sorry? Hello?- Oh, my God!]] You only have to say it honestly beforehand, ladies and gentlemen, what the coalition means, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore believe that the path has not even begun. The path began with the development of a joint government programme. This program was the way. The path is still there, but you now apparently march in the opposite direction, and you still go on the left side of the road. I think that's a mistake. I wish you all the best, Mrs Bundeskanzler, for the responsible task. Mr Vice-Chancellor, keep yourself cheerful, it makes the Office's burden even easier. I wish you and all the members of the Federal Government all the best. I have a request to the Federal Minister for Defence: to rethink the question of closing the army security school, because I believe that young people are taking a chance with it. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Donmez.]] I wish all of us, ladies and gentlemen, more content and less dramaturgy. We've had enough of that in the last few weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5740	Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5762	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I really want to start with a big thank you, because I don't think it's natural to think about it in such times – I don't know how long you had time, some of you might not be very long – to take this step and say: Yeah, I'm here now, I take responsibility in such a difficult time. – Therefore, from my point of view and, I believe, from the point of view of many Austrians, I would like to thank you once again, dear members of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course also congratulations on this very honorable task! I have to say one thing: I have listened closely to the words of you, Mrs Bundeskanzler, and of you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and it is very beneficial to hear a statement of government, which, in turn, refers to a lot of fundamentals regarding our democracy and a lot of basics regarding our constitution and which puts it in the foreground. I believe that it is in such a time, quite of turbulence and It is very important to ensure reliability and to take responsibility for talking about what democracy, what parliamentarianism is and what our constitution is. I think it's good from the point of view of many people that rest comes back. There was rarely such a turbulent time in Austrian domestic policy. I had to look at the calendar today, when this video actually appeared, and I found that it's not even a month ago – if you imagine that it's not even a month ago, when all of Austrian internal policy is suddenly head-on! For us as people who are in politics, who constantly follow the news – even on Twitter and Facebook, possibly too much – it was already very difficult to follow the events every day. How difficult does it have to be for people, to experience politics only on the verge, to follow this whole event? I believe that it is very, very essential that you come back to rest now and that you – and this confidence I have, we have – have sunken the skills of our country in these months and lead them with a calm hand, as well. Far from party politics. It is a unique, unique opportunity in Austria that we have a government that has made the promise – to which people can also rely – that the off-party hacking and power games will happen, just from the thought of reliability and responsibility to our country and the Austrians. Yeah, that's New Land. It is not only constitutionally new country that we have here a government which, following a mistrust request from the Federal President, has been praised, it is also new country to have a government that itself says: We're not going to use our office to make party policy. I tell you quite honestly, I am very grateful to you, because in the past – precisely, but not only in the last few weeks and months – we have seen a lot of tactics and party politics, a lot of power games, a lot of actions and initiatives that have always pursued only one goal: to make the other bad, to wipe one out of another or to give itself an advantage. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, speak here in her speech of the reliability and also of the image of politics, then this must also apply to the House; and I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I am somewhat disappointed, which small-cared Hickhack you have given yourself back here today. I believe that a day like this, dedicated to a declaration of government in a very turbulent time, is not for one to judge one another, which one does not actually like, or falls into a rose war. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] It's a picture that we all give as politicians, and if the Ibiza video has shown us one, then that we don't just say: That's not how we Austrians are, but also: That's not how we're politicians! – In particular, this requires one thing: the trust of people goes to put all that that never happens again; that we here voluntarily submit to laws of transparency and control; that we voluntarily ensure with wise laws that we as politicians limit our own power and do not constantly try to expand it. This is also the basic idea of our federal constitution and liberal democracy: Control, transparency and also the commitment to the restriction of power – and not permanently the attempt to expand its own party political power. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Reliability and trust are what people expect. Reliability and trust also mean that it is not about power and tactics and power games, but about people's concerns. It's about propriety and it's about the future. We will debate this over the next few months, and I call on you to do so with responsibility and reason. We have proposed a pact of responsibility, which includes a self-commitment, not to take decisions that burden the budget. Now you can sort of trick around and say: Well, that's a kind of budget, you can do that! - I'm just saying: Don't open the Pandora's boxes! Very quickly a high-licensing started and very quickly it costs a lot of money at the end! One last thing: Reliability! – Reliability, and with that I am already concluding, also means that all people can rely on getting enough pension after a hard working life. Mr Hofer, I am very pleased that you are here and just say wrong, that we have NEOS. The aim is to reduce pensions. We are concerned that the boys must also be able to rely on a safe pension system if they have worked for a lifetime. I am sorry that in the last legislative period you have not fulfilled the responsibility of addressing this issue so important for the next generation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5852	Mr Klubobmann Zinggl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5873	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! First, a misunderstanding, which is constantly being spread by the ÖVP, has to be corrected: The people do not choose the Federal Government, neither theoretical nor practical, but the citizens choose their representation in Parliament and if Parliament finds a majority to support a government then it can work with this support. [[Abg. Wöginger: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Is not the ÖVP alone, there is more!]] 20 months ago, we voted, and a majority has found that a government has supported, but this majority has been lost about a month ago, and that is a normal democratic process. This is so in a democracy, and those who call it into question in principle are also calling democracy into question. Ladies and gentlemen, of course Parliament can do something else: It can pass laws. Especially now, in these weeks, Parliament is insisting that it can also pass laws that are not dictated by the government, which are not given by any lobbys and lenders in the background and in which no coalition agreements bind the free play of forces. This is living parliamentarianism, and if it is called casino parliamentarianism and the suspicion that it is always about electoral sugars, then those who claim it are clearly wrong. [[Abg. Little: What?- Oh, my God!]] In fact, election sugars can also be awarded by majority-stabilised governments, which has often been proven in the past. So there is nothing to do with the majority of Parliament' s present. Above all, however, laws can be passed in these weeks and months, which do not cost any money that does not affect taxpayers at all. These are laws on animal welfare, for example, and these are mainly laws on climate protection. We know that, in the context of climate protection, the current measures, as they are now available and as defined by the old government, are not sufficient, and we know that time is pressing and that we cannot wait until a new government may decide – or not – new climate change targets. It would actually avert damage from Austria if we were prepared to do something going there. If I point out that some major party has suddenly discovered its love for climate protection, then I can only say: Let's do it! Let us take the appropriate measures immediately! The applications are in progress and the time is running out. It is true that these measures not only cost nothing but even save the State money. These would be election gifts that, I think, would help everyone. But this has to be done – and the plastic sackerl is really a little too little for that – now, because when you fight in the election on posters in front of some big mountains and colorful meadows and with slogans like: We're for our environment! Select SPÖ/FPÖ/ÖVP! – or best all in common –, argues, then that is too little. Then we missed the time to make a election sugar, which helps to save at a zero rate. Equally effective would be the legislation on party financing. That's an hour's commandment. All parties have put forward proposals – we know that – but only one party, a political group, namely we, have the two important, efficient legislative proposals inside: On the one hand, this is the Court of Auditors' control and, on the other hand, criminal payments and sanctions when the election costs are exceeded. It doesn't matter who brought it in, we just have to decide. But when I listen to the parties, I hear, and not even behind the hand: We're not gonna do that! Don't let us look at our party funds! This should be said by an entrepreneur at a tax check. I think that's a completely wrong argument. Why can't the parties be examined? What is the reason for this? In my opinion, there is a timetable before and after Ibiza, and the view: Just right now!, is the most imaginable bad attitude in the period after. That means that justice should remain the same as it is. However, this one-time opportunity would be over, over for a long time, the opportunity to show that we are not the way it seems in the international public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5936	I call Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e5958	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians! First of all, I wish the ladies and gentlemen on the government bank all the best and, above all, great success in the exercise of government responsibility, but also the necessary energy for the next few months. We will fully support you wherever you put in place the necessary measures that are good and right for our Austria. Thank you for taking over this responsible task! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, of course, politics is also there to express the different opinions and views. Parliament too is here for this, and that is why we will not all always be so kind to each other, but we will represent our positions with the necessary verve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide that I am firmly convinced that by means of this pact for the removal of our successful Chancellor and his team in our country, Red and Blue have been declared a standstill. [[Abg. Schimanek: My God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Red and blue have acted against the will of the people and against the will of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and these are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not make any sense that I, as a learnt democrat and as a person who always wants to move something, prefer a government elected by the population to a transitional government, and I believe that I can also well justify it. [[Abg. Jarolim: Move the short here!]] We need a government of politicians to shape it – we have demonstrated impressively in the last two years that we can – if we want to continue internationally. A transitional government made up of officials can only manage as you have said – and you will surely do so in your responsibilities. If you go through Austria with open eyes and ears, you know that the Austrians want a government to take measures that bring impetus to the country and to the people. The result of the EU election of 26. May speaks a clear language and confirms this view, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As part of my constituencies, people have expressed their incomprehension with regard to decommissioning, because they do not understand that important measures, such as the tax reform that we wanted to relieve small and medium-sized incomes, are now not put out of party-political calculation. [[Abg. Singer: That was your calcule! It was your calcule!]] Let us look at the international voices: For example, the location ranking of the Swiss institute IMD shows that Austria's policy has improved by four places in its subvaluation. The reforms carried out are justified. And also Moody’s credit rating agency made a fine statement to Causa in the previous week. According to the analysts, the end of the turquoise-blue government has a negative effect on Austria's credit quality outlook. The reason: There is now a risk that fiscal consolidation and the associated positive reforms will no longer be continued. Ladies and gentlemen! As economic spokesperson of my party – and we are all economic operators – I say to you: We need stable conditions and no locational standstill – and now we have been pushed into this standstill by SPÖ and FPÖ. [[Abg. Hauser: But you have practised it with the SPÖ for decades!]] Standstill is the worst variant for the development of our Austria. [[Abg. Houses: Always these fakes from the pult!]] I say again: This red and blue pact to abolish the Federal Government has just called this standstill – and I find that to be without responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The once so proud SPÖ – and I come to you – has only acted out of revenge and anger, ladies and gentlemen, according to the motto: [[towards SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Chancellor short has to leave! [[Abg. Lighten: Yes, where is he now?]] Whoever has a little house mind, however, also knows that revenge and anger are very bad counselors. But you insist on the SPÖ with breathtaking security in the past under your motto: First the party and then the Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You have not yet understood that you must not serve your own officials first, but that it is about the well-being of the citizens in our home country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Thanks to the efforts of the Austrians and the right measures taken by this Federal Government, we have brought our Austria to a very good conclusion: no new debts, no new taxes and a zero deficit for the first time in over 60 years. Let us be careful that in the next few months the good and right path for Austria will not be left here by populist and arrogance-driven applications here in the house! The Austrians deserved that they quickly regain a elected federal government. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6163	Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6185	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are in an exceptional situation – I want to give right to all those who claim it so, it is really extraordinary – but we must already question how we got into this situation and clean up with these ÖVP propaganda myths that are brought when it comes to why we are here now. Yeah, there was this video. This video has shown whose mind child may be some politicians. But there was also the ÖVP-Obmann – who, by the way, and I ask you how you deal with it, is too good for working here in this House, ladies and gentlemen – so there was also the ÖVP-Obmann, who has twice driven a government to the wall within 17 months, who has made unnecessarily a principle that has been too good for promoting trust that has tried to set up an ODP-only government with 31 percent. So who is responsible for that?, I ask you. Who is responsible for these new elections? – That was you and your partyobmann, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It was a majority of the representatives elected by the people – elected by the people, representatives of the people – who gave the right answer on behalf of their voters, namely this single government – with 31 percent – to express distrust. That was the right answer to what you did, ladies and gentlemen. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Singer.]] And now we are in a new phase, an interesting phase. Yes, the Federal Chancellor rightly said in her speech: This house here, the Austrian National Council, is the center of democracy in Austria. And all those who are afraid of this situation now, I ask: Why are you afraid of this situation? It is the best thing for Members to be free to advertise ideas, to be able to make free compromises, to seek free majority. That is the essence of parliamentarianism! What is there for a reason to be afraid of that? What are you afraid of? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the election was also such a compromise: ==References====External links== September, the JETZT list wanted a later date – the compromise is 29 September. September. That is the essence of the compromise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, the Austrians do not expect to stand still for good reason, not blockade – this is the same for this transitional phase – they expect sensible decisions from which Austria benefits. You have your hand, for example, what happens to the smoking ban. What about it, ÖVP? Does the Federal Chancellor's word apply? – You can now prove this with your voting behaviour. Is the word of the ÖVP Partyman that you agree? – Show it today! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] The same is true of the water. Water is a human right, and we must do everything we can to ensure that large groups benefit from drinking water in our country and that it is no longer available to Austrians. [[Abg. Schimanek: Well, I don't think so, I don't think water is a human right! I think a lot, but I don't think so!]] Why do we demand this privatisation stop? – We demand it because you have already started it. What are the Federal Forests doing under your responsibility? – They are already beginning to spoil water, ladies and gentlemen, so it needs this privatisation stop for drinking water. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tiny]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is equally important for people in Austria to be able to live again on good conditions, that living is again manageable. Everyone has the right to live in a quiet place. In the time of your government, in the time of the ÖVP FPE coalition, over the past 17 months, the rents have just increased enormously. [[Abg. Rosary: Especially in Vienna!]] It also needs courage and responsibility to turn this situation to a better one. We use this time so that people can live in good quality at good prices again – whether in the countryside or in the city! Ladies and gentlemen, this too is something we can now tackle, where there are these majority groups. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also about 3.6 million workers in the country who have not had any weight in their political implementation in the last 17 months. [[Abg. Small: In the discharge of income, family bonus!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is time for those people who get up and work hard at early times to make politics again – and not for those who let their money work for themselves, as you have done in the last 17 months, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Crashes and intermediate calls to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strasser: That's what you've got from our party program!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We are in an extraordinary phase of parliamentarianism in Austria. We are in a phase in which there are opportunities and opportunities to improve people's lives. We are at a time when we can work hard for it here in the House. But this needs two things: This requires a sense of responsibility and courage – and I wish this to this House for the next few months. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6358	Mr Klubobmann Rosenkranz is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6379	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! We've already noticed a little campaign. Mr Wöginger said that blue-red was already at the door. – Dear Gust Wöginger – you will certainly hear it – blue red is really unsurpassed in a combination, namely, when you press blue grapes in Austria and red wine comes out in excellent quality; but in addition, it is quite possible to discuss, especially when you have just heard the class-warring sounds of Mr. Leichtfried. [[Abg. Lightenness: Thank you for the compliment!]] It is not a question of dividing entrepreneurs and employees, but rather of pressing for common ground here. Since Mr Haubner – and I also see him not here in the hall – mentioned what this Federal Government has done, I would just like to remind you of one thing: It is not this federal government that is sitting here today and explaining itself, but it was the turquoise-blue federal government with Chancellors short at the top. Now he says he's actually a victim. So he will move through the country as a victim in the coming months. [[Abg. Lightness: Your victim!]] He even refused this debate by not accepting his National Council mandate, even though he was elected by the Austrians who elected him. Gust Wöginger said one thing: He spoke to a SPÖ trailer, a railway widow, and now she chooses briefly. [[Abg. Hoefinger: He didn't say that!]] [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't say!]] That's from the old clothes collection. I can make it clear by my own example: In the last few days I have talked to a lot of people from the ÖVP who have said that they will no longer vote for ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, they have read one thing: the comment of a doyen of journalism in the field of Austrian domestic policy – Hans Winkler of the “Small Newspaper”. Hans Winkler is not suspected of being a follower of the liberals with God, he is a conservative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Just a very short quote: “Sebastian Kurz didn’t have the nerves, the far-sightedness and not the right advisor to continue the coalition with FPÖ.” – I think that’s true, too. I think Sebastian Kurz actually wanted to continue this coalition because, as Mr Haubner described it, she has just carried on so much good, right and important for this country – and that should not be put at risk. I think he was, to a certain extent, also driven by ÖVP-functionaries and so-called Grands – probably especially from the west of our beautiful Republic – who simply did not want this coalition with the FPÖ and therefore said: Now try to drive a cone in so it might work as well as with bowls and the FPÖ is destroyed! But this has not been successful and will not succeed, thanks to the careful guidance of our Norbert Hofer, who will also lead us to the National Council election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To this Federal Government – and I am now referring to the esteemed members of the Federal Government, who are sitting here today in front of the House and who are also giving opinions and statements: There has been a great deal of talk about respect, humanity and the high level of expertise, which has on the one hand been brought by the highest judges and also by the highest, under quotations, “inadvertent” of the Republic, I am thinking of President Peschorn, and on the other hand by government servants in the best sense of the word from the ministries, who simply know political life, political everyday life. It was also a process that the President of the Federal Republic initiated – and not as Sebastian Kurz did, who simply threw his ÖVP government to Parliament and said: Here you now have my ministers!, to do so with these signals; the media have meant – that must be broken on the tongue – a section leader who has left the SPÖ is a sign for the SPÖ to support this government. You have to create this thought. There is therefore today this government, and there has already been a great deal of talk about the spirit of the Constitution. We can be truly happy about what Hans Kelsen did in 1920, or about the role of the President of the Federal Republic, who was just included in our constitution in 1929. At that time, the chancellor of John Schober, who was associated with the Third Camp, was also a coalition between the Third Camp and the Christian Social Party, which moved Austria to be such a secure state of constitutional law. In my opinion, all the unacknowleds that democracy in Austria should be at risk are also disintegrating with this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Wherever a trip with the cabinet Kurz II would have gone, that has already been seen in the Ministry of the Interior. One of the first measures was that this 1.50 euro regulation on the payment of asylum seekers in the public sector was immediately re-captured. Dear Austrians, be vigilant what happens! It was the FPÖ's course that ensured that uncontrolled mass immigration in that country was held against the general EU trend. If you want to continue, hopefully you know who you have to choose. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My previous speaker from my group, Klubobmann Hofer, has already meant that he would like the Minister of Defence to think about his decision regarding the security school in Wiener Neustadt. I have prepared here a little help in thinking, namely a request, a motion for a resolution by Mr Bösch, Mr Hammer, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Stocker and other Members on 'Retaining the security school in Wiener Neustadt'. What is happening here is an intervention into a government programme, with the Federal Government saying that it should not be made policy. It was a project of the past Federal Government, stood in the Government Convention, an agreement between the State Defence and the Education Region concerning a school type, for a differentiated school system. Especially in the field of vocational higher schools we are world champions in Austria. This created a school type, and it is now simply deleted at once, although budgetly financed. This is a great injustice for about 50 – I think it is a total of 53 – students who are registered there who are confident in the registration and who have been approved to look forward to a school career – which is now being reclassified with a strike. A self-confident Parliament, as it has already been mentioned, has to proceed with a motion for a resolution. I can therefore also make the request for a presentation: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These corrections will be made to this self-confident Parliament – and I am pleased that many legislative initiatives are taking place here. Until the next election or until the appointment of a new Federal Government, much will continue in Austria because we owe it to the citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:42]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6563	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6587	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, much of confidence has already been said – you, Mrs. Federal Chancellor, have expressly mentioned this – and also about reliability. This is no wonder either, for reliability and trust in the government, in the law-making body, in the administration, these are the basic prerequisites for peaceful living together in a state. The need for trust is particularly important in one area: That's jurisdiction. You can imagine, of course, that I am particularly pleased that by asking both of you to take up an office in this transitional government, I also expressed confidence in jurisdiction, because this trust is essential, is essential. [[towards Federal Chancellor Bierlein and Vice Chancellor Jabloner]] However, trust in jurisdiction is something special: It differs from trust in the government, it differs from trust in the administration. In the case of jurisdiction, what has been stated for the first time in English decisions: Not only must be done; it must be displayed to be done. – It is not enough for justice to be produced, and justice must also be visible. In other words, for the courts, it is necessary that there is not the appearance of an improper influence that there is the impression that courts are actually independent that judges are incorruptible that judges are uncaptured. In Austria, the prosecution is also part of the jurisdiction. If you include the prosecutor's office, three requirements for this confidence in jurisdiction are particularly important: The first is institutional independence; the second is sufficient financial resources; and the third – not just the public prosecutor – is a selection of judges, the prosecutors alone according to objective, objective criteria, without the suspicion that there is party-political influence here. On institutional independence: We have a very large construction site – and this is the prosecutor's office. The Procuratorate is still a member of the government, the Minister of Justice, as a leader. This not only contradicts the separation of violence, it also appears to influence the government, as if it were possible for members of the government to influence it. Therefore, it is necessary to release the prosecutor's office. In the National Council there is a request for the establishment of a state attorney. We have tabled a deadline request to ensure that this is actually implemented. I would like to mention a second construction site, which concerns the selection of staff: There is an area of ordinary jurisdiction in which there must be no decision by the staff Senate to appoint someone for a position, which is the President of the Supreme Court and the Vice-Presidents. There's something to do, too. My appeal to you, Mr Justice Minister, who knows the situation very well, but also to you all, is to do something! We are in the historically unique situation that no party can assume that it will certainly appoint the Minister of Justice in the next government. Perhaps it's better, it's an independent personality at the head of the prosecutor's office. You never know if You get to do it with her once. In this sense, I hope that it will be agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6638	Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6660	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Yes, we write these days story: For the first time, a Federal Chancellor in this Parliament has declared himself. For the first time, a government consists of equal parts of men and women. [[Call the ÖVP:No! Wrong!]] For the first time in history, one can also speak of a real separation of state powers, just as our Constitution provides for, for this government can act freely and independently of party political constraints and free and independent of electoral considerations. That's important. This is important, therefore, because we have seen where party governments lead us, because we have seen party governments treat the state and our tax money like their property, as they try on the one hand to corrupt any tax money and state power on Russian oligarchs, and on the other hand, through turquoise election promises, the party donors who have financed heavily in the election campaign into the party apparatus. [[Abg. Zarits: What is this talk?]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] It is equally important, by the way, that the government is faced with effective control in the form of a parliament of democratically elected representatives of the people who can control this government. This is exactly what a democratically elected Parliament I see in front of me: Yes, we are here, and yes, we are capable of action, more than ever before – just right now, ladies and gentlemen! My appeal is to the colleagues from SPÖ and ÖVP, of course also to the colleagues from the Free Trade Unions: Please be glad you got rid of the black-Turkish gag! Let us be glad that you can finally implement your ideas without premeditation and without flaws, that we can make decisions together in the free play of forces, which are more important to the well-being of the population and behind which the population can stand far more than in any five-year plan could somehow be the case! I'm sure we'll find these majorities. A number of applications have already been submitted today, and we will also make a number of requests. [[Abg. Zarits: The last!]] There will be changing majority groups, there will be a free play of forces, but it will ultimately be the population that will benefit. The crisis here from the ÖVP and Sebastian Kurz's campaign office is not a crisis. No, it is a huge opportunity that this Parliament will be filled with life and that we can make decisions in the interests of the population. [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. It's funny.]] We will not allow this reigning federal government to be represented and stamped as a transitional government with chair warmer function. No, we won't let that happen! [[Interlocutors Gerstl and Steinacker.]] This Parliament must not spend the hour of truth in some way in the nightfall and only somehow spend the time until the election. No, this Parliament must benefit from exactly these months! We have been elected, and we have the opportunity to make decisions in the interests of the population. As there are twenty problems outside, you would not otherwise have been a coalition agreement, otherwise there would not be any problems every day. There are problems: There are still hundreds of thousands of people living in poverty. The care system is really on the border, people can no longer afford care. The working conditions are miserable. Why should these problems be postponed until the next election? I don't see it, and people out there don't see it either. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fürlinger, Mr Steinacker and Mr Minzig.]] On the other hand – as Mr Nehammer said on television in a discussion round – we still have to impose on ourselves a constitutional law to disarm ourselves as a parliament, which does not have any basis, and we will not carry that in any way. We will therefore make a number of requests today and, of course, ask the political groups, depending on whether this corresponds to their programmes, whether that corresponds to their idealism, their idea of a society, to take them along. As I have already mentioned: Finally, let's end the creeping devaluation of the care money! People out there no longer have the opportunity to take care of the care money they have available at all. Let's end the creeping devaluation at all levels of care! Let's finally implement the promised maintenance security! If there's such a hustle and bustle here: Yes, with this idea, I may be nervous about you, but that was the promise of all the political groups in this House. Make sure that children no longer have to live in poverty! We can do this here, we only have to finally do it and vote for it. Let us set the goal of social justice in our constitution! New Zealand has proposed it as one of the first countries and has won international recognition for it. Why don't we do something like this? Let us see that in an area that has always been kept very small in this country, namely in the field of animal welfare and the question of how we deal with our animals, we are finally making improvements! I have also tabled three proposals, and I hope that they will be supported, namely: Let's finally end the castration of piglets without stunning! Let's see that the millions-time shredders and carcases of freshly hatched male chicks – simply because their breeding is not profitable – are stopped immediately! And the third big point: It must finally be over with full flooring in the agricultural industry, in the pig mast, that is animal pain! We in here have the opportunity to do something. You're all elected and I'm elected, so we'll use this opportunity to vote and we'll implement it accordingly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6754	Mr Starlinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6775	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of security school there is already an invitation to all speakers for this Friday, since we can discuss all the implications associated with it. One thing I can already anticipate: that by this measure, which is in conjunction with the very worrying state of the Austrian federal army and the risk of a future guarantee of the security of the Austrian population, as well as the sparing use of taxpayers, of the children concerned in no way; and How a professional wish is denied and appropriate schools are already guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6802	The Minister for the Interior, Dr. Wolfgang Peschorn, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6826	High house! Mr President. Dear Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very great honour for me today to be able to speak here in front of you as the Federal Minister for the Interior. At the beginning of my remarks, I would particularly like to thank President Dr. Van der Bellen and Mrs. Federal Chancellor Dr. Bierlein for his confidence in me. I am aware of the great responsibility that this office brings with it. With your trust, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to ensure that the laws are implemented properly and cleanly. In order to deal with these tasks, I will rely in particular on my previous experience as Head of the Financial Procuratorship, where I now have to leave my loyal employees alone for the time of my ministry. I have exercised this function over the past 13 years and have been obliged, for 29 years, as a lawyer of the Republic of Austria, to the rule of law and the interests of the citizens of that country. In 2008, with my team, I was at the top of those who had to deal with the financial market crisis in the Republic of Austria and who were actually able to avert the existential dangers associated with it from Austria. Only a fraction of the activities of the Financial Procuratorship have become publicly known in recent years. Nevertheless, it has been clear that our recommendations were always professionally and objectively well-founded and could be turned away from the Republic of Austria by this damage. That's how I want to keep it in my role now. Decisions by top-level bodies must be based on a professionally sound basis and must be objectively comprehensible to everyone. This is not just a constitutional requirement, but the citizens of this country can rightly expect it from a Minister of the Interior. As Minister of State, I am an executive body. I see it as my primary task to ensure that all high-quality transactions are delivered in my area of activity. According to Article 18 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the entire state administration must be carried out on the basis of the laws. This constitutional arrangement is the core of the rule of law of Austria. In my opinion, there is no contradiction between administration and form. Administration is the design within the framework of the laws. Rule of law is a great asset. It is the achievement of our country after the horrors of the 20th century. ==References== This achievement must not only be defended in all directions, but must also be ensured by the daily execution. On this basis there is much to do, because the state and its institutions have to prove themselves to be the rule of law, especially as this guarantee is for the fundamental freedoms of each individual. The Great Austrian Empire Sche Psychoanalyst Viktor Frankl rightly formulated: ‘Freedom threatens to be found in arbitrariness to the extent that it is not held responsible.’ When handling my tasks, I will rely on my employees. The employer's duty to be loyal to his/her duty to take care of him/her. Those who are conscientiously fulfilling their duties can rely on my full support, for a functioning and just common good requires more than ever loyal State servants. In my previous career, I was allowed to get to know and appreciate many loyal officials and contract staff in all areas – from Burgenland to Vorarlberg. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is considered to be a safe country in a worldwide comparison. That is not a matter of course. This is mainly due to the tireless work done by over 29,500 police officers and the 6,400 staff in the administration of my department. The focus of the tasks of the Federal Ministry of the Interior is far and wide, ranging from police, security administration, asylum and migration, civil protection, citizenship and national elections to civil service. In my view, it is now my duty to take part in the framework conditions that our Republic is still one of the safest countries in the world. I therefore immediately tried to give myself an overview of my department and the challenges ahead, so that on this basis I would then decide on a technical basis how the employees can best fulfil their legal tasks in the interests of the state. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] As the Federal Minister for the Interior, I have the special task of working together with the employees of the Centre for the Safety of the Austrian Population. My tasks, of course, also require action at EU level, as issues such as security or migration can no longer be dealt with nationally alone. There is a wide range of issues that need to be carefully progressed in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen! According to Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Law, the right goes from the people. In this sense, I therefore see my role as Minister of the Interior in the implementation of the laws adopted by you, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the people, in order to ensure a legal and responsible execution. This corresponds to the division of power in our state, whose functioning is also a dialogue between the legislative and the executive. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and JETZT, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am very happy to invite you to do so, and I am looking forward to a good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6902	Mr Karl Mahrer has now been spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e6924	Madam President. Dear Austrians! High house! Dear Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! I would like to congratulate you at the beginning on your new functions, wish you good luck in the exercise of these functions and respect your decision to take over this task. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, this idea of the Federal Government may also be an opportunity to give the Austrians answers to questions I hear again and again when I am on the go. The one question is, for example: Why was it that the Federal Government, supported by 60 percent of the population, who worked under the leadership of Sebastian Kurz in a government coalition of ÖVP and FPÖ, could not continue to work? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Many Austrians wonder who is actually responsible for the fact that this government could not work anymore. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] [[Call the SPÖ: short!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to give this answer in the presence of Herbert Kickl, but unlike Sebastian Kurz, who has renounced his mandate and travels to the people of the country, Herbert Kicklheute is not present at all in the presentation of this federal government. [[Objection to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Hauser: This is a disdain of Parliament!]] Herbert Kickl misses this important debate. I'm sorry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the Austrians, from my point of view, Herbert Kickl, with his very extraordinary personality, if I can express that which did not realize that this scandal of Ibiza video is simply not to work out with the resignations of Vice Chancellor Strache and Clubobmann Gudenus and, in particular, is not to be explained in full transparency. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Hauser: Who wrote the speech to you?- Oh, my God!]] It was Herbert Kickl, who did not want to accept that the investigations on a causa concerning his time as FPÖ Secretary General could not be conducted under his leadership at the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Haider:... a little bit of a layer printer, gal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was Herbert Kickl who did not allow an independent expert to lead the Ministry of the Interior at that time and to take a different place in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Schimanek: Ma please, this is a total nonsense...!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was from my point of view - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7073	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you a call for an order for 'total insanity'. [[Abg. Schimanek: For nonsense?- Oh, my God!]] [[Call the FPÖ: This is a fool!]] I call for the debate to continue in the same way as the dignity of the House. [[Abg. Haider: Is the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7139	Unfortunately, this call has made clear what the problem is, namely the non-existent willingness of the FPÖ – facilitated by Herbert Kickl – to recognize and act upon the dimension of this scandal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that was the reason why Sebastian Kurz had no other choice at all. [[Abg. Hauser: The total power requirement of the ÖVP, that is the Ursa-che!]] Yes, it was not a wish, it was a necessity to propose new elections to the President of the Federal Republic. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The Austrians ask themselves further: Why is there a surprising red-blue pact? Why is this red and blue pact not in line with the request of our Federal President to present the good of the Republic to the welfare of the party? [[call to the FPÖ.]] Why are Sebastian Kurz and the entire Federal Government completely unscathed in an unprecedented act? People also wonder why we do not choose earlier. The Federal President expressed the wish to vote in early September. The red-blue pact will probably prevent this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of progress in the field of security, in a successful coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ. We have decided on the highest security budget of the Second Republic, the security package with measures to combat crime and terrorism, and many effective measures to combat illegal migration – but it remains very much to do. Violence in the family, organisational challenges in the Interior Ministry, the fight against organised crime – there are many, many open construction sites. This includes, among other things, the request for the preservation of the security school in Wiener Neustadt, which I also support and which I would just like to mention in this round. Ladies and gentlemen! This transitional government is set up with the aim of ensuring the proper management of the administration up to the formation of a new Federal Government after the re-election. I am convinced that the highly esteemed members of this federal government will also be able to cope well – but no more and no less. It was only yesterday that Minister of the Interior Dr. Peschorn invited the security spokespersons to a first meeting and to a meeting of the open topics in the Ministry of the Interior; it was a really very, really good meeting with the Federal Minister and it shows that he is also dedicated to the tasks with acribie and commitment. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] I therefore see cooperation with the representatives of this transitional government very positive, but I see it as what it is: a transitional solution. I am looking forward – and I am at the conclusion – to reaching the goal that we urgently need with the people in this country: a federal government that can make comprehensive and sustainable and pursue the path that many people in this country have taken. Ladies and gentlemen, now red-blue has decided, in September the Austrians will decide.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7212	Next item is the report by Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7237	Madam President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is really a special day, and I would like to express my highest regard for this federal government right at the outset. – You have done a great deal of damage to this Republic, and I would like to thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I also say quite openly that after two years it is very beneficial to see that no one plays with the phone here on the government bank. I just want to say this on the verge. That is very beneficial! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Now to Mr. Ex-Kanzler, who has caused this crisis, the causer of why we are meeting here today, is: He'll probably sit on the couch today, have a good coffee and ask himself what are they talking about? [[Abg. Hammer: He's not watching you!]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] What are they talking about? – And this is also the reason, ladies and gentlemen, why he did not come to Parliament: It does not need this Parliament. I say from this point of view: This is very serious and democratically dangerous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We don't let the former chancellor out, either, because he considered the Republic to be his game ball, and within 17 months he split two governments into the air – without regard for losses! There are still very prominent helpers here in the hall without having to name them. Let's ask ex-Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner, because that was really bad played along, ladies and gentlemen very much appreciated! – Yes, you do not need to laugh, that was inappropriate how you dealt with this Lord! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I come a bit to the compassion of the ex-chanter: In short, he has had to swallow so much in the last few months. Ladies and gentlemen, I have long considered whether to say the following, and I have decided to say it: In short, a very wrong fifties! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Hello!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] He didn't swallow anything down at all. In January he ordered advertising because he knew exactly that we would vote in autumn. That means that briefly these elections have broken down, and for that he has the responsibility to take over, my very much valued colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] He said: “Genuine is enough!” – But now quite honestly, ladies and gentlemen, also the Freedom Party: When you put yourself in bed with the liberals, you need to know how and than what you get minted. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] So he doesn't need to be surprised! The strache video was the trigger, it was inconvenient, it was dejective and it was really the allerial last. This is not the case with the boffen class, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, because only what is in the head can come out of the mouth – and there is no excuse for that. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Hairer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] You now have a huge task in front of you, namely that the street does not go to Brussels; and I would like you to do so, because it is not good for the mafia spirit to move into a democratic house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Strache and Gudenus are a shame for Austria, there we all agree. [[Abg. Hauser: But you forgot the silver stone!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Madam President, can he actually say everything? That's incredible!]] The last 17 months have been very strenuous and very difficult for workers – even today we have heard this. It is remarkable that, above all, the highest employee representatives of the Blacks, the current Clubman, have always been on the front line when it came to harming the workers to take away something, to worsen them. Whether this was the working time scheme or the destruction of social security, the Wöginger Gust has always been the first to show. I have once described him as the traitor of the workers, and I would like to repeat this today: Yes, August Wöginger, as an ÖVP Klubobmann, betrayed the workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: He doesn't believe that himself!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There are very few exceptions to what I can say that it was happening that you did it. For example, the family bonus was basically useful and good, but you deliberately forgot about the people involved in small incomes. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] It cannot be that if you earn 3,000 euros, you get 1,500 euros per child until the third child, but if you earn 1,200 euros, you look through your fingers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that, of course, we will assume responsibility and promise our electorate to correct this, because for us, every child must be the same as we are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits:... 20 percent!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Another point is the pensions. Yes, we did, years ago, as a result of the ÖVP-pension fetish, let ourselves be pulled over the table. But now we see that it really means a problem, because if you've worked 47 years as a worker, as an employee and go at 62 years of age, because you can't, then you've got 15.3 percent off of a pension of 1,600 euros. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is not what we wanted, ladies and gentlemen. In this regard, it should be corrected! Those who have worked for 45 years and have paid in pension insurance must not have any discounts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They have passed the block-time agreement of the age-part-time. [[Abg. New builder: that's what you decided!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This was the only way to get workers who could not really be retired. You've changed that, too. You've left with it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On working time – to complete it here –: You told the people when you had the 12 hours hanged them that there would be a four-day week. [[Abg. Houses: Five...!]] – Nothing has come, ladies and gentlemen. We want and demand the right to a genuine four-day week for colleagues. Another sentence on social security: I warned you. I asked: Why does ÖVP make you the wall, why does it support you? I said they just want the posts there. And now it's happened – Gerald, we both talked once –: [[towards Abg. Hauser]] Now all the Director-Generals and all the Deputy Director-Generals are occupied by the ÖVP, but there are still different benefits for the insured. A clear requirement is that our workers and employees receive the same services as the officials, politicians and contract staff. This is what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Little: Under... you didn't want it!]] – It’s already a difference, Mrs. tiny, whether you get 350 euros as a politician for your beautiful crown or if the Billa salesman gets 0 euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] This is unfair and we want to fight against it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the following is addressed to the EIA: The surveys are now on your side – yes! – you are acting and playing at the expense of our democracy, you are sometimes very obscene, because you are quite sure, but – I tell you – pride comes before the case. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hammer]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7565	Mr Hans-Jörg Jenewein is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7586	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mrs. Federal Chancellor! It is not easy to speak after such a previous speaker. It is likely that 60,000 people have now turned away because what has come from Mr Wimmer was difficult to bear. [[Call the SPÖ:No, great!]] I can assure you, however, that no person wants to put himself in bed with you – that is clear. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have now arrived at exactly the point in the debate, why there is a transitional government in this House today, because the ÖVP wanted to use this crisis which the Republic has hit, in order to finally put the Ministry of the Interior back in black. That's why it finally happened. It has been a question of being able to continue to cultivate the black networks that exist in the Ministry of the Interior. It was a question of continuing to follow the path that ÖVP has taken in the Ministry of the Interior for the past 18 years. If one of my previous speakers is here, he says, Well, that was so difficult, because Herbert Kickl would not have been able to find out!, I can already remind you that there are high-ranking section heads that there are high-ranking officials in the Ministry of the Interior, all of whom are to be found at the ÖVP, against which proceedings are still under way against which criminal proceedings are likely to be brought. Also this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, was with a reason why you have done nothing but what you have done in the past in the final effect. Let us not forget, it is reserved in the last decades of the ÖVP to break new elections from the fence again and again, when the surveys are just positive for the ÖVP, to flee in new elections to tact here. Democracy does not play a role in you, and neither does public policy responsibility take priority; in you, it is purely party policy tactics. These are the motives you've always pursued. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us come to the topic of internal policy in Austria! The Minister of the Interior made it clear in his opening speech, in his statement here. The house you are now leading is of course one with a great responsibility, and the problems are great. When we consider that the ORF two days ago, on the 10th. June, of a massive, exorbitant increase in asylum figures, this shows how important and how necessary a prudent leadership is in the Ministry of the Interior. If we alone have a 36 percent increase in Afghan asylum seekers in 2019, then we also hear and see, of course, that this whole March, that these whole stories of the fact that asylum problems in this Republic no longer play a role, because the figures are slowly but surely against zero, simply do not correspond to reality. That's what we see! We have an ascent from Afghanistan, we again have an increased ascent over the routes on the Western Balkans and – you hear and marvel! – we also have a relatively strong rise from Latin America, where – but perhaps I didn’t watch well enough in geography – it would be completely new that Austria has a direct border with Latin American states. So how these people legally come to Europe in respect of how these people legally come to Austria, does not quite get me involved. We need, of course, a determined policy, which clearly shows and says: We don't look away! We will defend ourselves if we try to take advantage of grey zones – political grey zones, legal grey zones – in order to speak the word of illegal migration! The year 2015 is still in our best memory, and I do not want to experience such situations as we had to experience them back then. Mr Herbert Kickl, Minister of the Interior, was a guarantee for this: He was a guarantee for this political paradigm change. He was a guarantee for this, and it took no 48 hours after being politically sacrificed by Sebastian Kurz on the pressure of the old ÖVP to take back essential decisions of this Minister of the Interior – decisions that had already been taken! Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is not in the hall now, but it was already taken with the ÖVP to pay 1,50 Euro as an hourly wage for non-profit work in public space. Nothing else did Herbert Kickl want to do. The ÖVP has reversed this in the final effect, namely a Minister of the Interior of the ÖVP, to whom this House has expressed distrust; this should also be said clearly at this point. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we are also discussing today the problem of the increasing numbers of asylum in Austria, we should also remember that around 80 percent of the people already in an asylum procedure are simply lying to the Austrian authorities and not telling them the truth about their true origin. Around 80 per cent of these people try to hide their identity, around 80 per cent of these people try to cover up a residence permit in Austria and thus in the European Union. Of course, we need a determined policy, which says: No, we don't want that! We don't look away: We will draw a red line here, and whoever is not willing to act according to these laws, according to Austrian laws, has lost his residence status in Austria, he must be postponed. Herbert Kickl has also shown quite clearly at European level to the European partners during the Austrian Presidency, saying that we do not want to contribute to the policy pursued by the European Union in the field of asylum and tourism in recent years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to see from the European Union that the laws that we have given ourselves are, of course, also complied with and that we do not somehow accept with half-closed eyes certain things that simply do not comply with the law. I have quite optimistic access that this path can be continued with you, Mr. Interior Minister, but I also warn colleagues of the ÖVP: Extensive You do not have this bow, because in 2017, you held an election campaign based on preferring a policy in the security field, in the asylum field, but you were never prepared to take on political responsibility for it. This has been demonstrated by this transitional government, by this 31-percent government, which Mr Sebastian Kurz wanted to install here as an ODP government alone. I would like to tell you quite openly, clearly and clearly: If the EIA leaves the path of this restrictive internal policy, then we will not be able to make a state with us, neither today nor in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by referring to a subject which has always occupied the Republic over the last few months. There are large construction sites in the Ministry of the Interior that have to be handled. One of these major construction sites is, of course, the reform of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism initiated by Minister of the Interior Kickl. I would like to ask you to support the BAT director, who has expressly praised and said these efforts by Minister of the Interior Kickl: Yes, this is the right way, yes, we want to continue this path. I'm looking for you as Minister of the Interior: Support this way, and I'm looking for you as Minister of the Interior as well: Support the force on the road that keeps its head for the security of this republic every day! The debates in recent weeks alone have shown that from the time that Kickl was no longer the Minister of the Interior, the police bashing has gone away politically, and all of a sudden they become free-wild police. This is something that you can build on the free support at any time. We will certainly not allow our police as a wild game – neither as a media wild game nor as a political wild game – to be flung at the public! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7660	Next come Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7684	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Estimated ministers on the government bank! I can wish you all the best and, of course, also offer our cooperation. For you, of course, one thing is new here: this party-political hack that we have now experienced; for us, it is new that the ministers want to talk to us. This is new, and we are particularly pleased that you are going on a constructive path here, and hopefully you will also survive this constructive path over the next few months. This constructive path takes place only with legislative and executive powers, as the Minister of the Interior also said, so there must be an exchange with the opposition parties, with the free forces. Well, I want to tell you a story, Minister of the Interior: Two days ago I was in the Leutschacherhof near Seefeld. This is a farm, a training company, which, of course, is also a tourism company. Professions in tourism are also on this list of occupations. There are also apprentices there, and among these apprentices are apprentices who are in an asylum procedure, who may have the status that they were initially rejected, but who started an apprenticeship before 2018. Among them is the particularly rare case that an apprentice, Christian Wandl, trained for three years, was picked up by the police on the day of the European elections and was already sitting home in the plane the next day. The issue is as follows: He has learned here for three years, the entrepreneur has invested in the training, the employees have committed themselves so that this young man, who is integrative, also receives a good training, the German language learns well, and then he is picked up two months or six weeks before the graduation exam and sent home. This is not only unreasonable, it is a human insanity, and it is also what brings me to the point of what you can do now – that is, to get a deportation stop – and at the same time, what Parliament, what Members could do here: That would be to agree to our proposal, which has been in place since 2015 and which has a three-plus-two rule on the content. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That would be the right point, which we would then, as it were, bring into the legislative system and which you could then execute. What was the case? I think it can already be said that in the past, the ÖVP has been kneeling here before the FPÖ. You could also go along with my motion for a resolution today. There is also a need for the economy, a need for entrepreneurs. If I only get my district of Pongau: There are more than 400 open teaching places and only 23 teaching places for seekers – and then on the other hand there are many young people who want to integrate in this country, who may want to build up a existence here, and on the one hand, they do not learn and on the other hand, those who are already in a teaching are pushed away. What the former Minister of the Interior has done is the cowardice: He has brought in those of whom he knew, where they live, and where they work. That wasn't a good move at all, but it was pure populism. I would like to quote a man who unfortunately is not here today: A populist barrier is a strong sign of sustainability and reason, your campaigning partyobmann has said. [[towards ÖVP]] If you want to use the ban on populism, you have to get up from your knees today in the sense of the economy and participate in our three-plus-two rule – otherwise it won't be anything – even in the sense of entrepreneurs who have invested a lot of money in it and who also want to put a sign against the shortage of skilled workers. The ÖVP could do this today. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] I think it's time: If we, the NEOS, talk from A to Z, about propriety to the future, we also speak of clear signs: from deportation stop to a regulated immigration law. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's the only way it can go! And it must be clear to all of us that this is not only feasible with our children, but also that we need a reasonable immigration policy. This is an objective that you would also have to pursue in the sense of the economy. Now I would like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your reason and your consent. The ÖVP has already become reasonable – in the case of the smoker regulation – and now it can quietly go along with this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[11:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7827	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7849	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! I am pleased to welcome the new Federal Government here today. I am also pleased that we have heard today a Minister of the Interior who feels committed to the rule of law. I am also pleased that the new Minister of the Interior is quoting from our federal constitution, because he is speaking here before us, the MP, the right of our democratic Republic goes from the people. We can still remember the words of former Minister of the Interior Kickl, who felt that the right to follow politics. However, this approach, ladies and gentlemen, is incompatible with the rule of law. I therefore hope that this new government, with the first Chancellor of Austria, will be a step towards the political debate in Austria. I am therefore also very pleased that the mood – you can see – has simply become more objective, even here in the House. [[Call:In which house]] - In the high house. In the last one and a half years, the Minister of the Interior has been a constant political discussion, not to mention political instability, unrest and excitement in Austria. This was in order not to raise a false appearance here, not to the dedicated staff in the ministry, but to FPÖ Minister of the Interior Kickl. [[Abg. Rosary: Well, I think that was rather the Lord Pilz and his list!]] That is why I can well understand if the ÖVP today believes that it made a mistake at the time during the government negotiations. Why she made a mistake, I would like to recall a few examples. We can all remember the search of the house, which has now been recognized as illegal, which has caused our constitutional protection to be paralysed for a short time and also to be cut off from security-related information. [[Abg. Rosary: Did Mr. Kickl’s house search cause? That's incredible!]] The budget of the Federal Ministry of the Interior he preferred to use for police horses and to promote right-wing media instead of ensuring security in Austria, for the safety of Austrians, and also for the necessary work of police officers. His main concern over the last one and a half years was the exclusion of critical media from reporting. It is therefore particularly refreshing for me, ladies and gentlemen, and, as I have to say, calming as a citizen, now to have an interior minister who feels committed to the rule of law and to our federal constitution. We have been able to convince security spokespersons yesterday when we joined in a dialogue; we have missed this in the last one and a half years. We would like to continue this dialogue with you, Minister of the Interior, so I would like to give you a few important issues today, in my opinion. Recently, the law concerning the Federal Service Agency was passed in the House. We can't change this law now – that's what the majority in Parliament decides – but from a rule-of-law point of view, this law poses some dangers that are absolutely and urgently to be taken into account when implementing it. There is a danger that an opaque system of legal and return advice will be created, which will avoid any control. I therefore call on you, Minister of the Interior, to involve civil society and science in the implementation of the next steps in order to ensure that implementation is fundamental. In our discussion yesterday, we also agreed on one thing, namely that the processing of asylum procedures must be done more quickly, while respecting fundamental rights and ensuring the quality of asylum procedures. We therefore feel that it is urgent to change the quality of the first instance asylum decisions so that the error rate, which is currently 42 percent, is corrected. It is also important to design the first instance procedures in such a way as to preserve quality. I would like to add a second point here: Recently, terrifying images of alleged police violence have reached us in the context of climate protection demonstration. These pictures show a violence that should not exist in Austria and which harms the good reputation of the Vienna police. These are disturbing scenes that require rapid, complete, transparent and independent investigation and demand the clear consequences, because only an immediate investigation and a complete investigation can restore confidence in the great work of the majority of police officers and also the good reputation of the Vienna police. I would like to wish you all the best in the exercise of your office, Mr Internal Minister, for further information and constructive cooperation, and I would like to thank you for taking Parliament, the people's representative, seriously as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7911	Now, Mr. Mag. Alexander Schallenberg. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e7932	Madam President. Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! I say it quite frankly, I am here in front of you today with great respect and awe: Respect for this House, awe of the task and full awareness of the specific nature of our situation. All of this is very unexpected for me personally, and I am going on the future task with humility and with a great sense of responsibility and duty. The Federal Chancellor has already sketched the self-understanding of this Federal Government, as I believe. We want to continue the state business carefully and conscientiously over the next few months. Our Republic is on very strong pillars, and we can really rely on excellent administration. Our task now is to lead this administration and to support it in some way. As the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs and for Art, Culture and the Media, I can take on an extremely demanding task here. Federal President Alexander Van der Bellen has rightly stressed, as I believe, the importance of representing Austria as the Federal Government in the European Union and in the world as a strong, self-confident country in the heart of Europe, and, ladies and gentlemen, I will fulfil this task to the best of my knowledge and conscience. Austria is and remains a reliable partner in the world and in Europe. The world doesn't just stand. The world will not wait until after the elections in Austria. We must therefore clearly agree, especially in European policy and in foreign policy, that we want to demonstrate our presence and continuity. This will be – and I would like to do so, in particular, on 25 May. The anniversary of the referendum on accession to the EU is particularly important – the representation within the European Union in Brussels, because after the elections to the European Parliament, we are faced with very important changes – strategic, content and personnel – the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned this – and what role Austria will play in this reorientation. Together with colleagues in the Federal Government, especially with the Federal Chancellor, I will work to ensure that we represent our interests as best as possible within the European Union and that our voice continues to be heard. Austria will continue to be a reliable partner and make an active contribution to the ongoing European Union's activities, such as the ongoing negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework, the still open issue of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union, the so-called Brexit, or the pre-accession of the South-East European States to the European Union. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, especially in foreign policy, we can rely on a very broad consensus, on a cross-party consensus. This consensus includes, for example, active commitment to a rule-based international system, i.e., to effective multilateralism with the UN in the centre. In this context, please allow me to underline the importance of the seat in Vienna for the international standing of Austria. However, this consensus also includes our commitment to a stable neighbourhood, not only in the south-east of Europe, but also in the Eastern Partnership. But consensus also includes our commitment to issues such as disarmament, human rights, the fight against the spread of weapons of mass destruction. And of course we will continue our strategic partnerships with China, Russia and the United States at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the diplomatic service, the representation network in Brussels, in Europe and all over the world, as well as the dedicated staff of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will ensure that we continue to represent our interests efficiently and find our voice internationally heard. Honourable Members to the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The government will continue its work in the area of integration. I support myself and count above all on the continuation of good cooperation between the federal, state, local and civil society, because we all know: Integration in Austria can only succeed if all parties cooperate constructively and actively. Within the framework of the art and cultural policy entrusted to me, it will be a special personal concern for me to have an open ear for everyone. I would like to use the many outstanding art and cultural events in the coming months to talk to as many representatives as possible of art and culture and to establish an open dialogue. In fact, I would like to keep it in the field of media policy. The next few months will certainly not be months of major reforms, of fundamental changes, but there may be months of dialogue, of open exchange; that is, in principle, my approach to this temporary office entrusted to me, which is my approach. I would like to follow this in all areas: seeking to exchange, entering into dialogue and working together for this country. We depend more than any other government on the support of the House, on your support, ladies and gentlemen, and, in the sense of continuity and the reliability of our country in the world and in Europe, I sincerely ask you for this support. For my part, I will do everything I can to seek direct exchange with you as quickly as possible and soon as possible. with the clubs, with the interlocutors in Parliament, but also with the representatives of religious communities, of art and culture and civil society – always with regard to what Austria now needs most: Consideration of the potential, trust, reliability and stability in this situation. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I am very much looking forward to working with you and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8008	I call Mr Reinhold Lopatkage. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8033	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the new transitional government! According to the words of the new Chancellor of the Federal Republic, the Deputy Chancellor, but also of the Foreign Minister, one can be quite calmed because she realizes that this transitional government will make the work professional, good, trusting and, as you mentioned earlier, make it reliable. Nevertheless, to say that I find it better, we would have a federal government here and today, which is composed of a democratic election and has not been formed on the basis of a decision of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Too bad it came so far, ladies and gentlemen, that should not have been the case! [[Abg. Haider: We had that! You didn't want that anymore!]] Yes, Mr Haider, all the speakers of your group have today avoided taking the name of a man who is today his 50. It's a birthday celebration. He was the trigger. It was Heinz-Christian Strache. [[Abg. Singer: That's not true!]] - Yeah, you don't want to hear that. That was inexcusable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steger: He has resigned!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] There you can only say: “Enough is enough”! State orders for Russian oligarchs, a home party that wants to sell cheaply the home country – we don't do that! Zack, zack, go with journalists who are unloving – we don't! [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is your narrative! That's not true!]] Sebastian Kurz, Federal Chancellor Kurz had to say at this time: “Enough enough is enough”, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Then you have taken a second step - - – No! [[Abg. Rosary: That would have been forgotten with the Minister of the Interior, gell?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, yes, yes, yes!]] They then took a second step, hand-in-hand, Rendi-Wagner – she's not here now – with Kickl; I don't see him either, even he's not here. We have the speech to the new Federal Government - - - apologise, in black; I have not seen you before. [[Members of the SPÖ draw the speaker's attention to the fact that Abg. Rendi-Wagner is in front of the first bank series.]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner shakes the head.]] What I want to say with it: The people in the country have no understanding of this second step, this false decision: Sebastian Kurz had to leave. [[Abg. Hauser: An ÖVP government alone!]] That's what you connected. [[Abg. Lighten: Where is the Lord Kurz?]] And if you say there's no such connection: Well, please, the 29th. September, this is the next thing you've decided together when I've been properly informed. The Federal Chancellor referred to it earlier, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany said: Both would have preferred to choose earlier for many reasons, which also the Austrians share. - No, your pact is scheduled to take place on 29 October. We're going to vote on September. Many of us are wondering: What's the next project you're planning together? [[Abg. Rosary: After nonsmokers! This is next, or how does it look?]] [[Abg. Hauser: For 14 days a crisis!]] I'll tell you one thing: With your decision to distrust a democratically legitimate German Chancellor, you have weakened Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] We are now discussing European and foreign policy. Anyone who knows only a little bit at the European level knows it makes a huge difference whether a democratically legitimate German chancellor is sitting there or a transitional chancellor. But the election result was too much for you, plus 7.5 percent, that was the SPÖ too much and that was the FPÖ too much. The two losers found themselves on the election night, and a day later Sebastian had to be away. That's what it was. Your joint program – much more you haven't found so far, just the election date. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: He's in charge!]] There is no distrust at all from my side about the transitional government, highly qualified personalities are at the forefront here. [[Abg. Lighten: Where is Mr. Kurz today?]] But I say it again to you: At European level, very important decisions are already being made in the coming days, and only in the coming weeks and months, and you have greatly weakened the Austrian position here together, I must tell you, although the new foreign and European Minister Alexander Schallenberg knows Brussels internally and externally; and also Brussels knows Alexander Schallenberg. [[Abg. Lightenness: Is it easy in Brussels, Mr. Kurz, or where is it abroad?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] I know what I'm talking about, I was allowed to work with him when I was State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at European level, but also before when I was in the Ministry of Finance. He is one of those Austrian diplomats who award this country far more than their duty, if necessary, on seven days a week, and that at any time of day and night. That is how our European partners know him, and this is good in this situation, because, as has been said, this government is one that is being weakened in these negotiations. It is about the EU budget! This is beyond the next legislative period, even if we are going to vote in autumn. Austria's interests to be best represented. This is more difficult for the transitional government. [[Abg. Rosary: We have already heard of the economy! This certainly has a good impact on the EU budget!]] – Mr. Volksanwalt Rosenkranz! Yes, he knows well, but it's about how much someone is legitimated. [[Abg. Rosary: We authorize him to 100 percent! I don't know with you!]] We had been greatly strengthened on Sunday and had been strengthened in these negotiations, precisely because of this result. There is no second pro-European party, ladies and gentlemen, which could act as the Austrian People's Party with Sebastian Kurz at the forefront. That hurt you so much, so you had to leave briefly, that was your program! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Where is he now?]] [[Abg. Hauser: A successful Minister of the Interior was in your way!]] But I'll tell you one thing: You don't do well if you put party interests so shamelessly before state interests. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's what beats the bottom of the barrel!]] The only thing that's good: ==References== September – I think you have determined it – the Austrians are making the decision who in the future democratically legitimised has the first responsibility in this country, and I am sure that the Austrians will make a good decision for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8376	Mrs Angela Lueger is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8401	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! I must first of all say thank you very much, thank you all, that you have actually agreed overnight to take over these functions for the state of Austria, a rather warm thanks also for your contributions, which you have today signed with the terms of reliability, responsibility and objectivity. What was the starting point? – A Federal Chancellor has dissolved with the words “genug is enough” and a Federal Chancellor has dissolved. He believed that with 30 percent he would make a single government and be able to serve all those members of the government who did not fit in with it. He did not respect Parliament in his term of office, there was no dialogue, he was often not in Parliament because of his European obligations. But what really disturbed me: If he was there, I always felt he wasn't interested, he was playing with the phone, that was what my colleague mentioned. And I really have to say now that I feel taken seriously by you as a Member of Parliament for the first time today. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not up to us to allow a division of society, that large corporations make demands in return for their large donations, which will then be required by the government, and capital interests will be pursued. These were signs that we as social democrats did not like and have been fomented, so our chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner decided to allocate an expert government, and I must honestly tell you that was the right decision. It was really the right decision. [[Abg. tiny: “To be divided ”?]] – Not to be “individed”, excused, that was now the wrong term: decided to inthrone an expert government. I hope that's what's right now. [[Abg. Lopatka: But this is not very democratic either!]] – If the call is now coming, it was not very democratic, I must tell you, Mr Lopatka, that was decided by a majority here! That was decided by a majority here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: “Inthrone” was not democratic!]] We now have an expert government looking for consensus with Parliament to expect reliability and objectivity. And we, as Social Democrats, do not want to put our hands on the floor until the election date, we want to move things forward until autumn. The fact that it was not just empty words that we heard from you today shows me a meeting that we had already met with you, Minister of the Interior. It was a very positive signal to me that you were looking for contact with us and that the exchange was really an objective, professional and correct one. – Thank you very much. Foreign Minister, Austria needs an active foreign policy to ensure peace, security and a just economic order, including the fight against the climate crisis. The fact that you are committed to this is a call we make for you. Austrian foreign policy was always strong only if it was borne by a broad foreign policy consensus, and I insist that this Federal Government, and in particular you, Foreign Minister, will continue to seek this broad consensus. We as Social Democrats will continue to pursue our objectives. We have the goal of regaining people's confidence in politics. I would just like to mention three points: the subject of working time. We should not live to work, we want working hours with which family life is also possible. For example, the police: So many hours of overtime have to be done that many families fail. We want appropriate framework conditions, we want the kindergartens to be expanded, and we want a government based on the fact that the social partners are a partner and not someone who can simply be ignored. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Wöginger, you said earlier that you want an increase in the minimum pension, which is still on the table. But then you'll say honestly: Who will achieve this increase in the minimum pension? – You require 40 years of contributions, of which I must have worked as a woman for 35 years, and five years are counted for child rearing times. No one will achieve that. This is a beautiful writing of what will not happen. We want a health system, which is solidarically funded, with the same high-quality services. We will continue to promote non-smokers protection, and the water must, of course, remain protected. The issue of living is not only about us in Austria, but also about politics at European level. It can and must not be that young families fail to get 50 percent of their family income for living. It just has to change. As social democrats and social democrats, with our chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner at the head, we want a policy based on the facts, discourse and majority in Parliament in the future – in the sense of social and social cohesion and a living democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8494	Now Mr Magistrate is. Roman Haiderzu word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8518	Madam President. Mrs. Bundeskanzler! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Mag, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Schallenberg! From the point of view of the foreign policy, the time of the coalition government – the time before the ÖVP broke out of purely powerless new elections – was quite a good time for Austria and its citizens, for a very simple reason: This government has focused on the well-being of its citizens – the Austrian citizens. One should think that this is quite natural for a federal government, but if one sees the red and black predecessor government from a foreign policy point of view, then one gets a completely different look. In particular, the field of foreign policy clearly shows how much the red and black tandem has neglected the interests of the Austrians and how the red and black tandem has often acted against the interests of the Austrians. There has actually been no independent Austrian foreign policy at all at this time, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under Red and Black was not much different at that time than the extended arm of Brussels. Every order from Brussels was carried out very well, and whether these orders were in the interest of the Austrians, the Federal Government was not at all interested. [[Between-call of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Abg. Drozda: That's a speech...!]] The foreign policy motto then under red-black was obvious: Austria last! But that's what happened at 17. In December 2017, a fundamental change was made, since this Brussels case had ended. From the time a foreign minister nominated by the FPÖ has assigned her office, this has changed, it has stopped, and it has shown very quickly that a new wind is blowing at the minor square. It has also proved very quickly that the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is no longer just EU commanders. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Drozda and Mr Scherak.]] As a foreign spokesman for the FPÖ, I am very proud of a decision, namely the decision not to join the UN migration pact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As with hardly any other foreign policy decision, it has shown that it no longer means: Austria last!, but that's what it says: Austria first! when the Freedoms are part of the Federal Government. The preparations for this pact began in 2016 quite quietly and secretly. From the very beginning, this UN-Migration Pact should be decided so much behind the public’s back, behind the back of the citizens, excluding the public – of course, one could almost mean. I would like to quote what this pact is meant for, namely, the “improvement of availability [...] of ways of regular migration”. This would have been very bad for the Austrians after the migration disaster in 2015, and that is why freedom transparency was very important for us so that the Austrians also know what this German government is doing. The second important goal was not to join the Migration Pact. This was not so easy, because when the migration pact was negotiated, the Foreign Ministry under Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz was involved in the negotiations. This pact has still negotiated Sebastian Kurz's cabinet, which is why it is all the greater that freedom of government has succeeded in not joining the Migration Pact. This is a very, very clear success of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have, of course, launched a discussion across Europe and have shown what we stand for. It's important for us: Those who are allowed to come to Austria will be determined by the Austrians, we will decide for ourselves and this will not be decided by the UN, nor will the EU Commission decide – this will be decided here in Austria alone. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't go!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't go!]] That is why I am very proud that we have prevented Austria's accession to the Migration Pact. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the Migration Pact has also shown that even in difficult, controversial questions a consensus could be found in such a coalition. That's why it's also really bad – to the address of the ÖVP – that this coalition has been deliberately and without need, smashed by Sebastian Just after an unscrupulous chess, action, fooling around the Ministry of the Interior – one could say briefly: the ÖVP in the power of power. That was the end of this successful coalition government. Too bad, but that's what the ÖVP has to answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But this is the past, we are turning to the future! For the first time in the Second Republic, Austria now has a transitional government, an official government – a new situation, a new challenge for all of us. I am well aware of the fact that this government will not take on essential innovations and initiatives, but as a foreign-political speaker of my party, I have three main wishes for the new Foreign Minister. Schallenberg. The first wish: maximum transparency. Great foreign policy projects, such as such a migration pact, must not be negotiated behind the people's backs. I would also like to see transparency in the negotiation phase, and not just after that. The second wish: Take the well-being of Austria and its citizens as the top guide for your actions and not the requirements of the UN General Assembly or the EU Commission! They are responsible to the Austrians. And the third wish: Don't forget the Austrians abroad! They are all ambassadors of our country around the world and are still treated a little stepmotherly – even by us again and again. Therefore, be sure to hold your office after the foreign exchange: Austria first!, off, then not much can go wrong at all. I wish you every good thing for your work in the sense of Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8619	Next: Mr. Dr. Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8641	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Unfortunately, you have to experience in part that some parties turn to the past and discuss for hours who was not to blame again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Haider has just explained to us the greatest success of the FPÖ government participation, namely that the Foreign Minister, who was sitting on a FPÖ ticket in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and who was not responsible for European agendas, was not the Brussels commander. Congratulations, Mr Haider, this is the biggest event and the biggest success of the FPÖ: A non-competent minister is not a commander! I congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Lopatka has rightly mentioned that there are important decisions to be taken at European level in the coming months: on the one hand, the initial negotiations on the budget, on the multiannual financial framework, and on the other, two very relevant staff decisions from the Austrian point of view. Firstly, the question of whom we are nominated as EU Commissioner as the Republic of Austria. I know that this is perhaps something new now, because this is not being practiced in Austria, but now, I believe, we have a unique opportunity, also because of the expert government, that we look more at expertise and less at the party book that someone has in hand. We all know that so far there has been a party that has always placed the Commissioner at European level. Even though different personalities have gained the same expertise, I believe that it would be very good if, as Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker suggests, we look at this from the dark chambers and make this decision-making as public as possible and as transparent as possible. As the Federal Government, you have to reach agreement with the main committee, and I believe we would do well if we made a hearing there if we were to invite as transparent as possible public people to apply, and if, regardless of what party-political background someone comes from, we could agree that we would find someone who might not have a party-political background. This is something that would be very useful. Whatever would be good is if we sent a woman to Brussels to cooperate there. A second point, which will also be very relevant in the coming weeks and months, is the question of the President of the Commission, the President of the Commission. Of course, it is a little subjective when I say that I wish a President of the Commission, because I believe that we from the Liberal Party family have a very strong candidate; but even if not, I believe that if we manage to have the first German chancellor in Austria, it would also be a good sign if we managed to have the first President of the Commission at European level. If it goes to me, it should of course be Margrethe Vestager; if another one finds himself, it is also right for me. A woman would be a great sign.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8695	Next: Mr. Dr. Peter Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8719	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. Only three brief comments on the new Federal Government: First of all, a small correction to Mr Lopatka, who said that, unlike the previous government, this government was not democratically legitimate No! [[Abg. Lopatka: From a choice!]] The government of Altkanzler Kurz was a democratically legitimate government up to the overwhelming majority of Parliament's distrust vote, from that point on, the government was no longer democratically legitimate. The current Federal Government is not a transitional government, but a completely normal, democratically legitimate government, nothing else! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, there is a decisive difference between the Bierlein government and the government in short – I looked at the individual positions –: This is the first federal government I personally experience in this House, in which every single position is better in terms of quality compared to the previous government. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] That's a great thing! That's very pleasing. This was certainly not the purpose of the vote of distrust, but it is a very nice objective result. Thirdly, a very personal remark: I was first praised in the Austrian National Council in December 1986 and until a very short time I only experienced governments with ÖVP participation – only governments with the ÖVP! – and I suddenly sense a feeling of a new freedom. That's such a nice feeling of life. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] A government without ÖVP, that's a liberation. Imagine, an ÖVPler usually calls in a ministry to order a post, and no one stops! That's something special. Something has changed, and we should benefit from this change. Austria should get used to it, without ÖVP it's not just going, but it's even better! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now to what I'm talking about. I'll give you a picture, which is a picture of Murtaja Qureiris, who has done something. [[placing a child's portrait in front of the speaker's desk]] As a ten-year-old in Saudi Arabia, he called in a megaphone on a street to work for human rights. At the age of 13, he was arrested. The Saudi regime has waited until he becomes 18 to be able to execute him for what he has done as a ten-year-old. It's so inconceivable! We are sitting here in a house where something like this is first inconceivable and where, secondly, many of us are proud that students are going on the street to work together for the future of our planet and of all of us. There was one who was ten years old on the street to say something of course: I'm for human rights. – A ten-year-old child to be killed eight years later by state child murderers! That is the point on which I put forward a motion for a resolution, and I call on you to agree to this as a very clear signal, including for the salvation of this young person. Remember, we discussed: Should we lock the King Abdullah Centre at once – there would have been many reasons – or should we wait? Some of you, especially from the ÖVP, but not only from the ÖVP, have said: We wait one last time, we signal: Change your politics! – But the signal did not seem to have arrived. My motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] A National Council holding something on its own, holding something on to human rights, which, in particular, wants to protect children from such a cruel persecution all over the world, should accept this proposal. I believe that this is an important common sign that we should not only send to Saudi Arabia as unanimously as possible today. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[12:16]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8891	This motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Now, Mr. Dkfm. Eduard Müller. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8915	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! A budget is always the balance of the decisions of the past and the expectations of the future. To find and maintain the balance at all levels will be the challenge for me, for us over the next few weeks and months, the balance between solving current problems and preparing a proper transfer to the next federal government, the balance between managing functioning processes and creating necessary fields of action, and, of course, I would not be finance ministers, the balance, the balance of revenue and expenditure. I am here in front of you as a Federal Minister, but I am actually a substitute for the qualification and motivation of the Austrian administration as a whole. I can still bring in my expertise in this function, my experience as a long-term auditor of a financial office, as a specialist in the Ministry of Finance, at international level, but also as an administrative manager or as managing director of a medium-sized company. The particular situation of this Austrian Federal Government requires a special responsibility of its members and, as already explained by the Federal Chancellor, also a special understanding of office – an understanding of office that I share – namely humility in front of the office and reliability in the office. As a representative of the executive, I feel committed to the common good. What does that mean? – In other words, within the framework of existing laws, to manage and design with the existing resources as best as possible, with a major aim of handing over an orderly, stable execution to a new democratically legitimated federal government. In the interests of this common good, I see the following priorities for the next weeks and months in my capacity as Minister of Finance, but also in my capacity as Minister of State for Public Service and Sport: First: Ensuring proper budgetary implementation and preparing the transfer of a corresponding budget to the next Federal Government. Secondly, Ensuring tax and customs revenue through a functioning financial management. Thirdly, the representation of Austrian interests in the international and, above all, in the European framework. Fourthly, continuity in carrying out the areas of public service and sport. And fifthly, this has already fallen several times: the guarantee of the rule of law – I would like to add – also through the support of the necessary legislation that we may need here and there in the next weeks. Appreciate High House! Of course, at this time I am also in an unpleasant position, namely that of the Budgetary Guard. I had to ask for some understanding in advance of my esteemed colleagues in the Federal Government, but a budget is now also – not only – the art of distributing disappointments evenly. To you, cherished High House, I can only appeal: Today's constituencies are the tax increases of tomorrow. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS as well as the Abg. Bißmann.]] As Minister of Finance, I would therefore like to offer you and therefore also the Austrians that our House is very quick to carry out an impact analysis so that we can help you to have the best possible basis of decision transparently, comprehensiblely available. The political assessment and, of course, the political decision are your responsibility. We as executive can only support you with appropriate basics. But I also see myself in my office as an administrative manager, generally for the entire public service, in particular for the financial administration, from which I also come. I can also draw on my experience in the management of the Austrian tax and customs administration with more than 9 000 colleagues, but also in the management of a private company. As an administrative manager, I will try to carry out the ongoing tasks carefully and of course also efficiently, while at the same time continuing to push on with reforms and innovations that have been started, for example in the field of digitalisation. Ladies and gentlemen! Even though the public debate in recent weeks has been very focused on our domestic policy situation: The world – Mr Schallenberg has already mentioned this – continues to move in and around Austria. As a strong European, I therefore believe that, in my case, together with the other Member States' finance ministers, I should like to address the current challenges – the threatening deficit procedure of Italy, the EU's multi-annual financial framework – that you know. The interests of Austria and the interests of Europe must be best represented. I hope that I will be able to prove this at my first ecofin on Friday. Finally, I have a little bit more to do with the role of the sportsman, of course, in the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Sport – I probably now come a little less to sports than before – but also because I have already noticed two things in the first days: It takes speed in the political environment, for example, to support you, the High House, as best as possible in your actions, and at the same time it also takes endurance, endurance, especially in order to ensure stability – once again: especially in budgetary terms. Allow me, therefore, to refer to Cicero, like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who once said: The best source of income in a state is its economy. Appreciate High House! I promise you that I will take care of the responsibility that has been transferred to me and in a very close dialogue with you. I would ask you to support your dialogue, because only together can it be possible to maintain the confidence of the Austrians in the political capacity and thus in the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e8998	Now Mrs. Dr.in Angelika Winzig has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9022	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I wish the new transitional government all the best and thank you for leading the government in the next few months. The support of our group is, of course, safe for you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But honestly: My ÖVP colleagues and I have not wished for new elections or this new transitional government. We wanted to continue to work on the government programme negotiated with our coalition partner, because we have noticed how positive our reform course is for citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I would also like to join you, Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs, with my budget counterpart Erwin Angerer, but also with financial spokesperson Hermann Brückl, as well as with the budget and financial team of FPÖ, thank you very much for the cooperation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Our coalition government had a clear goal of making Austria the country of opportunity for all citizens – opportunities instead of debt, tax relief instead of new burdens – and we were also very good on the road. With the debt ratio, the trend turned toward 70 percent. We have successfully worked with all the ministers to achieve a budget surplus, we have reduced taxes on income up to EUR 1 948, we have set up the family bonus for our families, which was very positive, we have started the reforms that the population so yearning for – I only call the structural reform of social security funds – and we still had a very, very, very much in mind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, however, with our coalition partner, the so-called individual cases increased, and the video of Strache and Gudenus has clearly made the barrel overflow. It is not in line with our values to propose a Russian takeover of the “Kronen Zeitung” and to acquire illegal party funding from Russia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Moving public contracts to Russian construction companies also does not correspond to our value system. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... Benko!]] However, this does not correspond to the election promises of Mr. Strache and Mr. Vilimsky, for in the EU election campaign a letter was sent to the seniors, who said: We protect Austria from selling abroad. For us, it was clear that the entire leadership of the time – and this includes the then Secretary-General – resigned. That is why the re-election was Mr Kickl's decision and certainly not that of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: This is not the person at all, but...!]] The citizens have not understood this at all, because they have greatly appreciated our common policy on matters. But they also do not understand this Rendi-Kickl-Pakt, this mistrust proposal, which has been filed against the entire Federal Government and against our Federal Chancellor. This not only harms our reputation abroad, it also harms our economic location. Austria has a 60 percent export rate. This is certainly not good for our labour market in the future. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Even though voting times are times of collective irration, I appeal to your voice of reason. I wasn't there at the time, but I'm sure we all remember this night from 23 to 24. September 2008. Please sprinkling You're not the budget as it was then! We are on a good way to make together a budget that is future-looking. They are not allowed to hang a bag of burden by so-called sugar applications here in the House of Youth. That would be irrational policy. I would also like to thank you, Minister of Finance, for having already done so. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say goodbye to you today, my way towards the EU Parliament. However, I would also like to thank my voters for my 84 931 vote in favour of the EU election; I assure them that I will be very, very careful to deal with this confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last, but not least, I can thank my ÖVP colleagues, especially our staff in the club for the last two years. I wish you a lot of courage, a lot of willingness to reform your political work and, of course, the cohesion and friendship we maintain in our club. I can only say: You're just the best, and I'm gonna miss you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9124	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosekzu has now been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9155	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! This is indeed a very exceptional situation today, because, as a women's spokesman for social democracy, I am of course pleased that we can welcome the first German chancellor here and that 50 percent of government members are women. I look forward to the next months with you! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] A very short replica on Mrs. Little: At that time, decisions were taken, almost all taken by the EIA, only three not, about ten reforms that cost around 1.4 billion euros and bring a lot of people. Only the first part of the tax reform you wanted to implement would bring the company 1.6 billion. I would just like to mention this imbalance again. [[Abg. Hauser: That's not true again!]] [[Call the FPÖ:... maybe for you!]] At the time, you have carried out a lot of social policy achievements, which still have a positive impact today; that is only to be said to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Sieber and Mr Minzig.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, these almost four months ahead of us will be carried by materiality, I am convinced that the recognised personalities who make up the members of this Federal Government will work together with us on a very trustworthy and good basis. Today, we have already received a small taste of wadl bites between the former government parties; I do not think it is appropriate to continue this in the next few months. The free play of forces will result in some cooperation between parties that may never have worked together, perhaps between parties that have worked together more often. I can only remember: In the past, 35 percent of all government projects have been decided unanimously, i.e. all parties together. Why should this not succeed, such as when it comes to not selling our water? We don't want that! The water is important, and the population wants to use the water free of charge and to make full use of it in the future. - That's one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next is the non-smoking internal protection package, which also includes parents not to smoke on playgrounds. This too will be a sample here and, as I believe, a majority will receive. Of course, we are also dealing with compatibility issues, ladies and gentlemen. The possibility of being at home four weeks after the birth of a child who had been in the public service for a long time, without payment, which has now been introduced as a family-time bonus, should be introduced for all with a right to pay. Here too, I see that we could form thematic coalitions that not only bring the economy forward, because the dads come back richer, namely, richer around the findings from living together with the infant. Perhaps some may be tempted to go to Father’s care later. It is also about volunteer helpers being paid five days when they sacrifice their time using all their powers. Yes, it will be a competition of good ideas and humanity, that has been said by the Federal Chancellor today. This very humanity has fallen a little in recent times, it has been in the last 17 months. Allow me to pick up here and also to say two or three things that have been borne by social division and not by social unity. We have not taken everyone and everyone in this country, no, the previous Federal Government has deliberately set accents and actions that have not all included, although I am deeply convinced that 99.9 percent of Austrians, the people who live here, are well prepared and do what they can do. But they have divided the people into groups: the one who is a lesser one, and the other who do more. It can not only arrive at the wallet, it can not only mean that they are served with the fat account and those with the narrow wallet have a look. I am talking, above all, of women living alone with their children, who are seriously disadvantaged by social assistance Newly, which may be severely disadvantaged by the family bonus, because to be fed down at 250 euros a year, unlike those who earn a little more and get 1,500 euros per child, that is also an imbalance that we could fix in these new constellations, which would then help all people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want to live for young people who are quiet, we want good schools for our children. We don't want what you did: You have halved the amounts of money for all day care – that was done under your previous government with a certain sum – and now you are selling it to us as if it were the superinnovation. So please get together, Mr Wöginger, because I'm looking at you, and stick to the truth! Sale Don't give us things where you've halved the amounts immediately before, as great innovation! [[Abg. Wöginger: Negotiating with the countries and communities, Mrs Colleague!]] We also want offensives for climate protection; and we have heard of the young people who move in the new media completely, quite automatically like the fish in the water. Digitalisation from a small point of view, dealing with climate crisis – these are the topics we want to deal with, not only in the next four months, but especially in the future and for the future of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9252	Next speaker: Mr Ddr. Hubert Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9273	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Minister of the Interior! Estimated Federal Government! Many fiscal measures of the government programme were successfully implemented by this black and blue government in the first 17 months. I should like to mention the three main tax measures at the outset: The first measure was the reduction of the rate of VAT from 13 to 10 percent on accommodation revenues. The second measure was the introduction of the Family Bonus Plus from 1 January 2019, and the third measure was the reduction of the unemployment insurance contribution for the low-earners. And how about this tax reform, with our net offensive? – We can still bring in this tax reform, Mr Klubobmann Wöginger – he is not sitting in his place now – as an initiative proposal from ÖVP and FPÖ. I have significantly negotiated this tax reform. I still stand by this outcome of the negotiations, and I would very much like to see this tax reform, at least the first part for 2020, in which we can already implement legislation in the BMF, together with the EIA. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would just like to highlight a few highlights from the Council of Ministers' lecture on 1. May 2019. What would have happened in 2020? Or better said: What could happen if we had the support of the ÖVP in 2020? – We could massively relieve workers, pensioners, self-employed and farmers with low incomes with the social security bonus of EUR 900 million per year. On average, the workers concerned paid 280 euros less of social security contributions per year. Small businessmen – up to an annual turnover of 35 000 euros – would have benefited from a generous operating-cost reduction in income tax and also from an increase in the small business limit on turnover tax. 350 000 entrepreneurs would have saved up to 400 000 tax returns, so no tax advisor would have needed any more. We have a win-win situation: Entrepreneurs save money, and the administration of course saves themselves the appropriate effort. And last but not least, we could have increased the amount limit for the immediate depreciation of low-value goods from 400 to 800 euros – planned: in 2021 to 1,000 euros – and we could still do so. In 2021, the first stage of the tax and income tax relief would have been to reduce the tax rate from 25 to 20 percent. In addition, for workers, we would have the advertising fee of 132 euro. to EUR 300 per year. In this way, we would have ensured that 60 000 workers would no longer have to make employees' incomes in the future. In 2021, a central part of this tax reform would have entered into force, namely the re-codification of the Income Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 2020, for which we have done massive preparatory work. This would, of course, also lead to a massive simplification of wage accounting, which is constantly required by companies, but also, of course, by consultative professions. In 2022, the income tax rate would have been the second stage. We would have reduced the second progression level from 35 percent to 30% and the third progression level from 42 to 40 percent, a very important component. Employees could have participated in the profit of the company tax-free and social insurance, including employees of individual companies and of individual companies, not only of capital companies, as is the case at present. Last but not least, we would have reduced corporate tax, but also for small businesses we would have done something: We would have extended the basic exemption to EUR 100 000 for individual entrepreneurs and the individual companies. Baghtell taxes, such as those on sparkling wine, would have been abolished. The sparkling wine tax, we all know, hurts the domestic economy massively and costs more than it brings. That means that we actually have to abolish the sparkling wine tax immediately. The creation of a uniform basis of assessment in the case of additional wage costs, the single-service tax keyword, would also have led to a further massive simplification in wage calculation. Our tax reform, our net offensive, as we put it on 1st. In May, an honest tax relief would have been for all employees, pensioners, but also for entrepreneurs, not one who takes the right hand and returns with the left hand, as was the case with the last tax reform 2015/2016. It would have been an honest tax reform; honestly, because without new taxes, without new debts. In the final expansion stage, this net offensive would have meant a discharge of 8.5 billion euros per year for the Austrians, namely 8.5 billion euros each year. We would love to implement this tax reform with the ÖVP, with which we have worked very well in the tax field in particular. I can also thank you, Angelika tiny, and wish you all the best for Brussels. However, we liberals will do everything in any case, so that at least the steps planned for 2020 can be implemented accordingly. In the Ministry of Finance, we're done with the law. The Ministry of Social Security still needs a review in the area of social security, and I would be very pleased if Mrs. Federal Minister Zarfl could support us accordingly. I would like to thank Mr Müller not only for the very good cooperation during my work as Secretary of State, but also for not taking any action that had been decided before his term of office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thanks also to the President, the Federal Minister for the Interior; also with him the cooperation was very, very good. Thank you. I am looking forward – on this occasion – to the future good cooperation, and I can wish the transitional government all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9361	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9386	Madam President. Dear members of the new Federal Government! We have now heard from honourable Member Dr. Fuchs a Hättiwari: What would the government have done if it had not shown us the real face of the FPÖ on video! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What would you have done? – They would have taken money from dark channels to move orders to places where they would not have belonged. [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] You would have taken money from dark channels to push this money over club constructions into your own cash registers. [[Abg. Singer: What about you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] So it would have happened if it hadn't been recorded on video. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But let us come to the new Federal Government: It is not only about A to Z, from the beginning to the future, it also lives in the A as at the beginning a Z like magic. I have already heard from Mrs Bundeskanzler's wish, after an early election, that she knows a little bit that it would be no fun in the long run to rule this way, without a majority in Parliament. I would like to look at the functions of Mr Finanzminister, who is also Minister for Official Affairs. I think the meeting of these two functions is a coincidence. So far, we have always had the problem of having their staff in retirement and, if it was annoying, sending them in early retirement – in early retirement, more precisely. The Ministry of Civil Service has done the service and has been allowed to pay for all of this then the Minister of Finance. Now there are at least two functions together, namely the right to serve on the one hand and the payment on the other. I would like to draw your attention to businesses that have still employed officials, to the public authorities, to the post office, to the post office, to the postal bus and to various other companies, in which it has been increasingly common for a number of years, that such employees should be retired against their will and transferred to the Minister of Finance who is then allowed to pay, and to bring in cheap new contractors. That would not have to be so, and I think you are able, on the administrative side, to face it a little bit. They are likely to conduct the salary negotiations with the representatives of the trade union of public servants in autumn. In the past, what I have always said to the State Secretary Steßl and Duzdar and also to Vice-Chancellor Strache, I would also like to suggest to you: Please go to the negotiations with counterclaims! Of course, the union wants something, and it is also its job to demand something for the employees, but there are also legitimate interests of the employer, in the case of the Republic of Austria, to say yes, but we also have a concern. Please prepare these counterclaims, because you have a great responsibility, of course also a great budgetary responsibility. You know, my concern is always the pensions. In total, a quarter of the budget goes to public service pensions and social security pensions. Fortunately, we are getting older and older, and the proportion of over 65-year-olds in the population will double. This means a great financial burden. In the last 14 months, however, we have been talking about minimum security, which is EUR 0.92 billion, and not the pensions that make up the euro 21 billion a year. It was a case of failure to do so. You have, unfortunately, inherited, but you can't change the laws now, of course. You said that today's gifts are the tax increases of tomorrow. On the ÖVP side, it was actually promised that only what was already under review would be done. Now one reads in the newspapers that there should also come things that have not yet been reviewed – because one still wants to serve constituency clients, for example the pensioners and other groups of persons. You open the battle of election gifts, and you have heard colleague Heinisch-Hosek, who has spoken of 1.6 billion euros, which are suddenly left, which could also be powdered. So you arouse desires by opening the battlefield here. There is something quite simple, Mr Minister, what you could do in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs. In fact, there is the Pensions Commission, which should meet for more than two years and has not yet come together, which is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9532	The motion for a resolution is properly put in place and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Bruno Rossmann. Please, Mr. Club President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9560	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! This morning I was appalled by the statements of Klubobmann Wöginger on the free play of the forces: "Casino Parliamentaryism"! When it comes to taking measures that are useful in the context of the free play of forces, he believes that it is about concealing taxpayers' money. But when it comes to implementing measures from the government programme of a government in which the ÖVP was involved, of course, this is not an election gift, then of course that is all right. [[Abg. Little: Because it's budgeted!]] I think, Mr Klubobmann, that is unbearable. [[Abg. Little: This is budgeted, Mr Rossmann!]] However, I also find the calls that come from NEOS to the free play of the forces, which form a so-called pact of responsibility in which they exclude tax sugars, billions of heavy tax sugars without counter-financing. And what did the NEOS do? – The NEOS took place at the special meeting on 27 May. In May, a proposal for an initiative to abolish cold progression, a milliard tax gift without counter-funding, of course. Do you know what this pact is, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS? – This is a pact of responsibility. Scrape You'll have this pact as soon as possible! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] We want to use the free play of forces primarily for measures that do not burden the budget or put it very low. This concerns, for example, a so-called democratic package, a term of party financing, a law on freedom of information, but also the right of ministers as a minority, which will still be voted here today in this House. A measure that causes budgetary costs, of course, we also have inside, which is the so-called maintenance guarantee. There is the promise of five 2017 party leaders to decide on this measure in order to avoid child poverty in that country. However, the proposals we are making also include measures on climate change and environmental protection, for example the so-called plastic sacckerel ban. A joint request from ÖVP and FPÖ will be submitted today, but this is a ban on plastic sacks, which is an attachment to the Waste Management Act. We don't want to. We want a ban on plastic sacks, which deserves this name, and we will therefore put forward a motion for a resolution to call on the government to finalise this ban on plastic sacks, so that we can achieve a proper, successful solution and not a half-hearted solution. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If I say climate protection, then I also mean that we must not now have a government that only understands itself as one that manages and does not design. We have so far had a standstill in the field of climate protection despite climate crisis, and it is not a matter of acting on this important issue in the next six, seven, eight months – how long this interim phase may take – we are not acting. Climate change, the climate crisis must not be managed, as action needs to be taken urgently. There you, Federal Minister of Finance, are called upon by the introduction of an eco-social tax reform which is neutral to what is taxed, for example by CO2 taxes, one over one in private households and businesses. This measure, in addition to the abolition of climate-damaging subsidies, which the Economic Research Institute has meant, is one of the strongest weapons in the fight against the climate crisis. Another area, however, is the weaker economy. If the balance is important to you, then it must be important to you to counter climate change, otherwise penal payments in the order of EUR 6.6 billion are threatening; and in the weaker economy and rising unemployment, you will experience very quickly how the negative will affect the income situation and the increase in expenditure. There would be a serious need to think about it – and here too you are called on to decide on the reduction of low incomes as an anti-conjunction measure. That's where you're called for. We need government design. Climate protection and the fight against the climate crisis do not allow any delay. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on the release of Murtaja Queris and the closure of the Abdullah Centre.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9630	Mr President, I would ask you to wait until I have the request so that I can see if it is really being properly put in. [[An employee of the Parliamentary Directorate shall hand over a copy of the application to President Bures.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to read the request now.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9652	You're welcome. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason has already been given by Mr Peter Pilz. Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[12:59]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9833	Both of the motions for resolutions have now been properly put into effect and are now under negotiation and are therefore put to the vote. The next item is Mrs Martha Bißmann's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9854	Madam President. Estimated members of the democratically legitimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, citizens! Mrs Bundeskanzler, Minister of Foreign Affairs, I congratulate you very much on the Angelobung. Thank you for taking on this responsibility! I would also like to congratulate the Republic of Austria, because with you, Mrs Chancellor, a gap that opened up 239 years ago with the death of Quasikaiser Maria Theresia: Since then we no longer had a woman at the top of Austria. Do you know what word I think about Brigitte Bierlein? – The youth word 2018 in Germany and Austria: Honorary wife. That means a woman who makes something extraordinary for another. And yes, Mrs. Federal Chancellor, you are truly doing an extraordinary special service to the sociable republic. Well possible that inspired and encouraged by the example Brigitte Bierleins and her half female government now takes a generation of young women courage to go into politics as well. I myself focus on female models in politics: a Jacinda Ardern, for example, New Zealand Prime Minister, a Maneka Gandhi, India's minister of women, these women give me anchor and orientation in my current role. And on my way to politics, the former presidential candidate and current colleague Irmgard Griss was decisive for me to go to politics myself, as she has more than impressed me in the 2016 election campaign by her integrity and independence. As non-party and non-attached Members in the High House, the appointment of the highest guardian of the Constitution also touches me particularly in the sense of independence, because the free mandate I have here daily in my work is firmly anchored in the federal constitution: Article 56 of the Constitution provides that the members of the National Council are not bound by any mandate in the exercise of their duties to decide on their own merits. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear commitment to the free mandate, a fundamental principle of representative democracy – in theory, because in practice the force of the club applies. In the past, Members have repeatedly been excluded or placed in no more electable lists if they voted against the party line. They were punished for their courage and their backbone. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: Is such a sanctioning of the exercise of Article 56 of our federal constitution fit into a modern democracy of the 21st century. - Century? – This is truly a high house, and all those who work in it deserve to be able to speak and vote freely and independently. Dear clubmen, party presidents! Be courageous and free your mandates from the fear of being excluded if they express themselves – rarely, but still – against the force of the club! There are already pioneers of the free mandate here in the House: the JETZT and NEOS list. The JETZT list sees the group voting and standing up on a regular basis, but in most cases the political groups are voting in close agreement. That is exactly what will happen, ladies and gentlemen, if you remove the force of clubs. 99 per cent, I say to you in advance, the political groups will stand up closed because they are familiar with each other, the fellow Members, and because they do not always have the expertise and the time to deal with every legislative matter. Believe me, it will lead to more loyalty and no less! It's a long time – the spirit of time knocks on the gates of the High House and sounds loud: Free yourselves from the force of clubs, big parties ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ – you even have freedom in your name! [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] I am of the opinion that now is the perfect time to strengthen the free mandate, in the play of free forces in Parliament, without invading structures, hacking structures of opposition counter government, government fractions of counter-opposition groups, without coalition agreement and without a government of executives requiring the vote of Parliament, the legislative, as it has to vote. In addition, I assume that you, Mrs Brigitte Bierlein, the esteemed Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, as the former high-ranking guardian of the Constitution, may be a very special concern for you that we are working in accordance with the Constitution here in the House. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e9884	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No one has made any mention of this. This debate is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on a number of motions for resolutions. [[Abg. Bißmann goes to the government bank and gives his hands to the members of the government.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, if you take a seat, I can begin with the vote on the motions for resolutions. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is only the adoption!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bösch, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Hammer, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Retaining the security school in Wiener Neustadt’. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – That was the clear majority. That is why this motion for a resolution has been adopted. (E 76) We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Promoting teaching for asylum seekers'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Pilz's original motion for a resolution was withdrawn. We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on ‘The immediate establishment of the Pensions Commission and the creation of the Long-Term Review’’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – [[Abg. Wöginger: Gerald, that's where we made a request!]] That is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Rossmann, colleagues on ‘a ban on the placing on the market of plastic carrier bags’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Peter Pilz, ing. Hofer, Mag. Drozda, colleagues on ‘the release of Murtaja Queris and the closure of the Abdullah Centre’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 77) (Fig. Jarolim – towards ÖVP –: How you can be against it, that's really by the way!) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the proposal 850/A of August Wöginger, Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Herbert Kickl, Mag. [[13:08:54]] Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the XXVI. The legislative period of the National Council ended prematurely (630 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10003	This means we can reach the 2nd place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Alfred Noll was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10030	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Valuable members of the Federal Government on the government bank! That's nice: Once you are opposed, you will be the first speaker to be the representative of the smallest opposition party. If the various delegates have finished their flash mobs, you might also be able to talk here in the house. [[towards those Members who stay in the back part of the meeting room]] You all know Sebastian's got a little bit of a file recently: ‘Red-blue has determined. The people will decide.” I'll tell you: This is an active contribution to the lubrication of More constitutional language. Now you don't necessarily have to be a follower of Jürgen Habermas, who in these days is 90. Birthday celebrates to express here the postulate of constitutional patriotism, but it has not determined red-blue, but the National Council has failed to trust the former government's resolution. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] Whoever at the beginning of the election campaign tries to make the mood of vocabulary with such populist and demagogic, next to the vocabulary of the Constitution, only strongly gives me the impression that this mistrust against him has already been personally justified. Moreover, those who, according to a sentence of Hans Kelsen in Article 1, are the starting point of the law, face the National Council as an antipode, who recognizes the meaning and purpose of parliamentary democracy, who actually operates a vocabulary-like upgrade that has nothing or little to do with what is in our constitution. [[Congratulations to Members of JETZT and SPÖ.]] I also believe that it is time to end this absurd talk of a transitional government or an expert government or a government of trust. We have a federal government that is democratically legitimate for nothing less or more than all the other federal governments of the Second Republic. The members of this Federal Government were also praised by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Many, many ministers of former governments were not elected as Members of the National Council before. This too is actually ideological fog formation, and it may contribute – and perhaps the meaning of this whole thing – to forming a kind of mental reservation for the members of this Federal Government according to the motto: Well, we're just a transition anyway, we're just alternates anyway. - That's political calculation. Fortunately, in view of the staffing of our current Federal Government, I am not concerned that their members do not take office as what their duties are in accordance with the Constitution. Clemens Jabloner, our new vice chancellor, has unfortunately already left the hall. In one point I would like to correct him: In fact, this federal government has the confidence of the National Council. It is not true that, as long as this confidence was not expressed, there is distrust, but it is, following the Austrian constitutional concept, exactly the other way round. In our constitutional law, we have the formulation that the National Council of the Federal Government or individual members can fail to trust. Until it fails, it exists. There can be no doubt about that at all. The present situation is, empirically speaking, certainly extraordinary, simply because we have never had it before and there are no routines for it. But it is – and I believe that I have rightly said this to all those involved from the Federal President to the new Chancellor – neither a state crisis nor a constitutional crisis. It is a great opportunity, and this opportunity should be used by the National Council – in two, three points it has already begun. I believe that it would be an opportunity for this House, the Members of this House, to finally show that they are not wild puppets on the strips of the individual party headquarters, but that they are actually Members who work for this country in the sense of the Constitution. To speak again at Jürgen Habermas: If we simply continue what has been so far, then we do not have a patriotism of the constitution, but we continue a paternalism of the parties. I think it's good for the house to change that. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] A last word about Sebastian Kurz's poster, which I mentioned in the introduction: Not only that he looks out on this poster like the young Enver Hoxha, who looks far, but what is formulated as an election propagandaist saying, namely: [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] “Our way has only begun,” that is really bad phrase clause. Exactly with this wording, President Janukowytsch paved his country a thousand times in Ukraine in 2011, and we know who Mr Janukowytsch is. He's someone who's been told that he's taken $40 billion from his country. We know of a high treason process and we know of an international arrest warrant that has once been issued. I do not think it is right for such a man to borrow such electoral propaganda formulas in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10121	I call Mr Gerstl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10142	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Just a short word to my previous speaker: It is really irresponsible what is happening here: that an Austrian Chancellor is compared to a high traitor, as he called it. I don't think that's what you need to say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If a former vice chancellor says to his supposed Russian interlocutor when she brings the FPÖ to “Place 1”, then “we can talk about everything,” ladies and gentlemen, then there is only one thing; then you can only pull the line, and then the only answer you can give is: New elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstner.]] The voters have to decide, because we are not a state that can be corrupted. No, no, no, no, no! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sebastian In short, we cannot go into the agenda, even if the reform project we had with the FPÖ was a very good reform project for Austria and for the Austrians. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been discussed very often in these days that the Austrian Federal Constitution would be a very good instrument of action for such cases. I say: There is something to explore in the Austrian federal constitution. The Austrian Federal Constitution builds on the fact that the acting actors work together to find new solutions in a common consensus. This, ladies and gentlemen, has led German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and Federal President Van der Bellen to agree very quickly that, in order to prevent further damage from the Republic, only one possibility is possible: rapid new elections. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has recently commissioned the formation of a transitional government – I mention this because it was probably forgotten by many already – a transitional government in which Sebastian Kurz, after the freedom ministers had resigned, took in experts who had been recognized across all party borders. Until then, the instrument of the Austrian Federal Constitution has worked to prevent further damage from the Republic in the consensus of the acting actors. But then came the Rendi Kickl Pact, then this Rendi Kickl Pact of the Austrian transitional/expert government failed to trust in Parliament. [[Call the SPÖ: It's such a fool!]] Then there was the first political crisis in this country, as it has never been, namely that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany had to use a transitional government that had to take place without political experience until the next election, a transitional government consisting of officials who, as the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and today also said to Mrs. Bierlein, are there to manage the existing one, or, as Dr. Peshorn said: The administration is also a ‘figure within the framework of the existing ‘laws’. But ladies and gentlemen, what do the Austrians expect from a government? – You expect more from a government than just the administration of existing laws. They expect a government to draw up plans for the future, which will take initiatives that make policy-making and which is really on the look of the future. Migration, climate change, digitalisation are topics that quickly require a federal government that can rely on a majority in Parliament. Mr. Federal Minister other than Dienst Hofer, you said in the previous debate that there was no deal between Rendi and Kickl, no deal with the SPÖ. If that is the case, Minister of State other than Service Hofer, then you will vote against Mr Wittmann's request to vote on 29. ==References== I would ask for a separate vote so that you all have the opportunity to vote in favour of early elections, as the majority of the population would like to have, as we have already stated in our joint motion, at the beginning of September or mid-September. Or you decide to apply for SPÖ, the elections only on 29 July. September. You will be given the opportunity here for a separate vote, which I call for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it's not for you, I only think of one thing: A slug who thinks you're on the 29th. In September, perhaps only because four days earlier, a plenary session has already been set in this House, in which you may wish to re-establish commitments for the Austrian population at billions that the grandchildren, sons and daughters of our Republic still have to pay for a long time. [[Abg. Sherak: And that's what the ÖVP is doing!]] That's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10213	I call Mr Wittmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10245	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am a little surprised at how things were twisted in the previous speech. Let us take note of the facts: First of all, the party chairman of the ÖVP has left the government with the SPÖ without any reason and without any reason. It was not clear why, except that he had taken better chances. [[Call the ÖVP: This is your story!]] He only had to get rid of his own partyobmann in a human way that was quite questionable. As has been done, you have to agree with your own conscience, not ours. This process – how to deal with their own people – was unique in the Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Then you dissolved the second government and concluded a very controversial pact with the FPÖ, and you knew what you were going to do. You knew it was coming. You have known that these right remarks will come. You know, this is system-immanent in the FPÖ. [[Call the FPÖ: Shit!]] Then, suddenly, the survey values increased, and then one wanted to get rid of an uncomfortable partner, because he is not completely lumpy in Europe and for the reputation. In order to be able to return to the society of the others, one has tried to leave the government. The occasion is undisputed – that does not even challenge the FPÖ that this was an improper thing that was claimed there – only and alone is responsible for this new election but ex-Bundeskanzler Kurz. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] He wanted the new election on his own! He wanted this new election. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now, on your concept of democracy and on his concept of democracy: The only institution elected in this game between government and Parliament is Parliament and not the government. The ex-Bundeskanzler is also elected to this Parliament. This is his only democratic legitimacy, because he was elected here. He hates this Parliament so much! He made us realize that by never coming. He never came in 17 months! [[Abg. Wives: I'm such a fool!]] He didn't want to be here, he just didn't want to talk to us. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] He who has the mandate to sit here does not sit here. He does not use the only democratic legitimacy. For him, only his claim for power and his own perceptiveness are the decisive. You will still have to shiver in this superiority – believe me – because pride comes before the case. I've heard that before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This superiority is not to accept the voter's will and not to sit here – but I would really like power! Just because I'm running power games on the back of this republic, I'm gonna blow a government the second time. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well!]] And only he's to blame! [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] Don't try to display it differently with any posters. By the way, it is also a very strange game with democracy that Parliament is being played against the people. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] In every representative democracy it is so that Parliament represents the people and no one else. [[Abg. Wöginger: But you are already elected by the people!]] - Yes, he is also elected. Where is he? – He does not accept the electorate. He's superlative enough to stay home! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But this is still his thing! You don't have to tell him!]] He's superlative enough not to do that. He's to blame for this dilemma. He only caused these new elections. He has tried with a handshake to use a 100% ÖVP government. [[Abg. Whoo, whoa, whoa, whoa!]] If that is the case, then Parliament will say: No, it's not that far away that we're going to tolerate a hundred percent EIA government because they don't have a hundred percent of voters, but because there's another majority here!, then you have to accept it. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] You also have to accept the election date, because this Parliament is confident enough not to take the ÖVP date, but another date, and that determines the majority in this House. Let's write this to the main book: Obsessiveness until the shift comes before the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10490	Mr Stefan came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10512	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, you know, that's where the waves go up. I also allow myself to take a short position on my previous speaker. I worked extremely well with Mr Gerstl in this coalition and was very glad that we were able to implement a lot of things together. But apparently today he felt like telling the history of the ÖVP. Each union needs its own history, and now there is the story of how this government has fallen. With confidence, Mr Gerstl, you know, I think you are just as good as I am: It was not the video itself that brought down this coalition. The reaction to this video was that there was an agreement between the short and the FPÖ that the government will continue to replace Hofer, replace Strache and Gudenus. That was the agreement, and that is why, in short, in view of this video, which I am going to talk about, there was no problem with continuing this coalition. That is a fact, and even if this is often presented differently today, that was agreed. Then the additional demand came: No, Kickl mustn't stay inside ministers, and the Ministry of the Interior mustn't be in FPÖ hands at all. That came after that. [[Call the FPÖ: So it is!]] There was this agreement before, which is why Strache simply resigned and also said in his statement on Saturday at 12 noon: In order not to endanger this government, I step back and withdraw! – This is not a small step for a vice chancellor and party observer, even in view of all other things. So it was. Then Kickl was asked to resign, Kickl didn't do it, and Kickl was called. [[Abg. Kassinger: Get out of here!]] That was a unique situation in this Republic. This was the one-time step which then led to the fact that there was distrust of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. That was the step, and you must not wipe it away and forget it. It's not about washing dirt or anything else now, but you really have to call things by name. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm completely missing one point: It's quoted here from the video – including Mr. Gerstl quoted, I don't know if he knows the video – everyone's quoting something. The fact is, it's known for 7 minutes. I don't know if Mr Gerstl has seen more. Me and none of us have been able to see more than the 7-minute 7-hour section. In my opinion, the real scandal is that no one here points to how this video came about, under what circumstances it was published and what it really means. This is, in fact, a democratic scandal. A clear trap has obviously been prepared for at least half a year, and then a secret recording of sound and images has been made. This is the worst interference in the privacy there is. [[Abg. Scherak: You always agree!]] We know the big noise attack, there's a report every year about the big noise attack. If the police take pictures and recordings secretly with judicial permission, they need a judicial order to do so; this is reported next year, and it is seen whether these measures have gone too far. In this case it was made secret, it was secretly involved in privacy in the worst, in the worst way, the whole thing was still being prepared. Then it was left for two years to light it a week before a choice. We had great discussions here that it is an essential problem that the elections in Europe might be manipulated by fake news from Russia. It was a big topic to be careful. After what was that? – It was probably the manipulation bad to wait two years to light it up to manipulate a choice! And it has definitely been changed. So that was the taboo break that happened here. This doesn't make people talk here, but you just have fun of it, and you know just too well that you've brought down a little bit of it. – Yes, wonderful, all the means are right! I don't think about what it really means, what has been done here! This is a point that I feel is a real scandal, that one goes to the agenda here, that journalists call it Investigative Journalism, if they don't even research how the video came about and what is really contained in the 7 hours of material, which may have been torn from the context, which in fact has been created by a question, in which perhaps the second half set is missing and so on. In fact, this is the scandal, and that no human being is pointing it out here, I really find it disappointing, that I didn't expect. I understand that there are enough people sitting here who may be happy about it and who like it, that this government is flying into the air, but not that you don't go beyond it and say that it's a taboo break that could happen in a similar way at any time when it's being purchased that you're getting into the privacy, making pictures and recordings, producing something from it, and then putting them on hold when it fits. This is an incredible state, because we must fear it, because it really calls democracy into question and because it would have an explosive force for the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to the actual request: It is about when the election date is set. Of course, we can discuss this. I don't think that's a big question, if that's an shoulder closure. In this case, blue and red will vote together, there are enough other issues away from the former government work on which we vote with the EIA or with other political groups. We have come to the conclusion that it makes no sense to run the election campaign in summer, because, in fact, during school holidays, people are usually not in their home places or with their thoughts elsewhere. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That is why we felt it would be useful for the election campaign to begin in the beginning of September and the election to take place at the end of September. This is, in fact, the next possible date without setting it to a week. I really don't understand that this is a big thing. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If you really want a short election campaign, everyone can handle it that way. As much as I know, the ÖVP has already begun – you can slow it down again and start it again at the beginning of September if that was really the problem. At least we'll handle it that way.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10601	Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10622	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! I think everyone will probably remember exactly the moment and the place he was when he first saw the Ibiza video. Mr President, I am quite right in giving you, and I do not want it to happen now that the band is trying to lure politicians into traps with secret cameras, and I would be very interested in who commissioned the video and how it went. But there's a big but: The rulers that can be seen on it are still responsible for what they have said, because not every politician or politician would give such things of itself. Thank God! I guess that's quite clear. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This video has not only been distributed in Austria within seconds, but worldwide. We see here two politicians who are quite open – one can say low, but open, one can also say boffen, but still open – talking about that they are ready for corruption. This is not a bubble layer, it is not to legitimise how it has come about. In this video, the vice chancellor of the Republic of Austria says more or less clearly that he is ready for corruption. [[Abg. Stefan: Have you seen it?]] - Yes, I saw it! [[Abg. Schimanek: The whole video?]] He's ready for corruption: Make a company, and then we'll do it with the contracts! - That's what everyone has seen, and that's the problem. [[Abg. Stefan: Two years ago it was! What happened?]] Do you know what this is a shame, not only in Austria, but also abroad? One asks: What kind of picture is politics giving up? People ask: I'm sorry, what's going on with you? That's your vice chancellor who's in the video like that? – You have to answer that, and You can't steal from the responsibility by saying: Well, that was a bubble layer! That's what you have to answer! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, this is also the responsibility of the ÖVP. I didn't know that something like this was coming up, either, I have to say, I don't think anyone can think. But there are, for example, relations with Russia and the question of whether we are good enough with our laws in Austria, so that we avoid funding through dark channels from Russia. [[Abg. Stefan: Deripaska!]] That's the question I asked here the day before the video came up. That is the question I asked to the then Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, and you put it down. [[Abg. Jarolim: How in a script!]] The ÖVP has known about the relations between the FPÖ and Russia, the question of financing through dark channels, and, honestly, other well-known cases of corruption that have always occurred in the past. She has seen eye in this disaster and has taken on the purchase that this damage to the reputation of Austria is happening. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] I said immediately at the time, from my point of view, new elections are inevitable. I already understand colleagues Noll and his argumentation, but from my point of view, new elections are inevitable, because I also insist that the Austrians now, in the next few months, take a picture of who really draws the lessons from this video. This is the most important thing for me now. I also said that on the day the video was released at Ballhausplatz: The people in Austria must trust that in terms of the funding of parties, everything is revealed that is completely disclosed, who finances the parties, where there are funds everywhere, where millions lie, in which associations, advance organisations, Bünden et cetera, with which election advertising is made everywhere. People must be able to rely on this, and people must be able to rely on people to act in the power solely in the interests of the people and not in the interest of their own party, not in the interest of their own posts and not in the interest of possible lenders. [[Call the FPÖ:Haselsteiner!]] Now there is the huge chance to say that is a acidity in the Republic of Austria, in the Second Republic. Now is really the time of a test, who seriously means to create rules once and for all, which create transparency and enable control. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are not elected here to pursue permanent party interests, but to represent the interests of the people. In such a situation, we are very much committed to working together, to say that we are subject to the control of the Court of Auditors, we are subject to transparency, and we are also prepared to introduce a criminal record of illegal party financing – because it looks quite different when the prosecutor comes into court and controls the books. This is the test to be carried out over the next few months until the re-election, so that the Austrians can imagine who is really willing to go this new path of political culture. From A to Z as well as from the future, we will be negotiating in the coming months the question of the direction in which Austria should move, and it is no secret that we have a completely different idea in terms of open society, diversity, but also the rule of law, democracy and control possibilities than the previous turquoise-blue federal government. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10740	Mr Strasser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10762	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, a word to the FPÖ: Unfortunately, I have to relativize the history of the Ibiza video that Mr Stefan has brought to us for our cooperation, which is also a pity for the government programme. I still agree, if you say it's not okay – it's also not right – to put someone a trap; that's where I limit myself. But I am particularly concerned about the content of this video, and these contents are simply not apologizing. However, I do not want to talk about the content, but I would like to point out how H.-C. The subject has been dealt with. On Friday evening you have strongly supported this, from your party the first now-right calls, relativizations and so on have come. I understand from a party's point of view that I have not understood the content. The statement of H.-C. I thought it was authentic on Saturday, I took it from him, he apologized, he resigned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] But one week later, he made a video in which he said that we politicians and politicians had always had such thoughts. That's where the barrel overflowed for me, and I'm really with our Federal President Alexander. Van der Bellen and say: “That’s not how we are”! It is necessary to say: What has happened in this video is not going to happen and should never happen again! – I would have had that from H.-C. Just wanted it. I would also like him not to go to Brussels to go to the EU Parliament, because a party that stands for cleanliness for decades – the FPÖ stands for cleanliness in politics – should exclude such players from the field, and it should be a matter of course that H.-C. The mandate will not be accepted in Brussels. On the matter with Kickl – and this is also a point of discussion, I think Karl Nehammer will do it then – I say that the offer was the following: If we take an independent Minister of the Interior, we clarify these things that stand in the room, and then we continue this coalition! This analysis corresponds to the truth. In this distrust, there has been an unholy, unholy coalition of the FPÖ with the SPÖ, with which a stable government has been elected against the will of two thirds of the population. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] But we could have organized a lot of good things in the next few months. This is what we are going to do now with this so-called transitional government, and I hope that there will be no distribution of electoral sugars here. We will do everything we can to be a strong voice in Europe, because it is the appointment of the European Commission, it is the financial negotiations and it is a lot at stake for us farmers in the programming of the common agricultural policy. However, there are also turbulent times to be expected in this Parliament, and I can take out the agricultural sector again: I am bleeding my heart when I hear that the FPÖ farmers in their own group are not really heard and the subject of plant protection is being stepped with feet. This hurts me, because I call for measures in the field of animal welfare, in the field of plant protection in relation to the discussion of organically versus conventionally with and not against us farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to invite you and point out that we are not part of the problem. We are part of the solution, and we want to do our best for this country every day. Please give us the opportunity to do so. - Thank you, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10825	Mrs Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10846	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear High House! Dear Seers! Not only the last weeks, also the last months and last year have marked us very politically and shown us what is going on – for example, that democracy policy has become highly worrying processes Usus: insufficient answers to questions, through-peeling of legal templates et cetera. Now, however, it is important to finally look forward to conveying hope and confidence to people instead of mistrust and frustration, hope and confidence in a creative High House, hope and confidence in a parliamentary democracy, elected and representative of and for the people of Austria, and hope and confidence in Austrian politics. It is precisely the young generation that should not get a negative picture of politics and bodies such as the High House, the Austrian Parliament. And as President Van der Bellen said, “That’s not how we are”! It is about a positive common future, one in which people are in the foreground and we have answers to the questions of everyday life and the future for people. It's about quiet living space, because especially for young people, the first step in this personal independence is extremely cost-intensive: by building a house, by moving out of home. It's extremely expensive, temporary rental contracts are a big problem, the pressure on the housing market is pointed out the situation – damn it! - Pretty well, honestly. We need more manageable living space, we need tools such as an idle charge to guarantee the people a roof above the head and make it affordable and safe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is also about child protection. The health of society must be the mirror for politics in order to identify the places in which we need action. Non-smokers protection is a very big example of this, because it also includes the protection of children and young people. It must finally be implemented and must no longer be a negotiating object in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The abolition of smoking in the gastronomy would be a first step that young people in Austria use less often to reach the cigarette, because it is sometimes just about how it is used to one. 20 percent of Austrian young people continue to resort to the cigarette on a daily basis, more than in all other European countries. And the Tobago Control Scale states that Austria is in the final place as regards the implementation of effective tobacco control strategies such as information campaigns, weaning offers and smoking bans. These are balance sheets with which we absolutely cannot be satisfied, so as SPÖ, we are again taking the initiative for a smoke-free society and staying on it. The working world also presents young people with countless new challenges. More and more studies confirm: It's about working to live, not living to work. Work-life balance, training opportunities and exemptions, as well as the rejection of all-in contracts, are important and are simply always more important. A modern working world must not be made up of underpaid and unpaid internships and precarious service relations, which must finally be part of the past, for full-time work must be fully rewarded. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, I think you can say: Parliament's committees are still numerous requests for discussion, which have always been postponed during the last sittings. These applications contain many constructive solutions to the concerns of the population. It is now time to take this up and work together on implementation, and on currently burning topics – constantly rising rents, the urgency of climate change, health, work are just a few examples – also courageous, groundbreaking steps to take. As a social democracy, we naturally want to work together with our clubwoman Dr.in Rendi-Wagner to give answers to these questions of the future, answers for and with the people in Austria, in order to make life really worth life for everyone and, above all, to strengthen the confidence of the population in politics and in the Austrian Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10918	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e10939	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can now say goodbye to you in the evening sun of this short legislative period and continue the way in the European Parliament. This new election has now gone ahead some of the first times in Parliament, and it would be typical Austrian, but it would be a little irrational, if one would not take this opportunity to talk in principle about which determined processes and patterns often prevent us from getting really good things on the way and simplifying people's lives in Austrian politics. If you talk about error analysis in Austrian politics, you hear relatively often cynical, the suffering pressure is not yet large enough. But is that really the case? – With many things, we know well enough that fresh paint has often been painted in Parliament over the broken body and has been satisfied with it. One often has the impression that what works well in Austria, despite politics, works great, and not because of the good political decisions. If people are asked, what politics can do for them – entrepreneurs, teachers, parents, scientists – then quite a lot of people say it would be really nice if politics didn't put stones in one's way. Unfortunately, we are very often not in the business of preparing the way, but in the business of putting stones in the way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is really very painful for Austrian politics, because in my opinion it could already be changed, especially by finally starting to make politics here in Parliament, by also maintaining a lively parliamentaryism. If no one can hide behind his party or behind his club and no government can hide behind the real constitution, then we can move good things. The Austrian National Council, and these have now been my experiences in recent years, has already been influenced by sham parliamentaryism rather than anything else. I think we should talk about how we could change this in principle; I would think it was a good thing. Let us give Parliament more resources so that it can really make policy! Just the reactions in recent weeks, that you're almost afraid of the free play of the forces, show that we all somehow know that no one is so properly prepared for it. If you want an emancipated Parliament, the individual Members need more resources to be able to work well. If you want an emancipated Parliament, you need a stronger legislative service so that you don't have to have your own ministry for every small thing. If we want an emancipated Parliament, we need, above all, the will of all parties to let their MEPs work, rather than above all to have control, because then everyone can be more than just abnickers. [[Abg. Vogl: That's how it looks with you?]] – I am not talking about my club, but I know that in this House it is often the case that you are just about to be afraid that your own Members can suddenly think independently. I think it would be a lot of great if many great Members in this House had more opportunities to make their own policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I have experienced in many committees, especially those in which I was a member – these were the Committee on Equal Treatment, the Committee on Science and the Committee on Research – that it has always been a real effort to decide on all-party applications for joint initiatives. I have been able to make a few requests myself. What I am really proud of is the request for a solution to the chain contract problem that we have decided on. Of course, it would have been even more illegal if we in this House had the resources to add such a proposal to it, rather than waiting for it and to make a request: Please, Mr. Minister, do this! It's the same with many other topics. I have not only experienced in these committees that it was often very humorous and that there was a nice relationship, but that one has really tried to understand the arguments of the other and the other. I think it would be good for Parliament if more committees and more speakers worked like those for equal treatment, for science and for research. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A great thank you, of course, is especially true of the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, who always work extraordinarily professionally. If there is a part of this House that is really willing to become a working party, then it is Parliament's Directorate. I would be really happy for you if you got the chance to develop your full potential. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, the greatest thanks goes to my parliamentary club, to the great staff, to my speakers, to my parliamentary staff, to my great colleagues who have always encouraged me to get better, and of which I was able to learn a lot from, and of course also to the best boss, who very often asked me, but above all encouraged me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11001	I call Mr Drozda. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11022	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to this Constitutional Committee meeting, which we had yesterday, and in turn to a sentence that is now on an election poster, which originally proclaimed different from the one on the electoral poster. The sentence stated: 'Parliament has decided. The people will decide!" This sentence is short by Old Chancellor, and I find this sentence scandalous. I am very glad that Karl Nehammer has been removed from the list of speakers to speak for me, because this gives you the good opportunity to explain this sentence as a parliamentarian and apologise for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now there is another sentence on the posters of Sebastian Kurz. He was the first to open the election campaign, which is in a certain diametric contrast to the statements made by Mr Gerstl and others in the Constitutional Committee, which say that one should make a very short election campaign. – Then, in fact, the question arises why he does not come to Parliament and the election campaign started in Salzburg on Monday this week – but be it around. It is only clear that what is claimed is completely wrong. It is therefore wrong because Sebastian Kurz has decided first of all that he has accused the Ministry of the Interior of the Interior – we have heard this several times – for the ÖVP, and therefore has ended Turquoise-Blue, for no other reason; because he has called for new elections himself; because, third, he has formed a Turkish minority government; and fourthly, he has never tried to seek a broad majority in Parliament, which is no further wonder in the light of what he sees Parliament now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] [[Call:Don't vote]] He thus bears full responsibility for the crisis of his government. The Constitutional Committee had two essential questions to discuss yesterday. One of these questions has been decided: the question of the election date, which, as it is now designed, will then be determined by the Federal Government in agreement with the main committee and from this point of view on the 29th. September will fall. The second thing is equally important, which is the question of the future financing of the electoral struggles. Karl, it is quite good that you speak after me, perhaps now comes the explanation for what the ÖVP has spent 13 million euros instead of 7 million according to the legal border, and especially where this money comes from. I ask this question in the context of an article in today’s edition of the “Falter”, which is particularly interesting. As regards the so-called grey cash registers of the Chamber of Commerce, it is revealed that: It seems that over the years millions of euros have been thrown into an old-school club, month after month 40,000 euros, and this is now presented as a pension scheme for business carers. - That's interesting. One always knew of three pillars, obviously there is a fourth pillar in the Chamber of Commerce. In fact, however, the presumption that one can naturally attach to it and which insists on that of party funding – the presumption of party funding – is because honestly: [[Abg. Haubner: What kind of a thing?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, you know, and the SPÖ...!]] What do these 500 000 euros serve for a year, if not a year? – Then the cash registers are opened, and we will see that we come to a transparent arrangement! – Mrs Colleague, you can come out and explain what actually happened to the money and what it is used for. [[Abg. Little: It's tested anyway! That's a joke!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Little: They're tested!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: (in the direction of Abg. Little) Get out and say something!]] We are relatively clear We have clearly expressed our position in the Constitutional Committee, we have said that there should be a ceiling of 10 000 euros for donations, a total of 200 000 euros have been requested, and Mr Klubobmann and her, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to comment on this proposal in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee and then in the Constitutional Committee. [[Abg. Little: Yes, exactly!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Lettenbichler and Mr tiny.]] If there is any further information on the origin and use of the missing 6 million euros and the 9 million euros that have flown from the Chamber of Commerce, I am very pleased. I am now putting myself back in my place and I am waiting for your explanations. [[towards Abg. Nehammer]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11164	In fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has made a statement. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11199	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Drozda has previously submitted to the Chamber of Commerce that he should be involved in the promotion of parties through an association structure. I reject it with all my determination and put it right: It is as stated in the public: In the Chamber of Commerce, a cost reduction programme has naturally been launched in 2002 as a result of a voluntary reduction of EUR 150 million in Members' contributions. In this context, employees have also been released to a greater extent, through a voluntary offer to these employees, to be able to leave and change into a social plan. These employees are paid through this association structure. Moreover, this was unanimously decided in the Bureau of the Economic Chamber – with the votes of the Social Democratic Association and the Free Trade Association – and keeps any review at all times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11237	Mr President, we should also talk about the form of actual corrections. [[Abg. Nehammer: Painful for the SPÖ!]] The next item is Mrs Kuntzl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11282	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The famous Ibiza video has already been widely honoured in many previous speeches. It was the end point or it was used as the end point to end the phase of the blue-black government. [[Call the FPÖ:Hätt’st likes!]] Some say it was used, it was already planned to put an end to it and go in new elections – be it. Today we have heard speeches from the government bank, which differed in a beneficial way both in tone and in content of much that we have been used to in the last 18 months. I have written important signal words used by the Federal Chancellor today. It's a long list, and I think it's important. She spoke of reliability and trust, of dialogue – dialogue! – it has referred to Parliament as the heart of Austrian democracy, which beats and beats, it has a responsibility to speak of respect to Parliament, of world openness, consensus, commitment, humanity and one another, and it has called for the common foreign and security policy. These are all important signals, important orientations, important attitudes that have taken us off the side of the government bank in the last few months. [[Call the ÖVP: You didn't listen to that!]] This phase is now being put to an end – the phase in which we were used to hearing from the government bank Getöse, hearing polemics, although it is actually an unwritten law in our house that the government bank does not want a polemic. We have seen from the Government Bank in this House that Parliament has been disdained, yes, even more, by demonstrations of misdemeanor. The supposedly so new style was a style of driving, the refusal of dialogue, the cold power games and the stagings. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under this phase, ladies and gentlemen, a final line will be reached at the latest today – at least a provisional end, because now the voters are on the floor, and we will see what the election outcome will bring about the vote of the voters and voters in autumn. With the Federal Government, which has presented itself today, a cooling phase, a phase that hopefully contributes to the improvement, but that does not have to be a phase of the standstill, on the contrary: As a self-confident Parliament, we can also bring things into the way that are important for the lives of the people as a whole. We have launched a number of initiatives that we can implement immediately, which cost nothing – because this is always stressed – but are important. Not least, the Ibiza video has led us to see how important the question of the privatisation of water supply is. We want to introduce a bar to the privatisation of water supply by means of a Constitutional Act. The issue of non-smoking gastronomy has been an important topic in our country for months. We will experience again on holiday that this is not a problem in other countries at all. We can do this in our country, too. Whatever the summer will bring is not only a vacation, but, as is to be feared, also weather, much work for the fire brigade, for the volunteers, for the aid organizations. It would be important for Parliament to take a decision to get under the arms of the volunteers who are doing such an important work and to pay for their work accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the new elections and after the new elections, a final line will be drawn under the Wer-Tahlt-Schafft-To-Politics policy – under a policy under which large donors wish to extend working time, tax gifts should be decided in the order of 1.5 billion euros. This is what we want to draw a conclusion, and it should once again open the way for a policy that improves the living situation of the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11338	Mrs Erasim has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11359	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The way for new elections is free with the present proposal – a re-election request that the least wanted to be made here in the room, but which was not to be prevented due to the events of the last few weeks. I have come to work in this legislative period within the meaning of the Austrian population, in the sense of people, especially as a representative of my region. Unfortunately, this work was not possible, initially due to the miscarriage and corruption of the FPÖ summit and then through omnipotential fantasies of a group chancellor, who seriously believed that one fifth of the voters were sufficient – yes, if one calculates the non-electorate, this is about one fifth of the votes – to tear the entire Republic under the nail within the meaning of his grand donors, without any dialogue, without a slight understanding of democracy and, above all, without the will to find a broad majority for his ideas. [[Call at the ÖVP: Then the SPÖ has 10 percent!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Being a politician means looking for dialogue and compromises, starting processes that are not always simple or pleasant, and taking themselves back very often. This is a guideline that means seeing himself as a servant of the people and not abusing the sovereign for his own purposes. In the turquoise alphabet, I seems to be the first and only letter, and as a Parliament we had to pull the lines. However, what hurt my democratic soul particularly was ignoring and even trying to break down the social partners, to deny compromises and the superiority with which this failed government has faced this Parliament, the elected representatives of the people. It is all the more gratifying to see that not everyone in Austria is in such a way that there are people in this country who are willing to take responsibility, and therefore the first item on the agenda with the statement of government and the presentation of ministers was so beneficial. We as SPÖ are ready to turn this difficult starting point into something that not only uses those who have paid in the campaign by means of donations. One of the most important issues in our society is the fight against poverty: How do you deal with people who have not been raised with the golden spoon? The failed government has not only given an answer to this important question, it has even made this problem worse. [[Call the ÖVP: tax reform! Family bonus!]] Also with the family bonus you have made the situation worse with the poorest. [[Abg. Wooger: Worse?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The abolition of minimum security, the drastic cuts in multiple-child families, these are all projects you don't need to be proud of. [[Call at ÖVP: German is difficult!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Don't be ridiculous at your farewell speech!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's not German! German lessons!]] And here I am already on the essential question: How do we deal with the future of our country? How do we guarantee young families a babysitting place? How can we restore the lack of funding for family advisory services? How can we quickly implement the legal anchoring of the billing of leave periods or the maintenance guarantee for single parents? [[Call the ÖVP:... make debt!]] Let us take advantage of the situation and finally eliminate the greatest dangers associated with child poverty! There are these requests, we bring them to the decision-making process! The families in this country do not need any stagings or expensive family celebrations at tax costs. Our families need legal certainty, financial security and measures to prevent poverty. [[Abg. Black: And the family bonus!]] Let us address the questions that affect people in their daily lives: Jobs of which one can still live, dwellings which one can still afford in a few years, a health system that guarantees all the same excellent care, an education system that provides the same opportunities for everyone, the guarantee of pensions, so that old age is possible in dignity – as well as an important topic – and a fair distribution of assets as well as the important social issue of climate protection! I am very pleased that Mrs. Bierlein's first wife managed to break through this glass ceiling. The population will get used to the fact that there is a woman German chancellor. I assure you, esteemed spectators: Our party president Pamela Rendi-Wagner is ready, so that people no longer need to get used to after the new elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11517	Mr Jarolim has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11539	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. On the comments by Mr Drozda: We are all very grateful for the fact that in today's "Falter" there is a story that shows how under the era, obviously, in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – and I do not believe, voluntarily; no one assumes that this is voluntary, there is pressure being exerted, as one must ask Mr. Kurz – funds have been flown from economic operators, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: Mr. Jarolim, you don't know yourself!]] I strongly recommend that you read the current “falter”, since it certainly falls to you like sheds from the eyes, and it will also be clear that the information that has been processed by Mr Klenk does not come from the SPÖ and from the Chamber of Workers, but from the centre of the Chamber of Commerce, ladies and gentlemen! There are obviously officials and members who feel overwhelmed by the fact that Mr Kurz is obviously being given money in some way that is being drawn out of the chambers in an adventurous way. The Presidents report on ‘a long-term problematic practice’: “Every month, the three presidents wrote to the Chamber of Commerce Vice-Boss, the Association ASEP – the Association of Austrian Senior Experts Pool – received “a certain amount”, the ‘in the same amount’ – that is 40,000 euros a month – “to a strange club”. The Asep leads this to this club, and where that goes from the club, you don't know that very well. However, it is certain that it should go from 2010 to 2023: 13 long years, ladies and gentlemen, 13 long years in which the members of the Chamber of Commerce may be angry with green and blue, that 40,000 euros a month go to a obviously black case – or wherever. “To whom did the forced contributions flow?” is the question here. - We don't know. “If, like a WKO member speculates, perhaps hidden party funding [...]?” – Ladies and gentlemen, if that is not something that undermines your credibility, then I don’t know what credibility means anymore. I can tell you this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am now getting more clear on this issue why the EIA has its problems in a special form with a new regulation of the party law – because of course it is: If more transparency comes, then there is no longer any possibility here – and I say it again: from WKO-functionaries – but here lies openly on the table, where in fact these 13 million euros came from the 6 or 7 million euros that were allowed in the last election campaign. But how is that? This has not been donated to anyone, because that is what is happening, but it is the money that has been labored out and the smallest members of the Chamber of Commerce, and for this, I think, anyone must be ashamed, and I also have a suspicion who, Mr Kurz, is. That is what I am saying to you very openly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Head: You should be ashamed! You should be really ashamed to claim such a thing in the protection of immunity!]] That is why I can also say to you: This decision, which we are taking today, is based on the fact that Mr Kurz has left behind a heap of rubble, consisting of egomania, arrogance and recklessness. Outside, the nice young man is played ahead and calculated inwardly, ladies and gentlemen! The shattering of social security funds has already been the subject of: It has been promised that all depositors will be treated more or less equally with respect to benefits. Now tell me why the officials really get so much more than the normal workers and employees! Explain to us why this is so and not even any action has been done to end it somehow! At the 60-hour week, on the 12-hour day, you have explained great to us that it should be possible for those colleagues who have a four-day week to actually get it. [[Abg. Go, go, go - - -!]] – Nothing happened, nothing happened! You took advantage of the people, and you've mirrored something that doesn't happen at all. [[Abg. Haubner: An unworthy speech!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And what's next – in the Vienna election campaign that will certainly be a big topic, I can already prophesy to you now – is the attempts of Mr. Kurz to look around from behind, to fight social housing almost by privatizing it there. Ladies and gentlemen! Vienna is an international example of what we need to do, that we can afford to rent that our youth can afford to rent. That is what we are proud of, ladies and gentlemen. I don't need Mr. Kurz to try to turn this off on every occasion. So that will certainly be a topic in the context of the election campaign. Mrs. Köstinger's here. I have to say a few words to Mrs Köstinger now, since she is always talking about environmental protection, but in reality it is embarrassing. This is a laugh number, Mrs. Colleague, which you delivered. You should actually recognize that environmental protection is one of the very central points. Now I'm looking at what you actually did. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yeah, that's about time, thank you. You, the ÖVP, have made the attempt and have been the only party for it – thanking everyone else – that the priority of environmental protection – we are talking about climate disasters, which are not excluded from the constitution. The economic location for which all of us are acting anyway is supposed to be pushed forward, so that one can relativize it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – It is absolutely embarrassing that you have done this as an Environment Minister, that speaks for you, I can tell you that. [[Call to the ÖVP:... how much frustration is...?]] However, it also speaks for you, namely that during your time in Brussels, the ÖVP was always involved in almost every decision against environmental protection measures. [[Abg. Haubner:... unworthy of a lawyer!]] In the case of glyphosate, that is the drug that causes the bee death for which high penalties have already been imposed in the US, of course, the group around Mrs. Köstinger is full of it. Who needs bees? We don't need bees, get out of here! - Yes to the glyphosate! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is your policy, I can tell you. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] The Schmankerl – and then I will come to the conclusion, Madam President – is the overscheduling of the Federal Environment Agency. We have an environmental office in Vienna, where, logically, people from Vienna work. I don't know which devil She rode, Mrs. Köstinger: This must, of course, come out of Vienna, namely Klosterneuburg. There are long roads, there are many cars that can drive, which of course emit a lot of NOx. That's great! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] – How do you come to such a sick idea, Mrs. Minister, ex-minister, do you have to say right? How can you do such a thing? If so. Your achievements and the achievements of Mr. Kurz are short, then porters! But I don't think that's the way it will be in the future. That's what we're going to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11693	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11738	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I come as Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce Austria does not miss out on this immense speech by Mr Jarolim. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to its important task of representing the interests of entrepreneurs in Austria and, in addition to another important task, of providing service for entrepreneurs in Austria and acting as the largest non-state education provider in Austria, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce has also been responsible for carrying out these tasks with the greatest possible efficiency and with the greatest possible protection of the contributions made by members to the Chamber. This has led, among other things, to the voluntary implementation of a very comprehensive reduction programme for compulsory contributions of EUR 150 million by President Leitl in 2000 and, of course, to the fact that the cost has been adjusted accordingly in the Chamber of Commerce. On the revenue development that the board is constantly accused of: Since 2000, the contributions received by the Chamber of Commerce' Organisation have moved Austria far below the consumer price index, because, in the meantime, for the third or fourth time, the Chamber of Commerce has voluntarily reduced its contributions in five, six-year intervals. There are other organisations with compulsory membership, which are far, far away or far beyond. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] But I do not want to get into this debate here, nor is it the purpose of my speech. What I want to say is that this revenue reduction has, of course, necessarily brought cost reductions. Since a large proportion of the expenditure of the Chamber of Commerce is personnel expenditure, it has inevitably resulted in the need for a significant reduction in staff levels at that time – starting in 2001 – at the same time. However, this was not done with cancellations, but it was offered to the employees, especially the older ones, a programme which they could use voluntarily, but at the same time they had to commit themselves to being available to the Chamber of Commerce or to the member companies in addition to their know-how. That's why you've done your salary improvements and then also your work through an outsourced association. Of course, in order to serve these payments to these retired employees, they had to be paid by the board from the budget. This is neither an illegal nor an intrusive process, but it is a completely logical process that would not have been possible to organize at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Drozda:... Pension fund!]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: At the time, this was a programme, which was unanimously decided by the Bureau of the Economic Chamber of Austria with the votes of the Bureau members of the Economic Association, with the voice of the member of the Free Trade Association – at the time still ringing freedom of expression – but also by the representative of the S & D Economics Association, and which has been reviewed x-fold by the control office and other control bodies – and it has never led to an objection. Just because this is now scandalizing an investigative newspaper, which is the occasion to take, colleague Jarolim, and in this way constructing party funding from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, that is blatant, that is disgraceful, that is really determined to reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from that: Mr. Bundeskanzler, out of service Sebastian Kurz, to connect with something that was started in 2001, which speaks for itself and can no longer be surpassed by ridiculousness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11806	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the votes, and I ask for peace. [[Abg. Jarolim: In the pocket of Mr. Kurz...!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Don't be there alone!]] We shall vote on the draft law in 630 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Gerstl. I shall therefore vote first of all on the part concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We are entering a separate vote on Article III as amended by the Committee's report, and I am seeking the approval of those Members of the House who are in favour of this part of the bill. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[14:30:11]] 3rd. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 773/A by Dr Alfred J. Noll, Members of Parliament on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) (631 p.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11872	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wittmann is the first to speak. - Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11899	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's about art. 142 para. 2 lit. (b) that the Constitution provides for a possibility of action before the Constitutional Court of Justice in the event of a breach of the law which is liable in the event of an act of office. So it is not that we are inventing something new, but we have a paragraph in the Constitution that allows us to make a ministerial contribution, but only with the majority of Parliament. Since the majority is always the government and the representatives of the government groups sitting here in the House will not sue against their own ministers, it is dead right. There are two ways: You can say you're going to get rid of this paragraph – that's one of the options – or you say you're going to revive it. I am on the side of Mr Noll and I am in favour of revitalizing him. Why am I for that? – Because in the last 17 months some changes have been made to the form of encounter here in Parliament. Parliament has simply been disregarded, and Parliament has been partially eliminated by an extremely high level of operation. I would remind you that projects have been put into the wrong committees, I would remind you that the time limits for evaluation have been reduced so that 212 laws have been subject to a twelve-day review. I recall that one has tried to make it possible – the Minister of Social Affairs has introduced it – that executions can already be carried out before a law is passed. This is in the direction of clear intentional violation of Article 18 of the Federal Constitution. It says that enforcement can only work by law. If one is constantly faced with such violations, which are really limited to intent, in 17 months' time, even the disdain of Parliament by the Federal Chancellor, then one has to say that it has been beneficial today for a federal government to take action and say: We're looking for consensus, we're trying to keep in touch with everyone, we're trying to make the greatest possible consensus, and we're not looking for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is what has changed over the past 17 months, namely that a form of encounter has been introduced here, which I did not know before. I've been here for 22 years, they've always tried to reach out to a large part of the laws together, they've always tried to find a consensus – more than 30 or 40 percent of the votes have even failed unanimously – which has really changed over the past 17 months. When one begins to bend the Constitution with deliberate applications, and knows that one acts unconstitutionally that one, as it were, presupposes the implementation of the law decision, then I think it is justified to do so. 142 para. 2 lit. (b) to make a minority right, to a right of a third of the Members. This is not because we have now failed, but in order to prevent a dissent policy to speak again of a consensus policy to return to the table that the Federal Chancellor has left, which he has deliberately left. He also refused the talks with the social partners. He simply wants the sole power, he tries with all the methods to achieve it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] This is also the reason for the re-election. Now that the surveys are good, we're making new elections now. We're going to choose until that comes out what he wants. – This is power policy, and this policy of power belongs to set limits. One of these limits would be to return to the lawfulness of the executions.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11967	I call Mr Gerstl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e11988	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! A large majority of the population has seen in the last 17 months a government implementing and doing what it has done. It is your right, Mr Wittmann, that you take a different view. There are enough control instruments for this, namely political control instruments towards the government. You could have filed a distrust request at any time – you then also put it and selected this federal government, but that was not in the sense of the population. [[call to the FPÖ]] It is not at all the core of this discussion that we have here today, because this is about legal responsibility, and I believe that we need to keep it apart for the people. The legal responsibility means that a Federal Minister, who is the supreme execution body of an illegal decision, can then be charged to the Constitutional Court. Nothing else! It is not a question of whether one of the ministers likes politically whether he has put the initiatives correctly, whether he is facing someone. If he doesn't face you, make a mistrust request, you have all the means to do it. But when it comes to whether a Federal Minister implements the laws lawfully or unlawfully, it is about that we only want to give this means to the Constitutional Court if that is really justified. What we do not want by this means is to lead every member of the government into destabilisation. If you make this a minority right, that will result in exactly what you say. You don't like Sebastian Kurz's style – then take him to the Constitutional Court and make him a Lame Duck. After that, a member of the government no longer has a chance to enforce the laws without action, he or she loses confidence in the population. – That would be the wrong procedure. They would thus produce instability and non-security. That is why we are very different from you here. I would also like to express my appreciation that the Freedom Party has changed its opinion shortly before this crucial meeting in the Constitutional Committee, because it is likely that we will continue to have a stable government, a secure government to which the people can rely, and not produce instability. [[Abg. Scherak: It's over!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12034	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12055	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The Freedom Party must now live with respect for its respect. It is highly respected by Mr Gerstl because it has fallen down because it has fallen down in a fascinating way. [[Congratulations on the NEOS and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] There is the saying that the location determines the point of view, and this, unfortunately, is very often the case in God's politics. This is often the case if you are in a government constellation and have to make compromises with the coalition partner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] To this end, one can understand to a certain extent, I at least understand it in person and understand how such constellations work. But what is bizarre is that the FPÖ, which has always been a minority right for the ministerial anchorage, now that it is not in any coalition with the ÖVP, has been in this position since the very latest. I can't understand. I think it was right that Mr Stefan, who unfortunately does not speak today, always said: The Prime Minister's name should be a minority right. I believe that this is in any case also the question of political culture, how to deal with it. Mr Gerstl is right that this is an essential question, yet I believe it is important that this National Council should have a further minority right. I don't understand the fact that the FPÖ is falling over there. The only thing that would make sense to me is that the next coalition will be prepared again. Mr Klubobmann Kickl has already made the offer in the newspaper today. - I think that's absurd.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12110	Next, Mr Schrangl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12132	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's great how many coalitions have been accused of us today. [[call to the FPÖ.]] But it's nice that the FPÖ is always there. I believe that this is also very important for Austria, for the Austrians, that FPÖ is definitely part of it. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have called for this. Yes, we want a change, but the right thing at the wrong time is also the wrong one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] I think it's the wrong signal to put this rod in the window at this time of this new federal government that works well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We are willing to talk about this pass from autumn onwards, when a elected government begins to talk about it. But now to give this signal to Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mrs. Bierlein – the first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria – I think at the wrong time. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is not an automatic!]] [[Abg. Scherak: I think Mr. Vice-Chancellor...!]] We are happy to be ready for discussion and will be happy to discuss this in a wider context in a Rules of Procedure, after the people have spoken, in a new constellation here in Parliament. By the way, Mr Vice-Chancellor – I hope he is still speaking – yesterday beautifully explained from the point of view of a lawyer where he still sees criticism points. Also in the same run with the ordinary dishes, I think you really have to look very closely there in order not to get something that no one wanted in the end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12213	Next, Mr Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12234	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You don't have to talk about this anymore, because what you have to say about it has been spoken for a long time, and that for years. Mr Scherak has put a bit of a rhetorical into the room, he is wondering why the FPÖ has fallen by – you can think about it. The first variant: It is an act of removal from Mr Strache, who made this request in 2015. He was well-founded. The parliamentary debates discussed this in detail. At the time, all the arguments for introducing a minority right were clearly justified by the FPÖ. The FPÖ may therefore try to distance himself personally from Mr Strache. The second variant, which is much closer: This is in fact a political accommodation to the envisaged coalition, to the continuation of cooperation with the ÖVP. Mr Gerstl thanked himself, politely as he is, for this too – this is also true of people who want to do something together, only: Argument, of course, is not that at all. The last thing I said was: Well, you're going to think that's a weak sign. That's what I'm telling you, I think it's completely different. For parliamentary sovereignty, it is always the right sign if the instrument used to control the government and help to achieve transparency in government activities is applied. I do not have to remember long the discussions on the establishment of committee of inquiry as minority law. At that time it was exactly the same: I can't! That's irresponsible! This would be an unnecessary plague for all those involved! – We have this and it works quite well. This would also be the case with a ministerial loan as a minority right. What has been forgotten – Mr. Vice-Chancellor will still be able to comment on it himself –: The first word I heard about him yesterday was that he said that, in principle, it would be a very right thing to formulate as a minority law, but in principle we have different facets on the issue of ministerial support, which we should also consider and in which we should set a balance in motion. I think the FPÖ has fallen once again. This time also without argument and without any reason. This is a love service to the ÖVP, and the Don't deserve your love here.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12282	Mr Schrangl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member. Consideration Please see the rules of an actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12307	Mr Noll said on this point that we had fallen by now. [[Rejoicing with Members of NEOS and JETZT.]] I'm actually correcting: We didn't fall by, but I'm still here. I like to be here, too. I also have a very good book, a doctoral thesis on this very subject. [[keeping a book in height]] It is also agreed on why this is still useful in Austria today. [[Abg. Noll: You have to read that!]] I'll be very happy to give that to him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] As I said, The right thing at the wrong time is also the wrong one.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12394	Mr President, that was not an actual correction. I think we still have to talk to all the political groups about actual corrections. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rosenkranz and Mr Noll.]] Mr Jabloner has now spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12424	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I spoke relatively neutrally yesterday at the Constitutional Committee meeting and pointed out the constitutional consequences. There are, in fact, areas of an objective illegality of a Federal Minister who are not currently sanctioned. To this end, the facilitation or effectiveness of the ministerial responsibility referred to in Article 142 B-VG would be useful. However, it must be borne in mind that such a company is linked to significant continuations. There is a need for an accompanying novel to the Constitutional Court Act. We need expertise, especially from the Constitutional Court. It is necessary to clarify the ratio of this measure to the normal legal bases. What happens to a pending procedure that expresses the legality of a decision? In particular, Article 142 B-VG imposes Article 143 B-VG, which provides in a very serious way that criminal charges against members of the Federal Government may be filed, in which, with the removal of the prosecutor's authorities and also the proper jurisdiction of the National Council as prosecutors and the Constitutional Court of Justice, they act as the only criminal court. You can do that or you can't want it. It can be seen as discrimination against the members of the Federal Government because they are concerned about the legal protection system. You can also see it as a privilege because they receive a special court. I want to see this completely neutral, but I wanted to prevent it with my word- report to the Committee yesterday that something is being done that is not clear about what consequences can be associated with it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12463	Next, Mr Fürlinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12485	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High Bureau! I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, for bringing the debate back to the agenda and for giving back your comments from yesterday's Committee meeting, which was very beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, I am briefly trying to present Parliament's control rights and minority rights. In recent weeks and days, we have not only found that the Constitution is elegant and beautiful, but that it is also very useful and contains provisions that make Parliament's control over the head of execution – the ministers – very possible. This begins in the case of requests to ministers, in the case of interconnection rights, and ceases with requests for distrust, which we have experienced here to the satisfaction of, and of, one who has been successful in 186. Furthermore, there is the establishment of a committee of inquiry as a minority right, which is a much broader and better minority right for Parliament to clarify matters and to ask questions. Control, ladies and gentlemen, by this House over the head of the administration – the Federal Government – is correct, but control is not equally charged. Monitoring, checking and supervising shall not be equated with charges, with accumulators. We live, as we know, in a changed time. Mr Noll did so yesterday at the Committee meeting. In this changed period, it was started to bring politics to courts. This is over 20 years ago. A former member of this House – who has now passed away – and still a member of this House, which is not present today – I mean Mr Haider and Mr Pilz, then began to use courts to make politics. In particular, they have bombarded prosecutors with advertisements, with injunctions, and thus began to try to criminalize politics a little. That's something I'm warning about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If one is indicated and this is already at the prosecutor's office, then there are always some who quickly have the papers at hand and hold them, whether they are allowed or not, in front of running ORF cameras. Once a little patched, the stain is on the jacket, and the spot on the jacket is not so easy to get back down. Often, ladies and gentlemen, it is enough to be of a different opinion in order to present this different opinion as a wrong – perhaps even criminal – or as a bad execution. The speech, Mr Wittmann, which you have held out here, really underlines my fear of where the idea of this constitutional change is going – I would like to stress once again: It is about the amendment of the federal constitution! - Aims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I warn against this criminalization of politics. I ask – because politics is people's representation through democracy: From whom in the people do you expect in fact, my Ladies and gentlemen, if he comes here and does this happen immediately when he has to answer to a court, if he may perhaps represent a more pronounced or different opinion? – That may not be the final conclusion of wisdom. If I present myself to the previous debates, I would like to say that I do not want to know how many of the mistrusts which have been dealt with here in this House over the last 18 months would have been cast into a ministerial arrangement and how long this minister would have been paralysed in his work; Mr Gerstl has just done this. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a question of the separation of violence, because legislation is not justice. If, as it is justified in this motion, a minority of the House is forced to find out what is a serious violation of the obligations, and with this indictment of a minister before the VfGH, then the separation of power, which is always an essential point for our constitution, and still the basic structure of this state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am saving myself all the other legal procedures that exist, including ministers, who are to be ordinary people and should not be discriminated against by other procedural rights, to be interested. In any case, one thing is certain: There are enough control and minority rights. That which you propose here is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12567	Next, Mr Jarolim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12594	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen behind the TV or especially in front of the TV – no matter how you want to see it! I believe that to all that has now been said, one must know: that Parliament's control instruments are exercised in accordance with the conditions in Parliament vis-à-vis the government. So if the government – otherwise it would not be the government – has the majority, then the control right here in Parliament does not work. That is why we can, of course, talk about developments and instruments for hours, but all of them do not move if the government is carried by Parliament as it is. That is why we know that: toothless and any explanation to this end is pointless. - That's the first point. The second point is that it is this instrument as a minority right in Germany – I am not sure if it is a democracy – and also in the Netherlands – I am not sure whether it is a democracy; you have to ask yourself this question now. There are also in Scandinavia. Please explain to me, therefore, what dangers are there for us and what is so terrible about it – after today's session I can only sign it quite properly – if all these countries that could be a model for us in many things! I am already excited about what Mr Stefan says, which will still speak after me as a speaker. I can only say one thing to Mr Schrangl: Mr. Col., whether you have fallen by before reading a book or after reading a book, is quite grudging, at least you have fallen down – in one case with one book in your hand, in the other without a book. I'd say maybe with book a bit failed. One thing should also be clear, ladies and gentlemen: The FPÖ was actually the pioneer for many years. We have always discussed internally how it looks if we should not agree. Mr Stefan, what have we discussed on this issue? For years the FPÖ was the party that wanted exactly that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Stefan: We have both become g’sheiter!]] It has been said today that it is commendable that the FPÖ has changed its opinion in the short term for more than ten years and has fallen by now – with a book in hand, of course, one also has to say somehow, that is an explanation. [[Abg. Stefan: And vice versa!]] No one really believes that this is not a clear signal that it will continue with black or turquoise blue in autumn. Our all task in the opposition is now, I believe, to really clarify this strange skim of Mr. Kurz, who tells us to everyone that red-blue is the future. Mr Wöginger is, I believe, also on the floor – I am already excited about his remarks. This is, I think, the ductus of the whole: It is important and central to show that this funny skim of the ÖVP is nothing but Humbug, nothing but Message Control. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] But this time this is going back, I can guarantee you. [[Abg. Sobotka: To leave politics in Parliament and criminal law in court!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12672	No one has made any mention of this. I'll close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 631 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. [[14:57:23]] 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (573 of the Supplements): Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG on child and youth assistance (632d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12715	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12742	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The now former black and blue government has begun to land child and youth aid in order to give countries much more competence. We have already criticized this and will continue to criticize it today, because this is now the next step, by trying to define more clearly how the competences are divided, and to try to create it in a uniform manner across the country. The question is very simple: Why are we trying to reach a 15a agreement in order to solve this at national level uniformly throughout the country, so as not to solve it uniformly at the end of the day? – That does not open up to me, and that does not open up to us. As a result, we will not go along today either. It is true, by the way, that since the beginning all the experts have been of different opinion and have said that it would be useful to raise this at the federal level, regardless of whether this is the child and youth statistics, the public prosecutor's office or also the evaluation made by the Ministry of Family and Youth last year. It is therefore perfectly clear that there should not be any change in the country. I would also like to ask the speakers why they want this change. No one's been able to explain that to me yet. The only thing is that the SPÖ is now also involved in this power policy game, which only concerns national leaders – and that is what we think is a witness to poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12779	The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12800	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! We are debating an agreement between the countries and the Federal Government on child and youth aid. This is an important issue, because the core task of child and youth assistance is to ensure child welfare. One of the main concerns is also to strengthen the educational strength of the family. For us in the ÖVP, the families as germ cells of our society have always been in the midst of our political work. That is why in recent years we have pursued a number of family policy measures, such as the family bonus I would like to mention here. These are measures that have successfully brought our families back to the focus of our society. This agreement, which we will decide today, is intended to maintain the level of protection already existing in the implementing laws of the countries. Children's and youth assistance is to be uniformly designed, jointly standardized and continuously developed throughout Austria. Reporting obligations, evaluations and the obligation to observe new scientific knowledge in the field of child and youth assistance in the future are intended to ensure a high quality standard. That is what the countries agreed with the League. We should not stand in the way of this outcome of the negotiations, which is why I am seeking the appropriate broad support for this law. However, this agreement is also the preliminary conclusion of the start-up of unbundling of competences between the Federal Government and countries. In December 2018, we amended the Federal Constitutional Act to ensure that the children's and young people's care will be the only competence of the countries in legislation and enforcement. In doing so, our then Minister for Reform Josef Moser has taken a first step towards simpler and clearer responsibilities and has removed, also with other steps, mutual blockades between the federal government and countries. It is only a shame that many other projects have now been put on hold by the end of the legislative period, because this then government was distrusted, which many still cannot understand. This is the first time that have only been implemented if the new People's Party is again part of the next government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Some things have already been started in recent months, such as tax reform or minimum pension. I hope that some of them, already shown in the budget, can still be implemented. However, I would also like to point out a law important for childcare: The Federal National Agreement on the Financing of Afternoon Service is due to expire next September. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] The proposed Education Investment Act should ensure the financing of afternoon care beyond the next September. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to call on this Education Investment Act to be adopted, because if we do not adopt this law, the financing of afternoon care will fall from the next school year, and we are certainly facing one – you can say – financial crisis of the communities or of the parents who have to take over these costs. The solution is on the table. I ask you, let us continue this step in the sense of our families. Let's go this way! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12854	Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12876	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We are dealing with the 15a agreement between the Federal Government and the countries on the division of competences of child and youth assistance. Last year, this issue has been very hard on us. In this present 15a agreement, the current standards of the Federal Children's and Youth Assistance Act 2013 are definitely secured. The Federation is obliged not to steal completely from responsibility. This is particularly important to us. Further development must also not be ignored. It is the environment for the improvement of the living conditions of these children and young people, who are often really in psychological and physically difficult situations. Your living conditions simply need to be really improved. The involvement of experts, experts in science is also well defined in Article 4 and essential for a truly positive change in this area. I would also like to focus briefly on a second subject. I have tabled a motion for a resolution, which is part of the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth, dealing with the issue of the Children's Rights Board, a consultative body set up in the Federal Chancellor's Office, which has been working since 2012 as a permanent coordination mechanism for the implementation of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. At the meeting in December 2018, this Children's Rights Board decided to convene an expert body, which will install at the federal level a specialist advisory board for the evaluation and further development of child and youth assistance in addition to the planned regulatory area of the 15a agreement on child and youth assistance. The objective set out in the 15a agreement of the ongoing development of the legal framework for child and youth assistance within the meaning of truly high uniform standards can only be achieved through a defined competence in this area. This is the task of a federal initiative. It is unlikely that we will not be given the desired result, so as the tenth contractual partner in this 15a agreement, the Federation is really called upon to take appropriate steps and establish appropriate structures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This proposal also contains a precise list of how this body could be composed. At this point a thank you to all the experts and participants of the Children's Rights Board! In fact, we should listen much more often to the expertise of these really great people who work in it, listen to it and draw it up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They meet for a new appointment on Friday, and I would be pleased if all the representatives of the parties of the High House's children and youth would be present at this meeting of the Children's Rights Board, because it has never occurred in this legislative period that all the political parties were really present in this body, which is very bad. We celebrate the 30th anniversary of the children's rights in Austria – an incredibly joyful birthday! In the interests of best care for children and young people, child and youth assistance can only be improved through a truly continuous evaluation and further development. It is also urgent to ensure adequate funding. A failure to develop or, otherwise, perhaps even to force a heterogeneous design of child and youth assistance depending on the federal state is a strong violation of the UN Convention on Children's Rights. For us as a social democracy, this is definitely not portable.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12936	Mr Werner Herbert is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e12960	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speakers have already preceded a lot of things – not to say, very much. In concrete terms, this 15a agreement is about the fact that in December of last year, responsibility for child and youth assistance was transferred from the federal government to the competence of the countries. In order to ensure that, on the one hand, the high levels of protection that have existed so far continue to exist and, on the other hand, that, despite country competence, there will be uniform national protection standards, this 15a agreement is necessary. The countries commit themselves to further develop and maintain the minimum standards already set by the Federal Government. The Federal Government, in turn, undertakes to ensure the flow of information between the Federal Government and countries in important institutions and authorities when it comes to child abuse or child abuse, on the one hand, and on the other hand to develop standards for child protection research, as well as to ensure appropriate statistics. I think all in all, it is a good and important measure to ensure and develop the process of shifting federal competences to national competences, which was launched in December of the previous year. I can therefore invite you to give your consent to this 15a agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13000	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13021	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I start with topics that accompany us in politics over and over again; it is administrative reform and the lack of competence between the federal government and countries. This has always been the case, for example in the Austrian Convention. The call for a stopover and a move forward in this area has become ever louder in recent years. You can turn it and turn it around, as you want, the last government under Chancellors Kurz has started a way to tackle the lack of competence in the federal constitution, and child care and youth care has migrated at country level. The consequence is this 15a agreement with the said minimum standards. I do not fully understand the criticism of why the local authority should not be able to carry out proper child and youth assistance both in the legislative, in legislation and in enforcement. Child care and child care are a very sensitive issue because, starting with child abuse up to child abuse, it is about very individual personal situations. It should also be borne in mind that the path between the caregivers, the caregivers, the aid organisations and those working there is a short, more comprehensible and logical one, as well as the legislative and execution. At this point I would like to thank all social pedagogists very much for their very difficult, sometimes physically and psychologically challenging work. The criticism of different standards is removed from the world by this 15a agreement. It is therefore not inconclusive to disagree with this agreement, because it regulates exactly what is being feared, so that what is being feared does not occur. Uniform standards: The Federal Government provides statistics and also child protection research. He has committed himself to this. Why the countries themselves cannot exercise control or this control is worse than that of the Federation is not understandable. By the way, the People's Procuratorate is also active in this field. Consistency decomposition, uniform standards, proper control: Child and youth assistance is on a good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13067	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – This does not seem to be the case. We shall therefore vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitution in 573 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this as a sign of this. – This is the majority, accepted. [[15:12:58]] 5. Point Report of the People's Procuratorate Committee on 42. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. (III-240/628 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13113	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I should like to welcome the people's lawyers who have now arrived and the Volksanwälte in our midst. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] The debate is the first Mrs Diesner-Wais to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13149	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanwälter, dear Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Today's debate on the People's Procuratorate's Report is the last one on a report by the so-called national lawyers, because their term of office ends with the 30th century. June 2019. The public prosecutorship is an important control body of Parliament and for many people it is the only point of contact if it has difficulty with authorities. The People's Procuratorate has low access and enjoys great confidence in the population. This also shows us the review cases of 2018. 16 000 people have been heard with their concerns at the People's Procuratorate, 66 complaints per working day. I would really like to thank the divorced lawyers very much, because they have done good work. They have developed the confidence of the population, have approached the cases with care and patience and have made a successful commitment in the interests of the people. In particular, I would like to thank our Advocate General Gertrude Brinek very much, for she has been particularly committed to the subject of the law on the law on the law of the law on matters of law and has made valuable contributions to this. In addition to many test activity details, important problem areas have been identified in the 2018 report. I would like to make three points. Detainees: To this end, the public prosecutor has repeatedly discovered the same problems. As a result of overcrowding and lack of employment, aggression and violence arise. The second issue in which the Commission was active is the complaints about the quality of the opinions, as there are a small number of experts and no quality standards for the opinions. I would like to say: We have drafted a law of enforcement in the Federal Minister Moser's department, which is now fixed and ready and could have been decided if the government work had not been completed. I hope, however, that this will be implemented by the next government, because it will take full account of important public prosecutors' suggestions. Another field of conflict, which is shown, is accessibility. There are often problems in the implementation. People with disabilities are often faced with disadvantages in different areas. We see the diversity of topics the public prosecutor has to deal with, and if we choose three new lawyers tomorrow, I would like to say: We stand at the public prosecutor's office, since it was founded, and it's for us to be self-confidence. It is clear that the funds will be made available as before. There is no need for any motion for a resolution to ensure this for the future. I can still wish my next seat Werner Amon all the best in his new activity today. He is a guarantee that the path taken by the already-acting Volksanwälte will continue. He has a high level of competence in administration, a friendly relationship with people and has been human rights spokesperson for five years. He is there with tireless use. I'd like to wish him all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13204	Mr Einwallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13226	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! In the People's Procuratorate Committee, Mr. Volksanwalt Fichtenbauer said he had to bore us a little bit with statistics. – I tell you, Mr Volksanwalt, the opposite is true. They do not bore us with statistics, but, on the contrary, this is a very impressive proof of the public prosecutor's activity. More than 16,000 cases a year show very, very intrusive how necessary the public prosecutor's office is, and on the other hand, how high the acceptance of the public prosecutor's office in the population is. This is therefore a reason to say thank you today. I thank you, but also the whole team of the People's Procuratorate for your work that you do all year round. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Lausch and Mr Schimanek on his work.]] The People's Procuratorate is the smallest organ of the Republic and captivates with a very, very great efficiency. At the same time, we are always discussing this annual report here in the house, the clear commitment to the public prosecutor's office and the importance of it. What is not given, however, is a sufficient amount of human and financial resources. Again and again, the report also points out that there are temporary posts that should be converted into permanent posts, which should also be a long-term security. So the opposite is the case. It needs a strengthening and a clear commitment to the public prosecutor's office, not only here at the speaker's desk. That is why, Mrs Diesner-Wais, we are tabling this motion for a resolution. It is very a pity that it has not succeeded in reaching unanimity across all parties to equip the public prosecutors with appropriate means. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Allow me because it is your last report and because of my speaking time I no longer have the time to deal with points of content, that I still use my time now to thank you for your work as a Volksanwälte. That's important to me. And allow me, on behalf of my group, to extend a very special thank you to Dr Günther Herb. Günther Herbs and me, as politics sometimes does, have been a common path for several years, and we met each other in our political careers over and over again. When I came to the Federal Council, I was in charge of the Court of Auditors, Günther Kräub was in charge of the National Council of Auditors at that time. Then there was a time when he was the Federal Managing Director and I was the SPÖ's national managing director, and now I can say thank you as a public prosecutor here in the National Council. Dear Günther Herbs, I say thank you for your prudent, committed and balanced work! You have managed to achieve such a high acceptance here in the country with your very strong social competence, your feeling for the people, but also as Secretary General of the International Public Prosecutorship or Ombudsman Association beyond our borders. I also know that it is not so easy for you to leave this function now, because you would have planned a lot, but also your handling with it testifies to your extraordinary personal size. Dear Günther! I am absolutely convinced that we will remain connected, because the decisive is not the function in which we are connected, but that our heart beats for the same idea and the same conviction. Thank you very much! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:22]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13360	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Schimanek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13384	Mr President. My dear Mrs. Volksanwalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I can only join the praises of my previous speakers. The Public Prosecutor's Office is set up to control the public administration and has been in the constitutional rank at federal level since 1981. It is available to all women and men in Austria in the event of problems with authorities and has become an essential element. In addition to the role of the public prosecutor since 2012, namely to ensure the protection and promotion of human rights in Austria, it is also many other tasks which it carries out, for example the newly adopted Opcat and also the Home Victim Pension Act, which the people concerned in Austria to increase safety. Since July 2018, persons who have been abused as children and adolescents in hospitals, psychiatric institutions, hospitals and children's homes have now also been able to apply for a home-sacrifice pension. These novels closed serious legal gaps and thus followed a demand from the Public Procuratorate. The review of respect for human rights in judicial institutions, barracks, retirement and nursing homes, housing communities for young people and institutions for people with disabilities is an important part of the public prosecutor's work. In figures, this means that the public prosecutorship can review almost 4,000 institutions in Austria. It does so every year in 500 facilities. At present, respect for the rights of people with disabilities in the income sector is in the focus. An abuse the public prosecutor has long shown is that people who work in disabled workshops are not really insured by social law and are thus still disadvantaged. This too is a large area. As a member of the People's Procuratorate Committee, however, it is now up to me to say thank you for the good cooperation of the Volksanstalts with the Committee and also with Parliament. It was an excellent cooperation. I would also like to thank the employees of the People's Procuratorate, because without their commitment, the Public Procuratorate would not be able to deal with this huge Pensum. I would also like to thank my popular lawyer, Dr. Fichtenbauer, at this point. In these years, you have taken up a lot of topics that were important to us, whether it was the fake registrations you were dealing with, or the math matura that was very difficult at the moment. Last year almost every fifth the math matura didn't pass, now it's every 20 years, thank God. The public prosecutors have also started an official examination, and I believe this has also led to improvements. The lack of personnel in the police inspections has always been a major concern to you, and it is very important – I think, that my colleague Mühlberghuber will address it – that you have chronically ill children. There has even been a trade event in Parliament, and your commitment has been huge. I know you still have a lot of suggestions or initiatives for us, but I promise you that we will continue to pursue them. I am very glad that we have managed to make this request with the confession to the public prosecutor's office and its long-term financing together with the SPÖ, JETZT and the NEOS. This is necessary, and I know that from my many years of activity as a minister of the People's Procuratorate Committee. This demand has been made again and again by the lawyers, and I am very glad that we can still make this gift for you to say goodbye. What would have been very important to me personally is the expansion of testing competence. This too has repeatedly called for the public prosecutorship. The People's Procuratorate would like to exercise the audit competence analogous to the Court of Auditors. That is why I make a request to that effect, knowing that the SPÖ and also the ÖVP will unfortunately not agree to this request. I am sorry because this would have been a good signal to the new lawyers who will be elected tomorrow. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would nevertheless be pleased if the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues could support this request. At this point I would like to personally thank the three lawyers, wish them all the best for the future, and I hope we will see each other again at one event or another. All love, all good for you! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[15:28]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13515	The application is properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Krisper is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13539	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen at home! Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your work, you and your employees, whom I have been able to get to know and appreciate. I would like to thank you for the report we have received this year, also because it is through the pictures of the police missions on 31 December. May has again gained special relevance and up-to-dateity. What happened? - We've seen the pictures of these two inserts. A media democracy then comes to the point that 1,000 experts felt they were expressing their views on the use of command and force force. There was a lot of emotion, there was much pre-conception, but also Persilschein exhibition on the other side. To make this clear: What do we all agree on? – I think we agree that police officers in our country are doing a dangerous and challenging job for our security every day, and it is important to thank you. But we also agree that police officers are people and can make mistakes. That there must be consequences is my conviction. Why? – For the fair police officers whose reputation otherwise suffers as a whole, for the confidence that the population in our security equipment can have, and for the victims of truly disproportionate use of forced force. In these cases, the police have promised again independent and rapid investigations. But there is no such thing in Austria, because first, in the first 24 hours, the police are finding out against themselves, the Special Investigation Unit: therefore dependent, but quickly. After that, the prosecutor's office comes: independent, but slow and dependent on the evidence that the police have secured against themselves. So we have no independent and rapid investigations. This has been taken up by the People's Procuratorate in its last report. It considers that, in its view, an independent investigating body for abuses outside the BMI would continue to be set up to conduct investigations in the independent experts together with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this sense, I put forward two motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: Resolution Deputies Dr. Stephanie Krisper, colleagues on “Special powers at the Public Prosecutor’s Office in cases of alleged police violence” The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a proposal for a law which aims to strengthen the efficiency and independence of investigations in cases of alleged police force. In particular, it is suggested that special responsibility be established with the public prosecutors.’ Thank you. [[Congratulations with NEOS and NOW.]] [[15:32]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13793	Both applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mrs Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13818	Mr President. Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen, This morning our Federal Chancellor Cicero quoted, and I would like to bring another Cicero quote that fits very well today. He writes in “Deofficis” about the most important virtues of politicians. In the turbulent time we are in, this is not uninteresting for all of us. The virtues about Cicero are also very important guidelines for the lawyers, the divisive and the new lawyers. For politics, he describes three virtues in this order: First and most important, Cicero calls the braveness. I don't have to do that; we all know what that means in politics. Second, he mentions the virtue of justice, and justice means not to work for its own advantage, but for the common good. As a third virtue, he calls the practical action. With the experience we all have, we understand why these three virtues are important for politics. They have demonstrated this as a popular lawyer and a national prosecutor, thus rehabilitating politics in a difficult time. I would like to thank you for that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rosary.]] In your report on preventive human rights control, you have a chapter that is very important to me personally, namely child and youth aid. In your 2017 special report on this topic, you have also studied and reported very much on the situation of children and young people in Austria. I would just like to mention a few highlights from this report because this is important for our political debate. First of all: The number of children decreased, i.e. children in foreign homes, has increased considerably over the last ten years, from 8,000 to more than 13,000. They have found that this number is quite different in the different federal states, for example in Vienna, Styria and Vorarlberg, about a third more children are in tourist accommodation than in the other federal states. They have also written that there are supplements for children who are brought from one federal country to another, who are foreigned there, and that this creates a problem for the parents who want to visit their children. We know, too, and we hear it again and again, that many Members are given a message that parents often feel very, very badly treated in the acceptance process and in the custody process. We should take your report on the occasion of a wide discussion of how we can improve the situation in child and youth assistance, how we can better help families in crisis situations. This debate is urgently needed. We've led them far too little. This also includes how you address this in your report that we must do enough to prevent it, because the loss of a child is and must only be one last one. Means. The concept of early aid is recognized as prevention. All those who work for early help say that they are too little funding and that they cannot work all over the world. I am pleading, just as the People's Procuratorate does, for ensuring the rule requirement for early assistance and that early assistance can be offered to all families in a truly comprehensive way. One last point: The numbers have increased, you've reported on it. We have a higher number of reduced children. We have an increasing need in the child psychiatric system. These numbers are shocking. There are differences between the federal states, but we do not actually know the reasons for all these figures. As you say in the People's Procuratorate's Report: We have to do cause research, we have to get to the bottom of these problems and see where we can start as politicians and politicians. The knowledge is there, it's interdisciplinary, it has to be managed. The People's Procuratorate points out how important this is. She will and should continue to do so. I wish you all the best for this important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13872	Mrs Schatter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13893	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! It is unimaginable cruel: Children and young people, who, for whatever reason, need to leave their families and are brought abroad to find protection there, experience the exact opposite. They experience the place where they should find protection, mental, physical and sexual violence and abuse. ==References== On July 10, 2017, victims of this violence may apply for a home-sacrifice pension if they are between 10 and 10 years old. ==References== He was the victim of a violent crime in a home, a nursing family, or a hospital on December 1, 1999. The pension, which made up just over 300 euros in 2018, receives applicants who have already received a flat-rate compensation without further examination. In all additional cases, the Pension Commission of the Public Prosecutor's Office assesses the case. Since the entry into force of the Home Victim Pension Act, more than 1,000 applications have already been submitted, which undoubtedly reflects the need for this small reparation for the violence suffered. At this point I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate and, in particular, the responsible People's Lawyers Dr. Günther Herbe, who is also Chairman of the Pension Commission, very much for the fact that they have dealt with these applications with this vehemence. A warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I am also seeking the future People's Procuratorate to maintain this vehemence, because it is urgently necessary to give these people this little recognition. They told us in the committee that some of the applicants had died before the facts could be examined, which makes the urgency of this reparation for violence suffered even more clear. It is therefore important that the public prosecutorship in this area is equipped with sufficient staff. We have already submitted a request to ensure funding and personnel, and I am looking for your support. A year ago, at the request of the People's Procuratorate, we unanimously implemented a reform of the Home-sacrifice Pension Act, which has closed gaps in the law. Thus, there are also persons who are in private homes or hospitals In the case of pensioners who have not yet reached the age of pensioners, and disabled persons who have been abused, are entitled to interest-rate benefits. That was a necessary and important step. There is now still a note from the People's Prosecution's report on improving the handling of matters where there are still difficulties in the process, and that is the sluggish response to requests to the Catholic Church. Dr. Günther Kräube told us there was already a conversation. At this point I would also ask the competent representatives of the Catholic Church to do everything possible to give these people this small reparation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13948	The next item is the speech by Mr Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e13969	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwälte and Mr. Volksanwälte! Appreciate listeners! High house! In order to prevent or at least correct negative events in public administration, effective control is required. This control is exercised by the People's Procuratorate, and even if the authorities and departments concerned sometimes have no pleasure with it, they only know too well that they themselves bear the responsibility for having these abuses at all. As an example, consider the precarious situation in police stop centres. I am thinking of the fire at the Hernal Police Station in 2018, which caused six prisoners and injured six people. The public prosecutor noted the need for a uniform system of fire protection measures throughout the country and demanded that cells be equipped with highly flammable mattresses and pillows in the future. As early as 2015, the Public Prosecutor's Office had called for these measures on the occasion of a similar fire. Passing, if anything, little. The reason: too few staff, lack of financial resources in the budget. This unsatisfying, intolerable situation has occurred in some areas and is particularly true of the police and justice. As a Member of Parliament, I visited the Anhaltezentrum Fürdenberg and the Graz-Jakomini judicial centre last year. ==References== May of this year – right after the end of the coalition – I visited the Graz-Jakomini Justice Centre again. As I took along on my first visit, so to speak, a rucksack with misunderstandings, but also with proposals for improvement, and I also sought the discussion with the former Minister of Justice, I made a new visit at the suggestion of the staff representatives and trade unions. [[towards Abg. Moser Viewing]] The following has happened: In contrast to the first time, I was accompanied by two extra officials sent to Graz by the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Justice, and on the other hand, the members of the trade union and the staff representatives should not accompany me this time. This misunderstanding could only be clarified after a telephone call with the Directorate-General. This makes me the real point: It is not always pleasant if abuses – whether indebted or not – are revealed or even known to the public, and unfortunately, these abuses are often piled up in the public administration. That is why it is so important for the public prosecutor to show such abuses tirelessly and to take responsibility for the authorities concerned. I would like to thank you, Mrs Volksanwalt, and also you, Mr Volksanwälte, for the long and good work you have done. I am particularly grateful to those colleagues and officials of the public administration who are exposed to these abuses every day and who nevertheless do a very good job. How many burn-outs, how many sick people, how many sickness-related retirements could you have avoided if you had taken care of proper working conditions in good time? The dominant problem and the main cause of the majority of the present misunderstandings is the staff problem. However, this problem does not exist until yesterday or for a year – no, it is like a red thread through the last decade of red and black governments that, despite the immanent lack of personnel and the knowledge that thousands of police officers will retire in the coming years due to the so-called baby boomer generation, do not have proper planning management. I remember the then Minister Kickl-Leiter, who in 2014 carried out a structural and personnel policy to lock 122 police stations, 22 of them alone in Styria. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ]] [[Phone: Kickl- Leiner]] At the same time, more promised were the Styrian police officer, but this later considered more a promise than a promise. That concludes, ladies and gentlemen, Since the entrance of FPÖ to the government and the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior by Minister Kickl, an unprecedented staff offensive has been deployed. With the reception and training of new police officers, there will be a relief and improvement of the working conditions of the co-workers and thus a further resolution of the abuses that remain. Ladies and gentlemen! This successful path, which will also solve many of the problems identified by the Public Prosecutor's Office, will continue. It is up to you, valued listeners, to use your voice to make this possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14012	The next item is the speech by Mr Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14033	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, Dear listeners, dear listeners! Dear sisters, dear Seeher! Estimated Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! A functioning democracy needs a rule of law to guarantee individual freedom. The People's Procuratorate as an essential institution and as a supporter of Parliament is doing a valuable and important work to make the right to good administration become reality as well. For many people, for many citizens, this institution is a contact point for pursuing things that may not otherwise find the respect and hearing they have earned in the area of competence. Therefore, from our side there is a clear commitment to the public prosecutor's office and a warm thanks for the work done by this team during this period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw up an aspect of the report which concerns a social phenomenon with which we all have in the next few years. We will have to do intensively, in which we are currently in the middle of it: the transformation of our society by digitization. I refer here to a concrete example of which the public prosecutor has accepted in an observation and investigation: The AMS has launched a new method, the use of a software to assess the chances of people seeking work, and to determine what measures it takes to create re-entry as quickly as possible. The intention was to find individual solutions to enable people to get back on quickly. Citizens were very concerned and expressed their opinion that it was an anonymous software, almost an extended arm of an anonymous bureaucracy, which is determined by a computer program on fates. The People's Procuratorate has adopted this issue and has come to the positive conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that it deals with maximum transparency. On the homepage of the AMS you will find the criteria and the different categories of how this algorithm works. It was also noted that the primacy of man must remain, because it is essential that technology serves man and not man of technology. As a result, the Public Prosecutor's Office made a significant contribution to improving the situation. It has been argued that the so-called soft skills, the personality characteristics that a person brings into the sphere of communication, into which creativity is created, are still to an insufficient extent taken into account as such. Work is being done on this improvement. However, I would like to raise this issue once again to a higher level, ladies and gentlemen, because the algorithm and digitalization in all areas of life are facing new challenges for the administration, for us as legislators and for the government – not only from Austria. We need an even better interaction of all the institutions in the future. I would also like to thank the colleagues and colleagues of all the groups in the Consumer Protection Committee very much for having accepted this issue in an expert hearing. It is essential that we create an even better interplay in the future in order to make good choices in Parliament for the benefit of the population. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to stress that the public prosecutorship enjoys great reputation far beyond the borders of Austria. This institution is also appreciated and honoured as a model of experience, which also brings new approaches in many European countries. As an Austrian, it should make us proud that people's concerns are taken seriously and that we work together to implement them positively. In this sense: Thank you very much to Mrs Volksanwältin, to Mr Volksanwälte for the valued work! The People's Party will continue to support this path in the future, because as you know, we have just begun.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14097	The next item is Mrs Wimmer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! I would also like to thank the People's Procuratorate for the excellent and valuable work that has been done, and Thank you also for the two extensive and quality reports you have presented to us and with which we can work well! An essential chapter in the report on Preventive Human Rights Control is that on the judicial institutions. In prisons, ladies and gentlemen, the same problems always arise: Overnighting, lack of employment and poor conditions of premises in individual prisons. Minimum standards in the accommodation and care of male and, in particular, of female convicts and convicts laid down are very difficult to comply with due to the spatial circumstances and the personnel. The implementation of the housing group should be the case in particular in the case of women, but it is still not implemented for various reasons; these are circumstances such as the building conditions to be mastered, and it is a very cost-intensive story to solve. Of course, the women's departments also need additional staff resources to enable the housing group execution or even open-day detention rooms. The range of work offered to female prisoners would also be extended, with job opportunities currently mainly limited to cleaning activities, activities as close-ups or in laundry. In summary, one could say: Prisoners should be released into freedom as far as possible, otherwise there is a very high risk of a relapse to criminality. Resocialisation into society, however, needs better conditions, both for the imprisoned and for the staff. Justice at last needs the necessary budgetary resources to meet these legal requirements.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14161	Next item is the report by Mr Werner Herbert. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14185	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I should like to thank you once again for this very comprehensive and very informative report, which once again highlights the importance of the People's Procuratorate in society, but which also underlines the importance of the People's Procuratorate as a control body of the administration. I would like to make two specific points, which prove, in particular, to me as a police officer in my bread profession, the importance of controlling the public prosecutor's office in this area. On the one hand, I should like to address the lack of personal equipment for police inspections and to give the resultant indication that this has been the subject of the public prosecutor's examinations over the past few years. It has already been found at the time that due to the problem of this human deficiency, there is not only a high overload of the forces employed but also, of course, a high overtime load. In this context, I should like to stress once again the expertise of the Federal Chancellor's Office from 2007: 2007, precisely October 2007 – recalling the title “The Age Structure of the Federal Staff”, “Implications and Preview by 2020”. [[The speaker shall keep the above-mentioned document up to date.]] In this expertise of the Federal Chancellery, it was already pointed out – in autumn 2007 – that there are two areas that are characterised by a special personnel reduction situation. On the one hand, this was the area of teachers, for which a peak was set for 2016 at the time, a year in which a particularly drastic retirement leave will be recorded. On the other hand, this was the executive area of the police, for which it was found that by 2020 a third of all police officers will retire in the executive foreign service. Nothing has been done by the SPÖ/ÖVP government at that time. There was no staff offensive, there were no additional training places. On the contrary, one has even saved training courses, which then led to a very dramatic situation about two years ago. Only under the last Federal Government – under Minister of the Interior Kickl – has a plan-point offensive succeeded in getting some of this situation under control both in training and in providing additional planning points. We would have been on a good path if the ÖVP Interior Minister Kickl had not put the chair in front of the door and put this coalition in place. All in all, this shows that a lot of negative things have happened in the past, that our police officers have been caught back in time and that Interior Minister Kickl has done good and important work to tackle this problem permanently. What we did not get under control was the problem of overtime distribution in the executive. It was simply not possible to distribute the overtime within the National Police Directorates in such a way that they did not land in the central offices, but outside at the base where they need not only colleagues in use, but also the population by providing the police inspections with personnel accordingly. I would like this to happen in the next few months, because I wish the new Minister for the Interior Peshorn a corresponding initiative that you will find the right way again and that problem, this dilemma in the performance and design of tasks, in particular in the performance of the human tasks, will be somehow addressed. The second problem I would like to address briefly is the design of police inspections. Unfortunately, it is true that we have many police inspections that still have their origin in the – let us say – decades past, in which, while temporary construction improvements have always been made, they now seem highly questionable from the substance. I think that there would also be a financial offensive that we should at least allow our police officers to carry out their duties, but also to produce living and working circumstances. Perhaps a brief comment on colleague Krisper, who made a request concerning police force: Yes, Mrs Colleague, I think we agree that we want to critically question any form of non-legislative violence by the police or by force majeure. But what I don't want – and that's where I'm voting Unfortunately, they agree very much with the media coverage of the past days – it is that we are doing a classic police bashing here, which states that every serious criminal in Austria is subject to the presumption of innocence, and this is always shown in all media reports, only when it comes to adapting our executive officials, through questionable videos, through images that are in a bad look and perhaps There is no presumption of innocence in an adverse situation to be taken into a bad light. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is simply going to be going on to the police, cost it what it wants, just to perhaps serve a mood view in the population positively. That, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, our colleagues have truly not deserved themselves. Our police officers do a hard and often very unthankful job for the general public, for our people. They have really not deserved such an underestimation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14264	Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14285	Mr President. Mr. Volksanwälte and dear Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! First of all, I would like to briefly report to our spectators what the public prosecutors do and what they stand for. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Austria, consisting of three members, is established as a parliamentary Ombudsman for the control of public administration. It is available free of charge to all people who feel unfairly treated by administrative bodies and who have already exhausted all legal remedies in the event of problems with public authorities. We discussed, among other things, the issue of defects in the enforcement and lack of staff in the care sector in the Committee. At this point, I would like to thank the judicial officials, as well as all the employees who work in the various care professions, for their daily work. [[Complementary of the Abg. Tanja Graf.]] I would also like to thank the public prosecutors for doing such a great job and will continue to do it. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It has been reported that there is a massive shortage of staff in many areas – both in care and in public and private children’s homes. This is not only about missing employees, but also about the overarching documentation requirement. A graduate nurse told me that before she can do her job with her morning hygiene in patients before she can take care of the sick and caring people, she has to do the documentation duty on the tablet. A rescuer told me the same thing. For me, there is already a question of whether the documentation obligation comes before people. The events in the past have been answered with more bureaucracy. – Debureaucratisation is the right answer, and we, the ÖVP, stand for it. Furthermore, the increasing number of psychologically ill offenders has been reported in action. The circumstances there were called anti-therapy. It must be noted that for years there have been problems that were very well known, but unfortunately not solved. Our Minister of Justice, other than Moser, has already proposed and wanted to implement essential measures in this regard. Unfortunately, this project could no longer be implemented. Why do you think? – The entire government was selected in the last plenary session on the basis of the Rendi Kickl Pact. [[Abg. Jarolim: Who says that?]] What shakes me personally is the SPÖ, which has previously made a mistrust against Minister of the Interior Kickl out of service. SPÖ-Chefin Pamela Rendi-Wagner had just accused himself of being fearless at that time, and then the world turned rapidly: [[Abg. Jarolim: Is there a protocol to that?]] As soon as the government had been elected with the help of the SPÖ, there was a common discussion between the Minister of the Interior and Drozda in the back of the plenary room. They couldn't wait for it to end. Stability cannot be achieved with mistrust and power struggles. The inconceivable Ibiza video didn't really tang the SPÖ. However, for us, the ÖVP, every Austrian and every Austrian is at the centre, and we will continue to work tirelessly for these people. For our wonderful Austria, we will bring forward the economic location and secure our prosperity. There is no choice other than the Austrian People's Party in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14360	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14381	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Before I come to the actual point, maybe briefly to my previous speaker: I find it a pity and almost a little disrespectful to the People's Procuratorate that the People's Procuratorate report here is misused for party politics and for election reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim:... Mr President!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, dear Volksanwälter and Volksanwälte, I would like to use my speech to really thank you. All three leave their office, and I believe that it is possible to maintain, across the parties, that in the last few years every individual and, of course, the colleagues in their home have done excellent work. I should also like to thank you here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to comment on one of your reports, i.e. the right of registration or the right of registration. We have also been talking about this in the People's Procuratorate Committee. Mr Loacker has shown, among other things, that the reporting law is not actually working, and this is also reflected in the People's Procuratorate's Report. However, as a Lower Austrian, I would like to draw up a very special point, namely the link between the right of notification and the right to vote. Many know that in Lower Austria – and in Burgenland – unlike in other federal states, there is a right to vote, which is linked to the second residence right. If you look at this, you can see that in Lower Austria this is often not necessarily done very carefully, for example in the town community of Litsaw in the Waldviertel, where people at once lived in a wooden bath, only so that they could participate in the municipal council election, or in the town of Waidhofen at the Ybbs – Mr President, I suppose you will know – where ÖVP officials from other communities lived at once with ÖVP officials only so that they could participate in the election. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weidinger and Mr Zarits.]] That is why I believe that we here in the National Council need to take a very close look at the registration law, also in connection with the right to vote, because I believe that we are opening an additional door and a door to abuse, above all in these federal states, above all in these communities. If the resident doesn't even have to know if someone lives with him, that means not only that the police or the executive may be standing at the door at once, but also that these people can also, at one time, also in municipal council elections, in Lower Austria, for example, also in country elections. I don't think that's in the inventor's mind. That's why I think it's important to make an urgent repair here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14436	Mrs Mühlberghuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14457	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanwalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The 42nd. The People's Procuratorate report has again shown how much people trust the lawyers when they seek help and information when they need support, and in many cases positive results are also achieved. This report focuses on chronically ill children in kindergartens and schools. This is not a marginal issue, but a real big problem, because in Austria more than 190 000 children and young people with chronic diseases, such as asthma, allergies, diabetes and rheuma, live. These children quickly learn how to deal with their illness. There are also problems, however, as teachers are often afraid to make a mistake or have a problem with supporting these children in medical activities. There was also a special event in Parliament entitled “The Chronically Sick Child in the School System”. These difficulties were highlighted at this event, improvements were identified and recommendations made. As part of the Education Reform Act 2017, the initiative is already bearing first fruit, as this change of law clearly recognises the health activities of teaching staff as the exercise of service obligations. In 2018, a panel discussion was held at the Albert-Schweitzer-Haus in Vienna on the subject of “rights of chronically ill children”, in which many affected people also spoke and reported on their problems. It is still to occur that schools do not include children due to their illness. Although some of the public prosecutor's proposals have already been implemented, it is still a further way to implement all improvements and recommendations in order to best accompany our children on their way to life. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Volksanwalt, the two Mr Volksanwälten and also the People's Procuratorate for their commitment, for their work and for the good cooperation in the Committee. I would also like to thank you for the speech in the districts where you have found the proximity to the population, to the people. I wish you all the best for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14498	Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14519	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to Thank you very much to the People's Procuratorate and, in particular, to the three persons for their work. They all have done very good work in their fields and have developed the confidence of the population. I think that's a very essential thing. They have achieved real improvements for the countries, for the districts, for the municipalities – whether in the action or in the care sector – for this, thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The future lawyers Walter Rosenkranz, Bernhard Achitz and Werner Amon will also do good work because they have been selected because they bring a lot of political experience and expertise. I think that's exactly the most essential features that a good public prosecutor has to bring with him. He must have a feeling for the people and also know the measure of what you can achieve, where you can achieve something, or where it is not necessarily useful to pursue one thing. That is exactly what you have to be able to estimate as a popular lawyer, and that is often not quite easy. With Werner Amon, who has developed a lot of expertise in his long political work, who has long worked in the Human Rights Committee and in the field of internal security, which can rely on a very large professional fund, I am quite sure, for example, that he is predestined for this activity. I wish you, the new Volksanwälten, everything, all good and believe that the People's Procuratorate in this composition will surely have a good survival. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In general, it can be said that the public prosecutorship as an institution has proved itself very well. We also see in the report we are discussing today that complaints have fallen in some areas. It is precisely in this respect that the People's Procuratorate has achieved something through its implementation in politics. If one compares the Austrian with the German system in which the public prosecutor's institution does not exist, but in which more or less all concerns are dealt with in the parliamentary petition committee, one can see that since 1977 the Austrian public prosecutor's system has proved itself very well and strengthened as a parliamentary relief and control institution, which nevertheless acts very independently. It has already been said a lot, so I would just like to take up two topics briefly. I would like to thank Gertrude Brinek for her commitment to improving the implementation of measures. We have often discussed this – of course it is a difficult issue – and many things are still open and need to be improved; we are also aware of this. But I would like to thank you very much for your commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention Mr Volksanwalt Günther Herb once again, because he has dealt with a very important and important issue for me, namely the care sector. Care concerns us all sooner or later, and I believe that we are all required of each other. The People's Procuratorate keeps showing where it's headed. Of course, it is the staffing emergency and labour congestion and – in my opinion perhaps the biggest manko – the overall lack of appreciation for the care profession. I am glad that we are really very active in Upper Austria with some initiatives and that we have developed them even further in schools where health and social issues are already priorities and set up a teaching profession for care – a pilot experiment – according to Swiss model. It's not quite easy, but I think That we're on a good path. I am also very, very glad that Mr. Volksanwalt has repeatedly demonstrated the problem of herbs through his checks and has contributed to the improvement of care and old-age homes. Care is an important issue on which we are more or less well prepared by the government parties. I am sure that after the election in autumn we will be able to continue this path. – In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14597	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14619	Mr President. Minister! My dear folk lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join, of course, the very warm and extensive thanks to the divorced national attorney and to the two divorced national lawyers, but also to the detailed and well-founded preparation of the way public administration arrives and is perceived by people. This report offers a great deal of assistance to Parliament, and I would like to address the area concerned with hearing disabilities with the group of people. In Austria, 450 000 people have hearing impairments and are affected by their communication with other people; about 8,000 to 10,000 people are deaf. In order to lead an independent and self-determined life and to participate in social life, these people are dependent on sign language interpreters in very, very many areas. In 2014, a study was commissioned by the then Minister of Social Affairs to show that there are too few sign language interpreters. A sign language interpreter in Austria has 100 deaf persons to care for. In Sweden, there are twelve deaf persons who are assigned to a sign language interpreter. So we see that we cut off very, very badly in the international comparison. The low number of interpreters goes back to the few training places we have. I think that the public prosecutor's request to provide sufficient training places is the task of the federal government. The Federation is required to enable quality training for all. Austria is a country where there are very many levels of cooperation. For my district, for the Danube City, I can say that in the field of national schools a very high quality is achieved and achieved. The folk school Hammerfestweg has succeeded in enabling the teaching of deaf and hearing children under one roof, for the benefit of both groups attending this school. So there is something really outstanding going on. I think that now the Federal Government is on the move to extend its scope of action, as already stated in the study, to achieve improvements and to follow the recommendations of the Volksanwälte. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14656	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14677	Mr President. Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! I also want to finish with the team the People's Procuratorate, to thank the Volksanwälten for their good, prudent work. In this very comprehensive report, one can again see how important a functioning and good public prosecutorship is and that this is really a demonstration project. I think that this will continue in the right direction with the new Volksanwälten. – Thank you very much from me here too! The word "judicial institutions" has already fallen. Punishment is an important issue, always and again. The People's Procuratorate has also accepted this. If you read the report exactly, you know, these are the old topics that have not been there since yesterday, but that all governments have been dragging around with them for years: In the execution, the majority of them fail to overlay the judicial institutions, but the same is true of human bottlenecks. What has been criticized over and over again in recent times, and is very much in favour of all political groups, is the reform of the implementation of measures in accordance with § 21 (1). There too, the public prosecutor has expressed the opinion that it would have been a long time to improve it. But there is already a lot to be made clear, namely that, like all judicial institutions, the judicial authorities – responsible for this action – are doing very good work with Göllersdorf and Asten and their staff. – Thank you very much for this extensive and good work for all the judicial staff from our side! What we have to say is that, of course, since the last few months, we have always been crying out loud for improvements in action. This is heard by many parties, but as regards the implementation of measures, it must already be said that in September 2007 in Lower Austria the Landeskrankenhaus Gugging was concluded, where 25 places of detention for acute cases were available for the execution of measures, and in 2013 the contract for the Pavilion 23 at the Baumgartnerhöhe was no longer extended. It is very unreasonable for the parties to wake up now – especially from this side, Vienna, Baumgartner Höhe, Pavilion 23, contract no longer extended – and say that there are 25 places of action that are lost when you wake up and say: [[pointing toward SPÖ]] Puh, there must be improvements in action! In 2013, there was nothing heard of SPÖ, and in 2007 nothing was heard about the closure of the Gugging National Hospital of the ÖVP. Only the President will know well, because in 2007 it washed good money into the Lower Austrian Landeskassa. [[towards President Sobotka]] Gugging is not somewhere, but at Klosterneuburg, and this has been sold very, very expensive and very well. At that time, the finance council and today's President Sobotka were very happy. From the ÖVP side, there was zero yelling. But they knew that 25 places of action were lost. No one has been interested in it, but now everyone is here and wants to improve the implementation of measures. I have to say, however, that Göllersdorf and Asten do good work and are sufficient, and I am glad that the old Federal Government – let us say so – has not done anything in this matter with tax money, or the dissolved German government. I would also advise the future Federal Government to look carefully at whether it is absolutely necessary with very, very much money to set up a psychiatric department, a psychiatric hospital for the implementation of measures, because this tax money could be used to implement more important projects for people in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14741	Mr Karl Mahrer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14762	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear People's Lawyers! High house! Dear Seers! In three words: Independent, close to citizens and free of charge, this is our People's Procuratorate. Since the 1970s, three people's lawyers have been serving our country's people under this motto, and they have also given us parliamentarians valuable insights and feedback on the concerns and problems of people, on the abuses and on failures. We have been called here in Parliament to respond accordingly - - - thank you, Mr Jarolim, but it was a little too early. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] So we are called upon in Parliament to respond accordingly and to make improvements with good-proof measures. That's important to me – introductory. The people's lawyers, however, are not only concerned with their task of controlling public administration, but, in particular, they are also responsible for protecting human rights. As spokesperson for police affairs and as a representative, who is particularly committed to the concerns of the elderly, I have read the report on preventive human rights control very carefully. In 2018 alone, nearly 500 institutions such as old-age and nursing homes, youth homes, but also judicial institutions and police centres were controlled. In addition, 44 checks were carried out on operations, police missions, such as demonstrations, deportations, and major events. If these days sound the call for even more controls and, above all, independent controls, then I can only say that there is already in Austria. Our federal constitution guarantees the rule of law, independent justice and an independent control body, and that is the public prosecutor's office. If Mr Krisper, very much appreciated by me, in her request calls for another independent body, especially in the case of alleged police attacks, I say that there is already, in the form of independent justice, which carries out these investigations. The most recent incidents relating to police operations, ladies and gentlemen, are very serious to take and to clarify perfectly, including for the protection of the many thousands of police officers who carry out their work decently and correctly. Ladies and gentlemen! Three successful members of the People's Procuratorate, Günther Herbe, Gertrude Brinek and Peter Fichtenbauer, presented their reports at the end of their term of office today. I also know all three people's lawyers from my position as police vice-president in Vienna and therefore trust myself to note this personally: I would like to thank you very sincerely, on behalf of all those who have received support and help from you, for your commitment, for your performance and, in this case, for the heart blood you have brought into this activity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Dear Volksanwälte, I'm as good as you are: The light that shows the end of my speaking time shines. I would like to thank you once again. You have a lot for our Austria. Now I wish you luck, health, success, fulfillment and satisfaction for the next segment of life. Thank you very much and thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14835	Mr Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14857	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Volksanwalt, dear Volksanwälte! I would like to point out some of the obligations of the Austrian People's Procuratorate, which is often not mentioned, namely international activity. Many people do not know that the International Ombudsman Institute, IOI, is located in Vienna, that the Secretariat is in Vienna and Günther Kräub has held the position of the Secretary-General in recent years. For this reason, the IOI is also such an important institution, because it is there to empower people's prosecutors and similar civil society institutions in other countries – in the meantime more than 200 or exactly 200 are gathered under the umbrella of IOI – to further train them accordingly and give them advice on how they can truly fulfil their task of protecting human and civil rights as well as promoting a citizen-friendly, transparent administration. This is a very important task, which one cannot praise often enough. I would just like to mention two examples: I know the popular prosecutions in Colombia relatively well. There are these, unlike with us, also at the province level. Very often, these regional public prosecutors in Latin America are generally the only contact point that people have whose human rights are completely under the wheels. I am thinking, for example, of indigenous peoples who are being driven out and murdered because of the food hunger of the world and the reckless activities of agrogroups whose land will be stolen, which are completely outrighted. For them, these public prosecutors are really the only point of contact they have, where someone can strengthen their backs and help them to their right. But you don't have to go to Colombia at all. I am thinking only of Poland, where, due to a very problematic government policy, the rights of women, the rights of minorities are increasingly under pressure, also the rights of media, the possibility of media, are becoming more and more subject to the wheels. For many who turn to him, the popular attorney there is more or less the only lighthouse of democracy and human rights. I really hope that this institution will also have a strong future. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Thank you very much for this important work you are doing! The IOI is also – and it is very important for me to stress this – an important international player insofar as it is always the subject of the IOI conferences to enforce and implement the Sustainable Development Goals, the United Nations' sustainable development goals. There are also training courses, and the UN itself keeps looking at how well these 17 targets are implemented within the SDGs. Today, the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in July in New York, among other things, will be the SDG 16 and there will also be a side event to be held by the Austrian Embassy – the Minister of Justice is unfortunately not coming, his predecessor would have come – and that is exactly how much the area for human rights for NGOs is concerned, for Media, but also for parliaments and parliamentarians in some regions of the world is getting smaller and smaller. I am very glad that the IOI will also be represented as an institution there, so that we can also show what an important institution we have in Austria. A very short comment on another topic: The public prosecutor was generally very active in the whole question of the persecution of the National Action Plan on Human Rights, which unfortunately was no longer carried on by the ÖVP FPÖ government. I know, however, how much civil society, how many NGOs have appreciated the dialogue that has been led in the public prosecutorry on this issue. I know how much there has been efforts on your part to carry on many things where we simply do not have a concrete approach to making human rights, human rights obligations and human rights obligations of international corporations available here in Austria as well. Thank you, too, for this human rights work you have done. I think that since the Opcat mandate was transferred in 2012, the People's Prosecution has proved that it can become a very important human rights institution in this country. Thank you very much! Three of them – we have heard, they are all not retired – all good wherever the future will lead you, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14924	I should like to ask all Members to keep the level of discussion a little lower. It is often difficult for the speaker to get really heard here. Mr Moser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14948	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear People's Lawyers! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1977, the People's Prosecution has always been for reliability and for the protection of citizens' rights. At the same time, trust in the People's Procuratorate has been further enhanced in the last six years. For me personally, it was a pleasure to support the work of the People's Procuratorate for more than 25 years or to work together with the People's Procuratorate to identify and eliminate abuses. I was particularly pleased during my time as Minister of Justice, of course, that the public prosecutor's preparatory work in the field of action has led to the establishment or preparation of measures in the field of justice that go towards a modern and human-rightful execution of justice. I would like to point out to Mrs. Volksanwälter Brinek that your recommendations and your participation have led to the fact that a draft implementing law has now been finally negotiated, completed with psychiatrists, psychologists and at the same time experts, in order to ensure that someone who is either accountable or not eligible for action is also assigned properly so that, on the one hand, the treatment can be taken, on the other hand, the costs can be reduced and at the same time the safety of the population maintained. Thank you also for your further recommendations on the new criminal enforcement law or on the new criminal order. These designs are also already completed. On the one hand, this is about increasing security for judicial officers, on the other hand, about providing people with the greatest possible security and about achieving the best possible performance of tasks. It is particularly gratifying that the international reputation of the People's Procuratorate could be further expanded in recent years. It is not only the Court of Auditors who, within the scope of the Intosai, is responsible for strengthening auditing, but also the Austrian People's Procuratorate is a player to further strengthen the Ombudsmen or Volksanwälte in the sense of citizens and to enhance their rights. Not least, the People's Procuratorate is also a guardian. She's a guardian of human rights. It is in favour of ensuring the protection of human rights not only internationally but also nationally. That is why I would like to thank you once again for the long cooperation. I wish you all three, all good for the future. I can only say: Austria can be proud to adopt today three national lawyers who have done excellent achievements in the past in the sense of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e14991	Mr Friedl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15012	Mr President. Minister! Dear Mrs Volksanwältin, dear Mr Volksanwälte, a special greeting to you at this place! On the two committee days of the past few weeks, you have informed us very, very detailed about the problems, the concerns of our citizens. We've had a lot of discussion about this. You have clearly illustrated where the problems are, where the people press the shoe, and have always brought us your test reports very, very interesting and very pointed. I would like to deal briefly with the care sector today, because there are, how we have come to our ears, particularly problems – we know for a long time – concerning the care staff. People get older – we know the demographic figures – and we wish for ourselves and want best care for them all. This is currently largely due to family members, who are ultimately also those who care for their families for a very long time at home. A study by Wifo from 2018 also shows us that until 2050 – ladies and gentlemen, this year is no longer as far away as it once was – we need 80 000 additional caretakers. - 80,000, an immeasurably high number! But we don't have adequate nurses today. That is, the command of the hour is and would be – I now speak in a conjunctiv –: It is time we started today to attract the working conditions for the care staff. However, there are several measures to be taken: a decent salary; it takes working hours to reconcile work and family; and a very important factor that we may have forgotten in recent times: Appreciation and appreciation of these social professions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, it is quite important that our nursing staff have the opportunity to make adequate and good supervision, because this profession is very, very difficult. People experience very dramatic things. That's why it takes supervision for them to be able to have their psychological balance. Of course, care is largely done by women. 10 percent of the total population are involved informally in care and care – and this, of course, is free of charge. I don't need to tell you that it's an extra burden for our women to do this hard work next to job and family. This often works as well. on the career, on the current financial situation and also on the level of the pension. That is why we need a new approach to Carework, which is a dignified approach to people, but also to our care staff. The Burgenland, my home country, will go new ways in the future. Members should no longer care for their family members free of charge, but receive a salary, EUR 1 700 for full-time care. They get an education and can, after the care of their own relatives, if they have died, almost seamlessly close this gap through this training and can continue to care for. Perhaps this would be a way that could be used for the whole country. What's very important to me is: Since the introduction of the care allowance in 1993, ladies and gentlemen, this care allowance has never been increased, i.e. the real loss is 30 percent, a huge amount that is missing in the wallet for the people who care and do the inconceivables. Finally, I would like to thank the divorcing folk lawyers very much, very cordially for their commitment and for their great work and may give them the best witness at this point. – Thank you very much and very much for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15069	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15091	Mr President. High Bureau! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt Fichtenbauer! Dear Mrs. Volksanwalt Brinek! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt Herbs! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already said a lot about the content of the excellent work of the public prosecutor's office. I would like to say one thing: There was an excellent contribution last week in a mission to Ö1, in which Mrs. Dr.in Brinek explained in detail the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in which many citizens also inquired about the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office and reported to her with their concerns. Do you know what the beautiful thing was? – That Mrs. Dr.in Brinek also spoke for her colleagues and appreciated her work. A great team – and this is also reflected in the excellent work of the People's Procuratorate. Much has already been said about the subject areas. I too would like to thank you very much. I know what important work is They have performed and will continue to do so. I thank you for the good cooperation, because we also had one case or another in the past and have worked on certain issues together. I also wish the future lawyers all the best. Mr Amon and the other colleagues: Everything, good for your work! I would like to wish you all the right on your further life course. Thank you for your commitment to our Republic and institutions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15133	At the end of the debate, the Volksanwälte spoke. Thank you very much. These are their last speeches in the National Council today after a long and very successful operation. I can start with Mr. Volksanwalt Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15157	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Blessed Dr. Kreisky said: You don't even know how much praise I can bear. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jarolim.]] – Using this historical quote, I am allowed to speak on behalf of my person and probably my two colleagues. I can say at all that the convenience that the structure of work presented in this college has been a historically valuable experience for me, which has also been expressed in a positive contribution to the needs of the legislator, the Constitutional legislator of the public prosecutor's office. I should like to remind you that Parliament, the National Council, has two auxiliary bodies: One is the Court of Auditors, the second auxiliary body is to show the public prosecutor's office with the task of showing maladministration of the administration and inaccuracies in the treatment of people in relation to human rights. Mr Dönmez spoke very, very warm-heartedly. I remember our first meeting in the Federal Council when he heard another political group and he was spontaneously willing to express the extension of the public prosecutor's competence in the field of examination, which led to an application at the time. So I repeat: The concern as a long-term lighthouse project, which the National Council should pursue, is to bring about the equivalence of the public prosecutor's audit competence with that of the Court of Auditors to carry it out by law. The proposal has already been submitted today. Referring to the detailed presentation of the public prosecutor's activity, I should like to refer to the report that this report would not be possible without the very high-quality labour intensity and effort of the people working in the public prosecutor's office. Thankfully, you have also directed your appreciation to the employees and officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to take note of this recognition with thanks and pass it on as far as the officials are not present today. In the absence of lighthouse projects, which, according to their nature, cannot be handled in a period of time, because the process of knowledge clearly lasts longer, I may refer to the need for the persecution of improvement in legal terms to the National Council for the matters I have to answer. Number one: We have repeatedly referred to the situation of chronically ill children in the school system. It was referred to the symposium we had in the National Council. It was referred to another event, and two weeks ago we had another event in the public prosecutor's office. We have thousands of thousands of children with diabetes. Thank God the National Council has taken into account the proposals of the People's Procuratorate and has presented a possible error in the treatment by teachers as a case of official liability and regulated by law, so that the primary fear of helping a child had to be avoided in principle. But it's still a lot to do. The chronically ill child in school – and we speak of thousands, and no one knows whether your child, the child of your sister, your brother, your daughter, will not also be such a child with needs in school – needs another legal allowance that the National Council needs to develop. As a far-off destination, I know – and I don't know a better model – that a responsible person, a woman or a man with distinct medical knowledge must be present per school. The English call the school-Nurses system. Secondly, compulsory insurance for the natural disaster – a long-distance target that is gaining momentum every day in Austria. There are currently floods in Tyrol. According to the report of 6:00 a.m., the level of the Inn rose to more than 6 meters. In Schwaz, civil protection alarm was triggered. These intense rainfalls push from the west to Austria. Thus, we will again have a so-called centenary flood in Tyrol, i.e. a quantity and quantity which, according to statistical calculation, only occur every hundred years. Let us forget whether the statistics are correct or not: That means that we will have a large number of victims. The current state of responsibility of the heads of state with disaster fund et cetera is unsatisfying. Look into the neighborhood, look into Switzerland, look for Belgium: This will be dealt with at a private, insurance level, which would also lead to the discharge of the budgets in the countries. So: The solution, the suitable solution for a mandatory insurance for the natural disaster, is also a lighthouse project that I can leave behind. To sum up, I would like to thank the National Council for having worked as a collegial body for the needs of the National Council. The Public Procuratorate gives thanks to all the existing levels of attention that have been given to the activities of the Public Procuratorate. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15234	I can ask Mrs. Volksanwalt Brinek for her word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15255	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Peter! Dear Günther! I can remind you briefly that in the public prosecutor's office, as the law wants, we have done our work in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Business Distribution, and have thus followed our respective topics and the associated challenges – work and examination. For my responsibility, I can say that I was responsible for the work in the field of justice, which has already been quoted several times, for the execution of sanctions, for the execution of measures, for the actions of the courts, for their fairness and hopefully indifference, in other words their frenzy of execution, and that there was a lot of discussion, discussion, discussion, as a problem, but also a lot of content being passed on. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice, except Moser, former President of the Court of Auditors. We, in other words, the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate, have also held a cooperative event with international participation after your time. But now you have been referred to as Minister of Justice, and it is quite Also – as has been done – my persistent commitment to our persistent pressure that we have continued to take significant steps in the area of enforcement law. It has to go there towards forensic therapeutic centers and of course it must not remain in the door shield exchange – see Göllersdorf – so that people are appropriately accommodated risk- and need-based, as was originally the case before Broda: strong in the hospital system, and then – with the added aspect of safety – the question of safety conservation needs to be considered. I know that as a model example of accommodation, we must not overstep as an overstepping, otherwise the quality will also suffer there. It is about people – employees – who take care of the people in Göllersdorf, who continue to do their good work there. Yeah, it's wonderful. Thank you. Only the circumstances under which people live there, and the circumstances under which people have to work there, are absolutely worthy of improvement. It is good for our modern and, if you want to do so, it is good enough to take care of the weakest and in the short term, because the dignity of the people – including those people who are accommodated there – is untouchable. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Justice is not in the hall right now. I put the projects out of justice, out of the execution and out of the execution of measures to his heart. It can be continued in time without spending a lot of money and worked on the final form of these laws and the necessary steps. It is important that the goal is resocialisation, and the improvement of technical equipment is a step towards that – but also investment in further education, in prevention, in terms of burn-out and other things. The staff in the area is highly required. The rooms need to be better equipped and the stays there essentially as short as possible. We have dealt with a number of problems in the financial administration in the public prosecutor's office, including in my jurisdiction. I am glad that it was no longer and is because I can generally say: The administration has become better in the years when I have been looking at the work and overviewing it, has become more modern, has become more modern, and at the same time I have to say in the course of digitization of bureaucracy and new media: This must not mean that people have different speeds in their access to bureaucracy, administration, and that certain groups, especially certain age groups, are depended on as they say so beautifully. We must not progress too fast with digitalization, with e-government, because this means that some people can then get too short and achieve their quality in the administration only at a different price. On the subject of accessibility and disabled people or people with disabilities, I can say that we have been committed to their natural, independent, autonomous access to educational institutions, cultural institutions, museums, offices and authorities. There must be access to the disabled, and there must be no deterioration of people living with disabilities. I should also like to say this in connection with audit work at local and regional level. This concerned – as far as my work is concerned – essentially construction, spatial planning, land use, street laws, rural life. The alarm signs from my perspective are the superfluous soil consumption. We are world champions in the cultivation and sealing of land. This has a political impact on agriculture, but also on regional policy. Da_te You should take action. But this also means challenges for the architects, for builders: How can construction, which is little surface-removing, look out? The move to the cities there means after-densification, i.e. green spaces are further built. All these are challenges relating to the administration, which affects all of you not only as legislators at federal level, but also with regard to your anchorage at home in the municipalities and in the countries. I'm doing what you've done to the superfluous degree: I would like to thank the employees of the house, and especially those from my business area, which you do not see at first sight. Many people do not work in the test area, but in the administration. It also has to work well and work highly motivated so that in the end good work comes out. I have done my work with the principle that it is most important to like people. To like people, that is to say, to put up with patience, to complete a test procedure that seems to be going without hope, with a solution. To like people means to tell them that there is also a size in the compromise, as the Israeli poet Amos Oz says, and that also means to close one thing and never let people go without perspective, for example, from a speech day. I can tell you that I have met this country, the people, their hearts and their concerns, and I can tell you that I have conducted 7 110 personal conversations – each for more than 20 minutes, recorded and logged. I know how Austria ticks, I know how Austria's heart beats. I have experienced the speech on 920 personally carried out. I would like to draw attention to this opportunity for future lawyers to come directly into contact with people, not to underestimate it. That is very important to me. It is very important to thank you once again: I thank you for your trust. I thank you from here for the cooperation with the ORF and the opportunity – I hope – to come into contact with people through the mission “Citizen Advocate”, discuss cases there, avoid other mistakes in the future and work well for this country in this way. I personally close a book, the book of the People's Procuratorate, and I am pleased to be able to publish another book in life and to stay spiritually and otherwise in close contact with you, at the latest via the television broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15334	As the last popular attorney, Dr. Herb is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15356	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank you several times, especially all the political groups for the reform of the Home Victim Pension Act. This home-sacrifice is a very big personal concern to me; and it has also succeeded in making it clear in consensus, by agreement and by unanimity, that even those affected and victims who have been abused in hospitals or who have been abused in private homes have the possibility to apply for a pension. Some improvements have also been achieved for people with disabilities. I would also like to pay tribute to the staff and material expenditure for the General Secretariat of the International Ombudsman Institute, which was made and determined year after year Thank you, too, in the future. With a really low budget, it is possible to host and manage this global roof organisation here in Vienna. I can tell you: The international reputation and appreciation for this activity is immense, that is really very, very pleasing and a real sign for the Republic of Austria. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, I would also like to thank the employees of the People's Procuratorate very much. They are really with competence, passion and commitment in the matter. Competence, commitment and passion – this also applies to the team of the ORF, the editorial team of the mission “Bürgeranwalt”. That's a real win-win situation. The ORF is pleased with high market shares, high number of observers and can also very well represent the public order; and for the public prosecutors, this broadcast is so important as regards awareness – and admittedly: it will also have a certain pressure on authorities, on administration, on politics developed if not as quickly as desired. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, a special thanks goes to citizens for the trust they receive from the public prosecutors, for their recognition and appreciation – for many decades now. And I, ladies and gentlemen, personally would like to thank the National Council for allowing me to work as a public prosecutor for six years. I would like to see the new College from 1. July's best success and wish you all the best. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15407	Mr. Volksanwälte! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! I would like to thank you: I thank you very much for your valuable work. In this debate, no one has made any mention and is therefore closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Public Prosecutors to take note of this report III-240 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Einwallner, Mr Schimanek, Mr Krisper, Mr Noll, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 78) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, Mr Krisper, Mr Zinggl, Mr Andriessen, on the extension of the public prosecutor's audit competence. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr.in Krisper, colleagues, on ‘Independent investigative body in cases of alleged police violence’. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to another motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr.in Krisper, colleagues, on "Special powers in the public prosecutor's office in cases of alleged police force". I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:08:21]] 6. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Jörg Leichtfried, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (786/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15504	So we get to the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate in a moment. I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Jörg Leichtfrieddas word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15535	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! We now have a phase behind us, as one sees the history of the National Council, in which, if one wishes to express it, the mutual understanding between government and Parliament was not the best. If you like to express it a little more clearly, you can already say that a certain degree of superiority, aggressiveness and pride in the appearance of the members of the government was recognizable. This was particularly possible – and I think we should all go within ourselves – when this kind of dealing with the National Council was approved by the representatives of the former government majority. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was already in your responsibility that the National Council let it deal with it in this way – and not in any other way, as a more self-confident Parliament would have called for. It was your responsibility. It must also be said that this prepotence in the event not only covered the debates in plenary. No, it was also noticeable in dealing with other parliamentary rights, in particular in the exercise of Parliament's right of interference. We have come to the situation that Members of Parliament's requests by members of the government have been answered briefly and not in the light of the truth. [[Abg. Jarolim: Obstinate, obnoxious!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! That was also the reason why we and others in this House believe that it will be necessary for the future to give this Parliament and the Members who put these questions more opportunities to deal with such a procedure. It can't be that a future government – whichever will be sitting here – is as blatant about requests as it has done, ladies and gentlemen. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] We therefore believe that, at the request of the five requesting Members, it is in future necessary to call upon the constitutionality of these responses of the Constitutional Court to decide, in the end, whether the replying ministers have acted correctly. If you are in favour of a strong Parliament if you advocate self-confident parliamentaryism, please agree with us on this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15575	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rosenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15602	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Question Time, i.e. the right to interact, is, of course, an indispensable right in parliamentarianism; it is regulated in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Mr Leichtfried, you complain about the quality of the answers, perhaps also about the culture of dealing with each other and the responsibility for delivering answers. I have considered the number of unanswered requests in the last legislative period: 52 of them, 25 of them by Mr Rendi-Wagner. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Scherak: That's not an argument!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I already know that the deadline for reply was outside the legislative period, but it is about the culture of responses and co-operation – that is what I would like to say at this point. Sebastian Kurz, then Minister and later Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. The last request was answered on December 7, 2017. The situation in today's world and in the areas for which we are legally responsible is a very complex one, and therefore execution is a very complex one. This is reflected in the number of requests; since the beginning of this legislative period there have been 3,725. I just mention one example that you mentioned in your request regarding Lipizzaner present to the head of state of Abu Dhabi. There is the question of whether this Lipizzan had a patriot or a patriot and whether one has obtained his or her consent that the horse can be made available as a state gift. [[Abg. Lightness: Yes, but that's essential! Imagine you were this godfather and the horse is gone at once!]] This is an indication that the questions are also an element of political agitation. – Political debates, which are already happening today, should not be torn before the courts, but rather the tendency goes in the other direction, namely that we regulate it ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the sense of a strong parliamentaryism, it would be appropriate for this to be pronounced in the presidential conference – not with the guidance of the Constitutional Court, which then needs the Constitutional Court itself again in order to interpret it in the individual cases. Trust It is therefore the President-in-Office of the Council that it will regulate these matters more unbureaucratically than it would be by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15668	The next item is the speech by Mr Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15692	Madam President. High house! The speech of my previous speaker has seamlessly given rise to the increase in the replies of the ministers. I've never seen anyone down the house like that before. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Finally, you should be aware of the fact that this is against us by Members and that nothing has been lost in politics in the past 17 months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I find it almost shameless to give such a speech from here. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is an indescribable affront to Parliament, which actually has the sovereignty over the control of the ministers, if one gets a statement of reasons in which nothing can be read and is still written: Tastes! This is inconceivable: this superiority, which is torn down here; this dissent, which is constantly being sought; this confrontation, which is constantly being sought; this elimination; this abject neglect of all parliamentary and democratic rules of the game. [[Abg. Strasser: Just look at Wiener Neustadt!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] This begins with the ex-Bundeskanzler, who does not want this House – this he shows physically by absence – who did not want to come to Parliament, who punished Parliament with contempt. This has continued in the reply of the Federal Ministers, who then verbally expressed this contempt. [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] This high Ross you're up to is also the reason for the new elections because you haven't deviated from your arrogance because you're using this republic for your power games because you're no longer ready to comply with the democratic rules. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I consider the previous speech and the reply of the Minister's questions to be a psychogram of the EIA and its present state, that is to say, lifted and despising democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] You should think hard about whether you can keep this up for a long time. I think the proposal is urgently necessary because you are unable to ensure order in your own ranks. I remember President Khol: At that time, twice requests were answered in such a way that Khol then wrote to the ministers that it was not worthy of this House to receive such answers on correct requests. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's what the Sobotka should do!]] [[Abg. Wöinger: Sobotka has also written!]] You should take an example of this if Turquoise goes so far as to deny it to your own Parliament and this President is not able to take care of it, because he should have intervened for a long time that these responses to the question cease. [[Abg. Wöger: Has he!]] Therefore, this request is fully justified and should be supported because it is urgently necessary for the self-understanding and also for the self-confidence of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15827	The next item is the speech by Mr Alfred Noll. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have been reported to me and your group has one more minute, so if you want, I will set it up for you. [[Abg. Noll: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Then I come! Then I'll come! Then I'll come! Then I'll come! Then I'll come!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15863	I'm still talking. [[Abg. Jarolim: I ask for appropriate clarity!]] I can of course only agree with what Mr Wittmann said. Whoever believes that this is a party-political matter, is really sitting on the wrong steamer. It is a question of parliamentary sovereignty, as is the case with the ministerial anchorage as a minority law. The last 18 months have shown – and I have also done so in my own publication – that: Our government is not willing to give Parliament what Parliament has to do with information, information and transparency. I believe that we could take an example in this matter in the practice of the German Bundestag. This has two main results, as you can see in the comparative legal overview: First of all, the answers become more knowledgeable and informed, and second – and this is almost more important – the number of requests is reduced because you know that what is important is then answered. Whoever has any interest in parliamentary sovereignty and control rights will follow that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15902	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 786/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15931	I announce that the motion for a deadline has been withdrawn by Members Muchich, ladies and gentlemen on Amendment No 324/A and that there is therefore a lack of a vote on it. [[17:20:57]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e15955	We shall now proceed to the vote on the time-limits for the sitting. First, we come to the vote on the request by Mrs Dr.in Griss, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 310/A by Mrs Dr.in Griss, colleagues on ‘a Federal Constitutional Act supplementing the Federal Constitutional Act with provisions on a non-dispute state attorney’, to set a deadline until 1 July 2019. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request for a deadline to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request of Members of the Muchitsch, colleagues, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the request 576/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues in relation to “a federal law amending the Father's Carenz Act and the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984” until 13. to be set up June 2019. If you agree to this request for a deadline, I would ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Lightenfried, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on the motion for a resolution 18/A by Mr Mag. Arbitrators, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is so unanimously accepted. We shall vote on the request of Members of the European Parliament to report to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 274/A by Mr Mag. Arbitrators, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the employee law and other laws, a period of until 13. ==References== Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the vote on the request made by Members Muchitsch, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs for a period of up to 1 January each. To report on the following applications: Question No 629/A by Mr Vogl, Members of the European Parliament on the employment law. Who is in favour of this deadline request? – This is the minority. Rejected. Question No 338/A by Mr Mag. Arbitrators, colleagues and colleagues concerning “a federal law that amends the Parent Protection Act 1979”. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This deadline is adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by Mr Dr. Noll, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 852/A by Mr Dr. Noll, colleagues on ‘A Federal Constitutional Law on the Protection of Drinking Water from Privatization’. to sit on July. If you vote for this deadline, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[17:24:54]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-12-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00080_d8e16060	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 859/A to 911/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 5:25 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
