ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e5960	I should like to declare that the sitting is open, and I would like to welcome the honourable Members very warmly and ask them to take their place. I can also welcome our spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the television screens. The official protocols of the 80th and 81th protocols. Meeting of 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. June 2019 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of this House are reported today. Johanna Jachs, David Lasarund Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M. [[09:05:35]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e5999	The announcements from the Federal Election Authority have been received that representatives Werner Amon, MBA, Michael Bernhard, Claudia Gamon, MSc (WU), Mag. Roman Haider, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Mag. Andreas Schieder and Dr. Angelikack have renounced their mandates. The mandate of Mr Claudia Gamon, MSc (WU) was elected by Mr Michael Bernhardzuge, and she was replaced by Mrs Mag. Doris Hager-Hammerle appointed to the National Council. Instead of Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Mr. Alois Kainz, instead of Deputies Werner Amon, MBAFrau Ing. Daniela List, instead of Deputies Mag. Andreas SchiederDr. Christoph Matznetter, instead of Deputies Dr. Angelika WinzigHerr Laurenz Pöttinger and instead of Deputies Mag. Roman HaiderWomen Sandra Wohlschlager appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I can do the fishing. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I can ask the author, Mr Preiner, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6131	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6165	I would like to thank you for the removal of the vow and wish you a lot of Fortune during the remainder of this legislative period, a lot of pleasure in parliamentary work. A few are already experienced mandates and can immediately rely on their experience. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] – May I seek attention? – Otherwise, we will leave time. [[09:08:33]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6198	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Chancellor Dr. Brigitte Bierlein is the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. ==References== I may announce that, as usual, the ORF transfers online from 9.05 a.m. to 1 p.m. on ORF 2, then to ORF III and from 7.15 p.m. on the TV library. A photographer on behalf of the Parliamentary Directorate is also represented again. [[09:09:03]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6236	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Sustainable budget policy benefits all citizens” Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He knows he has 10 minutes of speaking time at his disposal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6264	Good morning! Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! “Sustainable budgetary policy benefits all citizens” – this is the theme of the current hour – and it is therefore important that Austria is on a good course, both economically and fiscally. We want to stay on the desired course in the direction of a balanced budget in 2019. That means we don't want to spend more than we take. We are acting in this way, as the citizens themselves do for the most part: with caution and with far-sightedness, we are dealing with our own money and do not make new debts. We must not leave this road, we must maintain this course, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The government with German Chancellor Kurz and Finance Minister Löger has given this course in the sense of stability and the further development of our country, and the transitional government is rightly holding to this course. Minister of Finance Eduard Müller clearly stated at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets that a slight budget surplus in 2019 is also his goal, and he does not want to leave this course in any case at all during the time when he is responsible – and we want to actively support it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The development in the first five months of this year was a good one, and the budgetary outlook is also currently a small plus. That's the first good news I can deliver today. I also have a second: Austria has also done its homework with the Federal Government under Chancellor Kurz. In April of this year, its stability programme and its National Reform Programme were transmitted to the EU. At the same time, the European Commission assessed both programmes and on 5 July. This year's judgment took place on June. In short, this is: Austria fully fulfils EU fiscal rules 2019 and 2020. This is the case for the first time, my Ladies and gentlemen – this is the second good news. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder:... stolen!]] If, in the next few days, we are also setting up the tax reform together, which will relieve many small incomes and will bring further impetus to them, then this part, which contributes to the stability programme, will also be fulfilled, and we will be able to maintain our budget rate even more securely. Ladies and gentlemen, we can therefore hold: The good economy, the Austrian economic engine, the stable labour market – and unemployment again fell by 4.9% in June – is the right measure, all of which together are the factors that keep Austria on the track of both budgetary and economic success. That is why I would also like to thank all those who contribute to this course, especially the entrepreneurs, workers and those who ensure that the right measures are implemented – thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we look at our country now, at our Austria, then we see: It looks really good. We have experienced good payroll accounts, and these go directly into purchasing power. So domestic consumption is intact. Fortunately – and this is really gratifying – export has also attracted again and we have increasing export numbers. For the next year, we have the goal of spreading the 160-billion-euro-export limit. As Austrians, we can also be a little proud of this because the products and services made in Austria are in demand all over the world. If we make 6 of 10 euros abroad, this is due to the excellent quality of the products of our home country. In order for this to continue, it is also necessary to support the 60 000 exporting companies with the right measures so that employees can continue to enjoy employment and be successful together. Austria is a very attractive economic and work location. The introduced flexible working time models and our high location quality also ensure that many new businesses want to come to Austria. Our actions are therefore correct, they have been successful. We also see this by another example, namely on the family bonus. I was on the weekend when a father called me and told me that he really likes this family bonus because he has several children and he now stays 243 euros net more per month. This money benefits his family and his children. That is the first measure he really feels in the pocket of money he meant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we look at the economy – the Wifo forecast signals us 1.7 percent – we see that we are still significantly above the EU average. On the contrary, we must not rest on this: We must continue to tax rather than tax and therefore continue to reduce the tax burden. The reduction of additional wage costs will have to be one of the main impulses of the next Federal Government, because impulses are simply better than regulations and regulations. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are now bringing to the feet a project of the Federal Government of Chancellors, namely the first part of the tax reform, which will relieve those most in need of it: firstly, the beneficiaries of lower incomes with a reduction in the social security contribution and, secondly, the small entrepreneurs of the increase in the flat-rate limits from 30 000 to 35 000 euros, with new possibilities for SMEs to pause. [[Abg. Kickl:... after a liberal impulse!]] If we say and write 37 years now adapt the limit for the small economic goods – we double them from 400 to 800 euros – then on the one hand we relieve financial and, on the other hand, of unnecessary bureaucracy. The burden is not burdened and remains the commandment of the hour, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They allow me, as I first referred to the economic situation, another important comment to this effect: A brake on our economy is the labour shortage, which has become the main challenge for companies in our country in the meantime. Let us see that we create new jobs with innovation and without bureaucracy and do not prevent this by overregulating and building up obstacles! There is an interesting interview by Wolfgang Hesoun in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” last weekend, and I would like to quote a small section of it literally. He says: “Digitalization is a change that cannot be solved with regulations of preservation. I am generally of the opinion that one should at some point consider whether all those measures developed in the past to protect employees still fulfil their meaning in today's reality. Today's framework conditions are often no longer illustrated, and the trade union has not sufficiently developed here. The protection of the employees is very important to me, but the global downfall around the flexibility of working time was not understandable to me.” So, ladies and gentlemen, the clear message is: Courage for new ways, no new obstacles and bans, and especially careful handling of the money of citizens! The Minister of Finance has therefore also issued a clear warning: no unthinked last-minute decisions! I can also report to you after many conversations: This is what citizens see as it is, they do not want rapid shots to be fired, which cost a lot of money and which they have to pay for themselves again. It is therefore necessary that we continue the path of structural reforms, and it is therefore also gratifying that today ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS will make a request for a debt brake in the Constitution and that there is the necessary two-thirds majority. The debt brake in the Constitution is a very important measure, which will ensure that legislation is strengthened to ensure that there is no new debt. It will be our companion on the way to tax reduction, and it is also a strong signal from Austria to the rating agencies – this is also very important. I hope that the SPÖ will be involved in this important decision, because if you are not present, it can only be explained by the fact that debt making is in your programme. But we don't want that and the Austrians don't want it either. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak on his work.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can sum up: no new debt, a balanced budget, no new taxes and the right reforms. Our budgetary policy benefits citizens, we stand by the People's Party and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6359	The Federal Minister for Finance has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6381	, entrusted with the management of the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport: Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! A budget is the balance of decisions of the past and expectations of the future. Finding and maintaining this balance on all levels is a balancing act. – That was still the easy exercise, because with these words I also started my first speech here – at the time, however, I do not know how narrow the grat will be for this balance act. A federal budget at least balanced over the economic cycle, in which the state no longer spends than it takes, and thus does not operate at the expense of the subsequent generations, is, I believe, also what one might call inconvenient, but at least in general, sustainable. A little more technically formulated, I would call fiscal sustainability a long-term sustainability of the public budget. And this sustainability needs to be able to make future developments and, above all, the consequences of these future developments, be it economic dynamics such as globalisation or digitization, whether it be social developments such as urbanisation or our demographic structure or environmental and climate developments, proactive and not only reactive. In my view, the fiscal sustainability targets are very clearly defined over a wide range of areas: the public deficit balances over the economic cycle, the debt level with the clear target of 60 percent of GDP, a tax rate to approach the 40 percent in the medium term, and, if you want to, the reform programme – we discussed it last week in the Budget Committee – which addresses the challenges of the future: Pensions, health, innovative investments, environment and climate. How does the way lead to these goals? – The way there – I believe, in the current situation, in this particular political phase in our country – really leads over two elements that seem very simple at first sight: firstly, a strict budget implementation in daily administrative acts and second, on the sense of responsibility and attention in the decision-making of new measures. Once the addressee is the executive, the execution, once the addressee is the legislative, if you want to, the politics. The instrument on this path is the budget, the budget with a federal financial law, with a federal financial framework law, i.e. decided here in this House, in concrete figures, shed targets, but also the stability programme at European level. All that, this budget with its different facets, is, if you want so, your, our navigation instrument on this way, and the budget fulfills in this expression as Navi various functions. It is, of course, first of all an instrument of a government in carrying out the tasks – that is the political function of a budget. Secondly, the budget is also expressed, particularly in these days very noticeable, in the sharing of power in a parliamentary system, as it allows for the control of executives by the legislative. And thirdly, the budget of planning and carrying out state activities by the administration, thus has a financial planning and organisational function if you wish. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! We are, and indeed this is always emphasized in all the speeches, in all the media, no doubt in a particular political phase in our country, in a particular phase in which certain dynamics have also arisen, in which, for example, the political design function mentioned earlier by me has shifted away from the government to the political parties of this House. The valorization of the care allowance, an issue from the Financial Committee, the tax reform which I am discussing today by my previous speaker, Mr Haubner, are two measures in the light of this development, this political design claim of Parliament. Allow me to draw attention to the role of the budget in this context, especially in this example – even in the knowledge, so that perhaps it may also be polarized, but perhaps also in this regard. While the tax reform was announced in one of our Navi instruments, in the stability programme at European level, the valorization of the care allowance was not priced. But the tax reform is only a measure and part of a package that has been priced, and therefore it can also be seen at European level in the context of a digitalisation package, a fraud prevention package and an administrative modernisation package. I also see it as my task to point out this as a finance minister in the sense of a budget watchman. However, this responsibility is not valuable. I know it'll be an ascribe soon. I try to analyze this responsibility for the best of my knowledge and conscience, to perceive descriptively, describing in the sense of what has just been fed into the various budget instruments and what is not. But what I can repeat once again is the offer from my first speech in this House, which is the following: with the expertise of the Federal Ministry of Finance, we analyse the measures that are now under discussion in a quick impact analysis and follow-up cost assessment, in order to provide you with appropriate figures as a valid decision-making basis, so that you can make decisions transparent and comprehensible. The political assessment of the consequences and consequences of these figures, the political assessment lies in your hand, the High House. We as Executive can help you to have as good and valid decision-making bases as possible. I believe that the House, just this analysis and only this support, will enable you to carry out the second, from my point of view perhaps even central, function of the budget, namely the control of executives by the legislative. For this, I do not have to tell you, I know it more from the other side, the administration, where one may sometimes be offended about it, in the execution of many instruments, from the monthly budget control to the use of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to address a measure because it has been referred to by Mr Haubner today: a debt brake. However, a debt brake is not a major new invention, it exists in many countries, there are, as we know, also in the Austrian Federal Budget Act with the so-called rule limit for the structural deficit, according to which, however, the budget of the federal government must in principle be compensated for in accordance with the law of the European Union; it has the concrete expression in the 0.35 percent. That means we have a debt brake. They may judge how it is used. I can perhaps give you two points from the execution, not even here appreciating, just describing: Since the structural deficit is not quite complex in the assessment and finally it is always ex postable, for us in the Ministry of Finance it is only a limited ongoing management instrument. And since of course it only includes the covenant, it is if you want to do so, only one side of the medal. A debt brake can be a key strategic regulatory and control instrument through the executive. As always, you decide whether to view a debt brake as a growth brake or, as others may do, as a contribution to generation justice, it is and it must be your instrument, High House, which allows you the ongoing, accompanying control of this instrument budget. [[Abg. Kickl: There is also a time budget!]] The third function of the budget I have referred to is the financial organisational function, i.e. the regulatory function for the implementation, for the executive, for the administration. There the budget gives the framework, but also the rules of the game – that is, the how much and the like – for the administration. Allow me to say, not to be valued, but simply to reflect numbers, even here, this strict budget execution, if you look at the naked figures – even in the knowledge of various causes of these developments – already shows foreseeable successes. Looking back to 2018, with a net financial balance of minus 1.1 billion euros compared to estimated minus 2.2 billion euros and a share of 0.6 billion euros in expenditure, I think that this strict budget execution also has a corresponding share in this development. For this year – the target you have decided with the Federal Finance Act – I hope and count on the support of my collaborators. I think we all know that the old principle, that the best source of revenue of a state is still its economy, is still valid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because only with this economy can it succeed to achieve the already mentioned objective of the balanced budget for 2019 and, I believe, the ambitious goal of a federal budget, which has been balanced for the first time since 1954. This is not a fetish, it is not a self-interest, but, from my point of view, it would be the promised promise with which the fears of the older generation can be scattered and the expectations of our children fulfilled. For this I can ask you for your support and appeal to you, with passion, with a sense of responsibility and, above all, with attention in the coming weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6436	Thank you. I can warmly welcome the students of the high school of the Heart Jesu Missionaries to us in the High House. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The speaking time for all Members is now fixed 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! A sustainable budget policy is the foundation for a positive development of our country. We have worked a lot, good and sustainable over the last one and a half years. We have ended the debt policy of the past decades and have been able to relieve people visibly and honestly – and I mean, without new debts. The sound financial policy has enabled the strict budget implementation, surpluses and debt reduction to be achieved. As the Federal Minister has just said, Austria will achieve a surplus for the first time in 2019 and thus lay the foundation for a fair generation agreement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The citizens feel that Austria is moving in the right direction. I am sure they will also choose this course in autumn. We want to address the major issues of the future and continue our path. The people in Austria need work from which they can live, and good education and training for future challenges. Our capital in Austria is in innovative minds of the country, in the know-how. The labour market is developing steadily. More and more people are in a job relationship, and many workers have more money in the wallets – for example through the family bonus Plus or the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. The discharge, which will come from 1.1.2020 on account of the declining social security contributions for small and medium-sized earners, for half a million small entrepreneurs and for farmers, will also have its effect. We also want to ensure that we can age in dignity. That is why, together with the liberals, we raise the minimum pension. Age poverty needs to be avoided, and since it is already included in the budget, it also goes without new debts. The care is one of the major challenges of the coming years. Our care concept sets out the key points of the necessary reform. In order for this reform to succeed, we need a solid household, not a ho-ruck application to distribute money, because it is not our own. Applications for economic growth and for the promotion of unemployment are not in the sense of the Austrians. Climate protection is one of the most pressing issues. We need to take climate-friendly measures, for us and for our nature. The package and its measures that are now being put in place are all budget-neutral. In particular, the queues for renewable energy sources are to be reduced and the continuation of really well-accepted actions such as “pure from oil”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together with Sebastian Kurz, Elli Köstinger presented the climate protection programme of the ÖVP, which shows how climate policy can be lived. For the future: Climate protection will cost us a little bit, and in order for us to be able to act with reason and far-sighted, we must pursue a sustainable budget policy, because today's constituencies are the old loads of tomorrow, and I do not think that we all need each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP shapes and lives the eco-social market economy. The state objectives of economic location and climate protection are in no conflict, there is a need for a balance. We have a sense of responsibility for our environment in Austria, and we always prove it. We are here in the top of the countries. In order to strengthen this position, it still needs innovation and a policy that promotes it and allows for a positive development through sustainable budgets. Creating framework conditions so that something can succeed, that is our task. So that we can continue to create honest discharges for our people, we want to continue the change that we have begun. My colleague, Mr Haubner, and also Mr Bundesminister, have already said this: We also noted in the previous government programme that a constitutional debt brake should support the commitment to reduce the government debt ratio. The foundation for a sustainable budget policy, which benefits all of us, stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6543	Mr Leichtfried has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6564	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! The good news, and this, Mr President, should also be good news for you as President of this House: I can calm you, ladies and gentlemen: This Parliament is working and it is working hard in these months! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although it may have preferred to turn this House back, lay down its mandate, rather not work and stay in the summer freshness instead – I can imagine many people will be happy if this summer freshness lasts as long as possible – this Parliament is working, ladies and gentlemen, and it is working very productively! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] The ÖVP is now coming – I do not know how much attempt this is, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth – with an attempt to stop the work of this Parliament. They call it debt brakes, first it was something else. Do you know what that is? – The real reason for all these ambitions you now have is that you don’t want to understand that you’ve been overcoming this house for the first time in 30 years, and you don’t accept that. You from the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, are beautiful democrats to me! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Completely next door!]] I wonder what kind of relationship you have with parliamentary democracy. How does it feel when constitutional lawyers say that what you propose is contrary to the democratic principle? What is this feeling about sitting in a Parliament that is trying to prevent work, ladies and gentlemen? In contrast to the ÖVP, everyone else wants to work in here, and this should be held in this House once again! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] That is why social democracy has now launched many initiatives, many initiatives that are sustainable and which are quite different from what the EDP understands as sustainability. What to understand You're under sustainability? – Sustainability means for you: On the one hand save where to help, and on the other hand throw money out where there is already enough money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] How can it be understood, ladies and gentlemen, that with a finger sniffing, a tax sugar of 120 million euros will be distributed to the hoteliers and you will be excited that the care money will be valorized? Explain this to me! Is that sustainable? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or how can it be understood that one produces 1.5 billion euros of tax sugar for the large industry in corporate tax? Explain this to me! Is that sustainable? – No, that’s ÖVP clientele policy! With this request, one must also say, FPÖ is going back to the old track, namely to hop when the ÖVP is sniffing. That is what you are doing with this support, with this request, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, sustainable budgetary policies look different, which is a policy of interconnectedness that ensures that no one is left behind. This is socially democraticly sustainable policy. We do not leave our pensioners alone, we do not leave the people who suffer the blows of fate alone, we do not leave the single parents alone. Examples of what has been successful in these few weeks are fair pensions, full consideration of the karenz period – that means closing the wage shears between men and women by 3 percent; that is sustainable policy – the papal month, the payment of compensation, the smoke-free gastronomy, the prohibition of water privatisation. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] What did Mr Strache say in Ibiza? – Zack, Zack, Zack, and we're selling the water! – Nothing more with sack, sack, sack, that is now forbidden, ladies and gentlemen. These are just a few examples of what social democracy is all about: not a policy for millionaires, but a policy for the millions who need our support, not a policy for the rich, but a policy for everyone in this country. This is sustainable policy and not what you are doing here, ladies and gentlemen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6669	Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6701	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Current hour of the ÖVP: “Sustainable budget policies benefit all citizens”. – There is nothing to be said about our side. I would have been very pleased if I could have been a free budget speaker of a federal government, who was able to generate a budget surplus for the first time after 65 years. For the first time in 65 years, the tax money that Austrians are working hard on is handled as responsibly as they expect it to be, because it is spent less than ingested. Over the last 30 years alone, debt has increased by EUR 200 billion, which is around EUR 7 billion annually. Mr Leichtfried, many SPÖ finance ministers were also responsible for the fact that this debt was accumulated and that Austrians will have to pay these debts in the future. [[Abg. Krainer: What are you talking about? Are you talking about the last century?]] I talk to my friends and acquaintances, whether they're workers, employees or entrepreneurs, former entrepreneurs or active entrepreneurs, like Wattl Glanzer, Othmar Pirker, Max Lackner and how they're all called and how we all know them in our region, they all say: Finally, a government that deals responsibly with our money and brings it a little further! And now: Government ended without need! – Bravo!, I can only say. We made it there now and we have the free play of the forces. At this moment, many have already forgotten that this money, which the taxpayers mentioned above have provided us with, is the play money we are dealing with here in this Parliament. We had a great team in the Ministry of Finance – we have already mentioned this today – it was Finance Minister Hartwig Löger, it was our State Secretary Fuchs who, together with the heads of the section and the officials – one sitting here as a finance minister on the government bank – developed this budget path. I hope that the new Minister of Finance and former Head of Section will be the first Minister of Finance for 65 years to announce this surplus, this zero deficit at the end of the year. Not only were the zero deficit and the surplus budget planned, but in parallel necessary reforms and appropriate measures were also put in place. I recall the family bonus Plus, a family policy measure which the SPÖ has only dreamed of in recent years, the tax relief for workers and employees, in reducing the tax rate to 40 percent, in the discharge of companies and, above all, in the small and medium-sized enterprises, and not primarily in industrial enterprises, as you say, Mr Leichtfried, in reforms such as the merger of social security companies and, and, and. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] Many things have been set in motion, and the fairest tax reform ever planned. Now, of course, this tax reform is in the waiting position, namely whether it can continue to be implemented in autumn. I would just like to take one example from this tax reform, because this is so significant for the good cooperation of our companies, our entrepreneurs outside with the employees and because a very successful entrepreneur of a tableware from the Mölltal has specifically addressed and said to me on this point: Give me the opportunity to give my employees some of my profits without the state taking away half or more of them! – The employee participation was planned for 2022, so that entrepreneurs can make up to 10 percent of their profits free of tax available to any employee in the company. That would be the 15. Monthly salary, these people deserve it too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It can be seen that the class struggle that the SPÖ has always portrayed has not taken place for a long time. Workers and entrepreneurs have been a team for a long time and no longer those with a side to take advantage of and workers are pure service providers in the company. I must ask the EIA the following question: Which is the way you want to go? Is it influence and power, no matter who and at all? Our path of freedom can only be to continue the reforms begun and to make these reforms available to our country and its people and to implement them as the population has long deserved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6752	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6773	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I do not believe in magic and magic, but sometimes also in politics signs and wonders happen. For years NEOS has spoken in the truest sense of the word, and we have been committed to the end of debt making in Austria. We have made a strong effort to get a constitutional debt brake. Year after year, ladies and gentlemen, you have blocked our requests for precisely this debt brake in the corresponding budget committees, and when we made a urgent request in the plenary, you have all rejected it. That is why it is all the more gratifying that today, together with ÖVP and FPÖ, we will decide to do so with the help of Mr Finanzminister and will actually decide on the debt brakes. So the stubborn drilling of thick boards has paid off, and you could say quite simply: NEOS works. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now we have a really important legal cornerstone, that is one thing, but in the future it is also about implementation. If we are moving towards practical implementation, it is mainly about starting to save, namely with actual savings, in areas where it is possible and above all useful. That's this much-quoted saving in the system – it still has a lot to do with this saving. A sustainable budget policy – that is the theme of our current hour – has never been a beautiful keyword in Austria. In this context, I would also like to remind you of the turquoise-blue promises in the 2017 election campaign. Sebastian Kurz then announced savings of 14 billion euros; neither was the FPÖ shy and announced 12 billion euros. Two years later we have the first figures in the Federal Accounts 2018, and they draw a completely different picture: Instead of saving, ladies and gentlemen – you really have to let yourself be broken on the tongue – there was actually more money spent in every single area than in 2017. What we have seen was an unblemished donor federalism: light-footed, fired by sprinkling revenue that we have in economic good times. They have denied the opportunity to consolidate in the time of the high-conjunction – and this, although They did not have to save banks, although there was no unforeseen refugee crisis and no financial crisis to deal with. It would have been all done, however, debt has increased further last year, and under the rule we have an administrative deficit of 1.1 billion euros in the federal accounts, despite low interest rates and in spite of unexpected additional revenue from the hypo settlement. If we had to judge you by school notes – and it was very important to you that they were available again – then from my side you would be a smooth not enough. [[Abg. Hanger:... High Teacher!]] The often promised reduction in the tax rate is another good example. 40 percent was the direction, wasn't it? - Error message: In fact, you have increased the tax rate last year, from 41.9% to 42.2 percent. If you really mean it with this 40 percent seriously, then you have to save, saving in the system, you have to lower the expenditure. In each individual budget committee – many of you were here in the hall – I and several other colleagues have asked where you have actually saved in this system. The answer is obvious: nowhere. The EIA Finance Minister in question is now no longer in office, but this does not change the obvious problem of saving in the system even more difficult if you are the system yourself. That is precisely why we have NEOS quite specific proposals to finally overcome this system-immanent paralysis. Point one: Let's anchor this debt brake! Point two: Let's get rid of this unfair cold progression right after that! Point three: Finally, let us put together the level of responsibility for expenditure and for tax autonomy -, expenditure and revenue. – I just betrayed it, of course: We want tax autonomy for the countries and for the municipalities. Let us also, in general, put a stronger focus on the output, as we can learn a lot from the economy! We need an invoice. We spend a lot of time here in the House planning the budget, but then we actually don't talk about how it went out – that's kind of under the radar. That means that we need this annual balance sheet. These are exactly the documents in which you have to answer for the result in which you are accountable. Ladies and gentlemen! The debt brake from which we were able to successfully convince NEOS through persistent work, by pressing and drilling ÖVP and FPÖ is a really good start, but in the sense of subsequent generations it takes even more work. Let's continue this path and get rid of the unfair cold progression as well! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6816	Mrs Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6837	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! If a sustainable budgetary policy is defined in such a way that a zero deficit and an end to debt-making are put at the centre of budgetary policy, I must strongly oppose as an economic operator. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Abg. Hanger: Your left!]] Whoever is holding fast to the neoliberal dogma of the zero deficit and wants to enrich it even today by a decision on a debt brake in the constitutional rank, shows that he has not understood that a zero deficit and the end of debt cannot be a goal of a budget policy directed towards man and nature. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] At best, they are instruments, but they are also counterproductive from an economic point of view, even false. This policy of zero deficit does not become more correct, even if it is repeated by the EIA, by black finance ministers, by the FPÖ, by the European Union by mantra. If we look at budgetary and economic policy since the 2008 financial crisis, we can insist that this policy has completely failed. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] She gave us a long phase of stagnation, she gave us a lost decade. The countries of the south were affected in particular, and as a parade example, we can cite Greece. This policy of neoliberalism, this zero deficit policy has led to an increase in unemployment in all European countries and a dramatic increase in poverty. If you want to make the decision today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS, to anchor the debt brake in the constitutional rank, then you are making a very big mistake. We have a debt brake at a simple legal level, we have budget rules, we have the budget law. There are a lot of rules to ensure that one can pursue a budgetary policy that can also in the long term mark a steady path to debt development. If you want to anchor a debt brake in the constitutional rank, I also believe that it is not responsible, because we only have to take a look at the Federal Republic of Germany, where there is such a debt brake. And in the Federal Republic of Germany – ladies and gentlemen, please follow this a little before you take this decision – there is a fierce debate about relieving this debt brake for good reason: because it has led to an investment back in the countries, but also in the communities, which cannot be solved thanks to the debt brake. Consider this step very, very, very good! [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Let us now take a look at the budgetary policy of the last two years, which has been so high here! What did she bring us? – Well, thanks to a good economy, it has been possible to write good budget figures, that’s right; unemployment has fallen, that’s right; but the economy is leaving behind, and by the end of the year unemployment will rise again – it’s still too high overall. The number of people affected by poverty is too high, the number of those at risk of poverty in our country is too high, and this deficit policy, the dogma of the zero deficit, has contributed significantly. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Of course, this includes measures put forward by this government, such as the cuts in education, the reductions in family allowances for children abroad, but also reductions in transfers for children in the context of social assistance, the family bonus, which many people do not at all benefit. [[Abg. Wöginger: What about the family bonus?]] Yes, you also have to say that, you didn't say that, say it to that! Mr Wöginger, this government, with its policy, has accelerated the division of society, the gap between the poor and the rich has grown larger and not smaller. [[Abg. Wöginger: Go out to the people!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: From your constituency? He's got a Federal Mandate!]] I therefore believe that there is a need for a paradigm change in budgetary policy: away from zero deficit, to zero poverty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6947	I welcome the students of the Bundesrealgymnasium Hallein, who came to us from Salzburg. – Welcome! [[It was in favour of ÖVP, SPÖ and JETZT, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e6985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear students at the audience gallery! When I am on my way in my constituency and people are asking what was the most important thing that has been implemented in the last two years, 95 percent of people say: The end of debt policy was the most important thing that has been implemented over the last two years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Leichtfried! Mr Rossmann! I'm really surprised that you're so hard not to make new debts anymore. Debts are unsocial, debt has to be paid back again. [[Abg. Rossmann: Without debt policy no hospitals, no infrastructure, no...!]] This is a sustainable budgetary policy that we really stand for. The most important thing is: This end to debt policy is indeed sustainable. Let's look at the 2018 birth success: For the first time, there was a surplus in general government administration. Net financing needs are much better than budgeted. Let's look at the 2019 budget implementation: much better in execution than planned in spring 2018! Let us also look at the medium-term financial planning reported in Brussels: In the current planning, the relative debt level is below 60 percent. In this regard, of course, the appeal to the Hohe Haus is: All that we decide here in the so-called free play of forces, we should always look at it in total! We should also always see debt as a whole, because if we finance measures exclusively with debt, that cannot be the right approach. It is also crucial that not only relative indebtedness but also absolute indebtedness has declined. If we still had 285 billion euros in debt at the end of 2017, it is now 280 billion euros. The turnaround has been made, and that's sustainable, and that's the good news for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there are also other key figures that we need to look at, which are very important for an economy as a whole. I have chosen two from the wealth of one, of course, on the subject of unemployment. All important political commissions are always about unemployment. The good thing is – and that has already been said by my previous speakers – that it has declined in the last few years. In this respect, I find it particularly exciting to find another characteristic, namely the number of self-employed persons employed: I have looked at them very carefully and I can say that they rise by 50 000, 60 000 each year. We are currently in about 300,000 unemployed people, and it could theoretically be assumed that if this continues, unemployment will fall to zero at all. We know that this is just a theoretical value, because there will always be a socket unemployment because we have internal immigration because we have regional differences because we have different qualifications profiles. However, this marked increase in the number of jobs is already a great success. Of course, that's no one. This is a merit of the entrepreneurs together with the successful employees. You can't say that often enough! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Thank you very much. I've looked at another number that's very important to me personally. What is Austria doing in the area of poverty reduction? – Of course, we are committed to solidarity in Austria. We have recently commissioned a study in the budget service, and this has come to very amazing conclusions. In short, to the explanation: Relative poverty means having 60 percent less than the median income. One can discuss the number of people alone, because the higher, of course, the median income, the faster one is also in poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] When we look at pure market income, we realize that in Austria 24 percent are at risk of poverty, according to transfers – and we are a solidarity society – it is 14 percent. With this value, with this decline in poverty, we are world leaders. In my opinion, we can be very proud of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The special thing for me in budgetary policy is – I have already said it – that we have for the first time a trend change in debt policy, relative indebtedness, in absolute indebtedness. But at the same time we manage to relieve people. Much has already been said about the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, the family bonus Plus, the greatest family policy discharge in the Second Republic. It is said again and again: Well, the economy is getting worse, we have to do something for a long time. – The family bonus has long been a measure which takes effect because it naturally stimulates private consumption and provides for stronger domestic demand and also for stronger consumption. This is, of course, to continue. I am very pleased personally that social security contributions have now also been reduced. In this regard, I can thank Hubert Fuchs and, of course, our clubman for the fact that this has been negotiated. This is addressed to people with low incomes, because they pay less social security contributions. All of this is accompanied by a debt brake, which gives us a lasting constitutional guarantee that this debt policy is really put to an end. We can be proud of that. I think that's in the right direction. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7053	Mr Krainer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7074	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Especially to the students of the Bundesgymnasium Hallein: welcome to the Hohe Haus! [[Congratulations on MEPs from SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For me as a budget and financial politician, fewer words count, fewer ideologies, as they are sometimes spread mainly by the EIA, but count the hard facts, the figures. [[Abg. Hanger: Not with you! Don't even get red with it!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] What we see when we look at the hard facts, the hard figures, is that through the economic crisis – yes! – the budget deficit has increased and the budget of the Republic of Austria has been renovated in 2015. Since then we have a structural deficit of 0.5 percent or below. This is the number that indicates, regardless of the economy, whether the budget works or not. Good news: For four years now, we have had a renovated budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This was the very successful path of Faymann and Mitterlehner, which was continued by Kern and Mitterlehner. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The budget was under control, tax falling from year to year, especially at work, a falling tax and tax rate. On Friday we received the federal accounts, the first witness to this federal government. When you look at this, you see that short and straight - both rightly no longer in the house - have left this path. [[Abg. Hanger: So, Jan, you've already argued...]] Then the following happened: We have rising taxes, especially rising taxes on work. Read it in the Federal Accounts! For the first time in years, we have faced increasing taxes, especially on work. [[Abg. Wöginger: We had that in 2015 too!]] This is the result of one and a half years of black and blue [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Those who go to work for an income pay higher taxes. They pay these gifts, which you have distributed to hoteliers and so on – that is, the invoice – which the workers in that country pay. That's what's happening! That is the certificate issued by the Court of Auditors. I did not issue this testimony, but the Court of Auditors. You can read it at any time. What did you say? – You have promised that there is also a tax reform for those who go to work. She fell into the water now. We have already submitted a request three weeks ago so that those who go to work will get what you have promised. We introduced this many weeks ago, in such a way that those will also get it in 2020. You announced yesterday that there will be an application from you – we do not know it yet. What we read today in the “Kronen Zeitung” is that those who go to work and wait for a reduction in taxes must wait another year. The package should not come in 2020, but only in 2021. [[Abg. Wöginger: I'm going, with you, was it different?]] – Yes, read You're asking for us! [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, yes!]] With us, you already get the money in 2020. You have to be able to read. Trust the budget and financial experts and not the propaganda of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll call you a vote. [[Abg. Wöinger: Thank you!]] You will have to apply for a tax reduction next year, and not only as it stands in your application, because then they will have to wait a year and pay a year higher taxes. [[Abg. Wöger: Sense change!]] That's what you're doing here! A few more words on the debt brake: We have our own rules in Austria, which are much better, because they have led us to have a renovated budget since 2015. That is our Austrian budgetary law. The Germans have the debt brake you want to copy now in the constitutional rank. Do you know what the name in Germany is now? – In the meantime, it is called investment brakes and no more debt brakes because it inhibits investment. It's in front of the abolition. Almost all the well-known economists say that they have to be abolished because they have hindered investment in the past. [[Abg. Wöginger: But this is wrong budgetary policy!]] Above all, we know the following: If we want to do something seriously against climate warming, then – we all know – we will have to invest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The debt brake therefore means that they cannot fight climate change at all, that is to say the economists in Germany. [[Abg. Wives: Ah, look here!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is what all the economists in Germany have been living with this investment brake for years. [[Abg. Zarits: In Germany they... percent!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] And I'll tell you the following: What we need is the green zero, the green zero, in terms of emissions, not emissions. It's, honestly, more important than the black zero. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you have the black zero and no green zero, then you only have black zeros, and we have seen enough of that! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7313	Mr Fuchs is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7334	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! After the fairy tale hour of the SPÖ, I would like to return to the facts. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly!]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] As early as 2018, we achieved a result of EUR 1 billion better than budgeted and achieved a zero deficit overall. After 65 years of debt policy, in which the SPÖ was not entirely undivided, we will generate an administrative surplus at the federal level for the first time in 2019. If this turquoise-blue success path had been continued, we would have been able to guarantee the zero deficit at both federal and state level until 2023. In 2023, Austria had fulfilled all Maastricht criteria for the first time since accession to the EU. If the SPÖ – now also by Mr Krainer – is repeatedly claimed that the turquoise-blue success story alone is due to good economic conditions, then it must be said quite openly: The SPÖ has also succeeded in permanently increasing the debt mountain during excellent economic conditions, at the expense of all subsequent generations. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: 2017?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And, of course, the tax reforms, which have been constantly organised under the SPÖ leadership, have been refinanced on the basis of new taxes and new debts. If this turquoise-blue success path had been continued, we would have been able to relieve the Austrians of EUR 8.5 billion annually from 2022 – EUR 8.5 billion annually! It would also have been the most honest tax reform of all time because it would have been refinanced without new debts and without new taxes. The tax rate, Mrs Double Bauer, would have fallen to 40 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Even if we can no longer implement all the discharges that we had planned, I am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in all the measures taken in the Council of Ministers' lecture on 1 January 1990. May 2019 is planned to be implemented together with the ÖVP. Klubobmann Wöginger and I will submit a corresponding initiative proposal tomorrow, which will ensure the implementation of the 2020 tax reform. The FPÖ has always been a very special concern that the low-earning workers and pensioners, but also the low-earning small entrepreneurs, benefit from a tax reform – and this is ensured by the tax reform 2020. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, this tax reform will also implement first tax measures in the field of the environment. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on the debt brake, which according to SPÖ is an investment brake; moreover, according to Rossmann, there is no reasonable budgetary policy without new debts. Actually, it's a house mind that you can't spend more than you take. This is so in every household, in every family so, and therefore we will also introduce a corresponding debt brake. [[Abg. Vogl: That's not true! In house building, for example!]] If Members say that they had to drill hard boards, then they should have read through our government program. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] On page 21, we have committed ourselves to introducing a corresponding constitutionally anchored debt brake as an expression of a modern constitutional state. That is to say, that is to be read in the 2017 government programme, so you don't have to drill hard boards. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am glad that, together with the ÖVP and NEOS, we will make a corresponding request for the introduction of a constitutionally anchored debt brake. This is an expression of a sustainable, responsible and forward-looking budget policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7446	Mr Schellhorn has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7467	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Estimated Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Yes, we are quite clearly committed to a constitutional debt brake. This is also the responsibility we show. It has also always been a clear demand of NEOS, namely, from the state to the future to think from A to Z, and thinking for the future also means thinking for the next generation. That is why it is particularly important to have a constitutional debt brake here too. As the last speaker of a group, one has the task of cleaning up, so to speak, with false, incorrect or perhaps incorrect facts or with words living in one's own truth, and some more detailed, quite clear. Member of the Krainer said that in Germany investment had, as it were, fallen to the public due to the debt brake in the Constitution. We haven't had them yet, and in the past nothing has been invested, even with the SPÖ in government responsibility. There was no investment in infrastructure. [[Abg. Vogl: Brennerbase Tunnel!]] I ask you: What happened to digitization? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] What happened? – That’s what we’re thinking, we’ve got a big traffic jam, and nothing has happened anyway. Now, paint the devil on the red wall, not on the black wall. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] That means that nothing will happen in the future either. – This is completely wrong, and therefore debt policy must stop too! It is completely wrong what Mr Haubner said. On the one hand, Mr Haubner rightly praised the export economy, the entrepreneurs et cetera, and said that it is very important that all of them be promoted in the future, but on the other hand that we need a debt policy. - No, wrong! – No debt policy! [[Abg. Haubner: No debt policy!]] They are responsible for the absence of a debt policy. Not revenue has fallen, but expenditure has increased just as revenue has increased, and this is due to people, those entrepreneurs, those taxpayers and taxpayers and not to this old government. [[Abg. Haubner: I said eh!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] It has not saved anything on the part of the expenditure – zero, niente, nothing! You have simply rested on the fact that there has been a total of 7.7 percent more wage tax revenue, that income from corporate tax has increased by 16 percent and those from capital income tax by 12 percent – and this is the rising revenue. Thank you very much for this discharge! – That was the businessmen and not the government. And then something else comes with: Ah, we'll do something on the side of the spending. – The Minister of Finance, a. D., has misunderstanded a pact of responsibility with the two heads of state, who have said: We are now doing something similar to a transparency database, only without sanctions! – That was a PR-gag, as much as a PR-gag, and nothing else. As long as I have no sanctions on those who throw out the money with open hands – and these are the countries! – I don't have a mechanism for that long. That's why it takes a debt brake, and nothing else is right. You are no longer lord of the heads of state. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I understand that you just lost control. [[Abg. Wöginger: The Haslauer is very difficult!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] There are then again small choices, then once again you have to distribute a bit of sugar et cetera. Yes, Gust, it also concerns you, also Upper Austria is concerned. [[Abg. Wöginger: We have a super country captain!]] I think it's very important that we act here responsible for the next generation. Get out of here with the mercenary feudalism! Get away with federalism according to the old pattern! We need a slender state like a company, and we need it, and here I am - but now let me say a few words to Mr Rossmann, apologise for me to break down there! Thank God he said neoliberalism is to blame because Greece and Spain and the southern countries and bla, bla, bla. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – It was neoliberalism, therefore, thank you, Mr Rossmann! Unfortunately, he's not in the hall. But one thing I have to ask: Were it not those countries that themselves had done so wrong, who lied to the balance sheet policy, who lied in Brussels? It wasn't these states? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And then it's neoliberalism?- Oh, my God! I think I went down there laughing under the armchairs. It can't be like that! That is the typical system: irresponsible, and we socialize the entire debt policy; that is what everyone else is supposed to pay. - No! We are equally responsible for our budget. We here are responsible for ensuring that tax money is handled carefully, that the tax money is also carefully spent, that it is invested in the future and that it is invested in reforms and not just in the distribution of money. That's why it's going and that's why the debt brake has to be in the constitutional rank.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7608	The next speaker was Mrs Bißmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated members of the Federal Government! What does a sustainable budget policy in Austria have to do with the climate, Fridays for Future and the OMV? – A lot: We promote environmentally and climate-damaging behaviour in Austria with subsidies at billions each year. Diesel cars, coal combustion and climate damage emissions cost us 4.7 billion euros annually. In addition, in the event of non-negotiation against the climate crisis, up to EUR 8.8 billion per year of climate change damage, as well as a threat of criminal payments, also at billions, will be added for non-compliance with EU climate change targets. So we need a climate-damage brake, which is the only debt brake we need, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria, taxes on environmentally harmful behaviour account for only 6 percent of the total tax rate. This is nothing compared to the consequences of environmentally harmful behaviour. The Austrian budget is therefore neither sustainable nor climate-neutral. We need an ecological tax reform, i.e. higher taxes on energy and resources and away with environmentally harmful subsidies. The share of eco-taxes can be doubled from 6 to 12 percent without further delay, and in order to avoid a tax additional burden on consumers – that is the hairy point in politics – the additional income is reduced in the form of an eco-bonus for households, in the form of an innovation bonus for industry. If a family bonus was possible, then an ecobonus is also possible. Fridays for Future calls on people's representatives to finally introduce an eco-tax reform. We should also be in line with this, because it is not just a sustainable budget, it is a sustainable future for all, and it is not a way through an eco-tax reform. What would actually change in Austria? – Trucks and air-conditioning vehicles will no longer be rolled free of charge over our roads, the entire rail network will be taxed and more revenue from climate-damaging traffic will also make rail driving cheaper. Electromobility and public transport are massively expanded. The air is getting cleaner, there will be significantly fewer people dying from the effects of air pollution – that is, 400 000 people in Europe every year, more people than in Graz. Most of the 11.3 billion euros that go from Austria annually for the purchase of oil in the Middle East remain in the country. This means not only investing in a climate-friendly economy, but also turning authoritarian government systems to the tap. All this would be so easy to implement, there would not be the big blockers and roadblockers, such as the dinosaur company OMV, which prevents sustainable tax conversion by not recognizing the signs of time and building its business model on renewable, innovative, climate-friendly, as the energy group Ørsted made it from Denmark. This could be a good example for Austria. The ex-fossil energy group Ørsted launched its oil and gas business years ago and now invests exclusively in renewable energy projects and produces only clean electricity, but no nuclear power, and Ørsted didn't have to quit a single job. Half of the OMV belongs to the Republic of Austria. rich, it is therefore in the government's responsibility – whether expert government, or political government – to ensure that within the Group there is a restructuring process in the direction of a climate-friendly Group economy. – Yes, dear ÖVP, we climate protectors are not against corporations, we are only against climate-damaging corporations; and there are climate-friendly Group economy, as the example Ørsted impressively shows. And, dear ÖVP, without green OMC, there will never be an eco-social market economy in Austria, for which the OMC is simply too big and important. Sooner or later, all industrial companies and politicians will have to recognise that we need to convert business models to ecological, efficient, sustainable and climate-friendly to go over time. Again: A climate-friendly economy throws away a lot of money, only it is no longer toxic money that costs human life. We need a debt brake that prevents climate damage and allows our future generations a future. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7689	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:26:55]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7711	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed in the meeting room, including those which were slightly longer than a page. We are still working on the deadline proposals that have yet to come in. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7928	In order to be able to negotiate item 1 of the agenda, it is necessary, in accordance with Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from the 24-hour deadline for the setting up of the Committee's report, with an increased quota. This is the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are convinced of the removal from the time-limit, for a corresponding sign of approval. - That's the unanimity. It is therefore adopted unanimously. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7958	It is proposed that the debates on points 3 to 5, 6 to 8, 9 and 10, 15 and 16, 19 and 20 as well as 24 to 26 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Now comes a longer reading exercise. I can ask you to take a seat again. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e7983	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform the House that the Members of Parliament have requested that the Financial Committee report on the motion for a resolution (923/A) by Mr Krainer, Mr President of the Council, be sent to the Committee on Financial Affairs for a period of 20 years. September 2019 to be set up. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has requested that the Committee on Equal Opportunities report on Amendment No 332/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, be limited to 24 years. September 2019 to be set up. It will also be voted upon after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Mr Becher, fellow Members, asked the Committee on Buildings and Housing to report on amendment 15/A by Mr Becher, Mr Colleagues, on a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. The same procedure shall be applied with regard to the vote as with the other requests. I can tell you that Member Stöger has requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on request 324/A by Mr Stöger, Mr Stöger, Mr Stöger, Mr Stäger, Mr Stäger, Mr Stäger and Mr Colleagues, should be sent to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for a period of 24 years. September 2019 to be set up. The vote will be taken as before. Mr Muchitsch has also asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Muchitsch's request for a 577/A deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. There is the same procedure in the vote as in the previous requests. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that Mr Loacker has asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on Mr Loacker's motion for a resolution, Mr Loacker, Mr Loacker, Mr President of the Commission, for a period of time until 24. September 2019 – the same procedure with regard to the vote. Mr Bernhard also asked the Environment Committee to report to the Commission on the application 894/A(E) for a period of time until 24. September 2019 – the same procedure in the vote. Before entering the agenda, Mr Bernhard also asked the Environment Committee to report to the Commission on application 805/A(E) for a period of time until 24. September 2019 – the same procedure again. Mr Bernhard has also requested that the Environment Committee report on the 803/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, be limited to 24. September 2019 to set up – the same treatment mode. Similarly, Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, asked the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on Mr Androsch's motion for a resolution (763/A(E)) and Mr Androsch, colleagues, on a deadline until 4. to be set up on July 2019. The present request will be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations. Similarly, Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, asked the Health Committee to report to it on the request 566/A(E) from Members Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on a deadline until 4. July 2019 – the same procedure in the vote. In addition, Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, asked the Health Committee to report to Parliament's amendment 814/A(E) for a period of time up to 4. July 2019 – the same procedure in the vote. In addition, Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, asked the Health Committee to report on the request 860/A of honourable Members Androsch, colleagues, a deadline until 4. to set up July 2019 – the same voting procedure. I should also like to say that Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has requested that the Health Committee report on the motion for a resolution 878/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, a deadline until 12. September 2019 to be set up. The motion for a resolution will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Similarly, Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber asked the Health Committee to report on the motion for a resolution 854/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, on a deadline until 12. September 2019 – to set the same voting procedure. Similarly, Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has requested that the Health Committee report on the motion for a resolution 877/A by Mr Holtinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, be limited until 12. September 2019 – to set the same voting procedure. Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that Mrs Griss has requested that the Justice Committee report to the application 840/A a period of time to 1. September 2019 to be set up. The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Mrs Griss has also requested that the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection report on application 821/A(E) be sent to the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection. September 2019 – the same procedure in the vote on the request. Similarly, Mrs Griss requested that the Committee on Justice report on application 841/A be sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for a period of until 1. September 2019 – the same procedure. Mr Loacker has also requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution (827/A) be sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. September 2019 to be set up. The request will also be put to the vote after the end of the negotiations. Mr Schellhorn asked the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy to report on the application 902/A(E) for a period of time until 24. September 2019 – the same voting procedure. Mr Bernhard has also requested that the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth report on amendment 838/A by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, be limited to 24. September 2019 – the same procedure in the vote. Mrs Griss has also requested that the Committee on Internal Affairs report on the motion for a resolution (843/A) by Mrs Griss, colleagues, set a deadline until 1.9.2019 – the same voting procedure. The last request was also tabled by Mrs Griss, who requested the Committee on Internal Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 822/A(E) Mr Griss, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a period of time until the 1st century. September 2019 to be set up. That is what we have done now. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8117	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. A daily block time of 12 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed; the following speaking times result: ÖVP 222, FPÖ and SPÖ each 198, NOW and NEOS per 66 minutes. For the club-free Members, the speaking time is 33 minutes; the debate time is limited to 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on speaking time. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:36:25]] 1. Point Report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research (677, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8163	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Mr Gerstl has refrained from oral reporting. Mr Ofenauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8191	Mr President. Estimated colleagues in the High Authority House! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Clean water is our livelihood next to air and food. Having drinking water in the best quality and in sufficient quantity is everyday for us ourselves, but this is not a matter of course when compared with other regions. We are therefore also responsible for the fact that future generations can also have clean and healthy water. In the future, therefore, quality-free and above all high-volume drinking water supply – especially at socially acceptable prices – must be guaranteed. Proper water supply is a crucial basis for quality of life in our communities. The local representatives are also very aware of this, because the expenditure of water supply, but also the waste water disposal are regularly the highest in our municipal budgets. That's why at this point also a warm thank you to all those who take care of them every day, from the watermasters to the councils to the mayors! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that we have clean drinking water in Austria is due to the people who have worked for it, but this is also the result of the legislative process, because the Water Law regulates the use of the water, but also the cleaning of the water. The requirements that have been set in it have also led to an enormous improvement in the quality of Austrian water over the last few decades. Against this background, I am all the more pleased that there has been an agreement on a joint request with the SPÖ and the FPÖ – with the aim of ensuring public water supply as it has been. An amendment to a Federal Constitutional Act with the following text is to be adopted: The Republic of Austria's commitment to "water supply as part of the general public care and to its responsibility for ensuring its provision and quality, in particular for this purpose" is that "public ownership of drinking water supply and the power to do so in the interests of the public's well-being and health is to be preserved in public hands". This will continue to ensure the supply of water in sufficient quality by municipal providers, water associations, water cooperatives, as well as outsourced companies, such as urban plants or EVN water. However, private house wells should continue to be possible as before, because there are areas where central water supply is not possible or not wanted. The Water Law then intervenes, because that regulates the use of its own water for its own supply. However, it also regulates the permissible quantity of withdrawal and also ensures the sustainable availability of this important resource. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This joint proposal aims to make it even more clear than before that maintaining the high quality of water supply is a task of the Republic, the Federal Republic, the Länder and the municipalities, and that ownership of drinking water supplies should continue to remain in public hands. – Thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8248	The club woman Rendi-Wagner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8269	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What we have seen and heard in the Ibiza video was undoubtedly the low point of political culture in Austria for decades. There was an insolent talk about the award of state contracts to a Russian oligarchy, insolently about illegal party funding, insolently about the sale of a large Austrian daily – and it was discussed about the privatisation of Austrian drinking water. Yes, in recent weeks there has been a lot of speculation in Austria: Was that just a brawl, a bubble layer? Or were there concrete plans underlying this video and its saying? – This is certainly an interesting question, but for me at the moment it is secondary. The fact is what was said was said. There were two leading politicians who said all that, and this is not to be apologised, for words, ladies and gentlemen, have power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is said is that it is said that it can become a possibility, and more so, what is said can become reality. With this danger, we all have to deal with politics, and if we really want to repair the massive damage that this video of political culture has done in Austria, then we have to make sure that never will be real, what has been said in Ibiza. [[Abg. Kickl: Put it out to the cast farmer, he knows all oligarchs with first names!]] We've got a lot to do with that, I think. We will have to restore the propriety; that is a great task. But we have another task: We need to protect our water against such plans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am pleased that we have come to the realization here in this House that our water must never, never be privatized. Water is the source of life. Yes, we in Austria are lucky to have this source of life in front of the door. We have water in shell and abundance, we have lakes with clean drinking water, we have rivers that have shaped our landscape for centuries, we have crystal clear mountain water. Our land of streams, as it is so beautiful, is indeed rich in this treasure. Most of the world's countries do not have that, and they envy us precisely about this wealth. That is exactly what we are going to do in politics, namely on the question of responsibility, how we deal with this wealth and this treasure that Austria has, how we are dealing with preserving it for the following generations, all the more so in a world where climate change and ever greater water shortage in many countries of the world become a sad certainty. Some have mentioned this idea and idea in advance populist, but let us look around in other countries. It's not pure populism and it's not just a pure brain spider about what it's all about here. Let us look at the UK, France and we also look at Germany where drinking water supply has been privatized in recent years. Higher prices and poorer quality for the population were the result. I do not want water to become a luxury product for the international market. I do not want us in Austria to privatise water supply, with the result of higher prices and lower quality, and I do not want water to become a commodity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that the water belongs to all of us and no one has the right to profit from it. If some call it populism, we call it responsibility: Responsibility for coming generations, responsibility for the security of supply in Austria and responsibility for our nature. The Austrians must trust that we will pass responsible laws in this House. Today we have the opportunity and we use it – this is a good day – we use it to strengthen this confidence that people have in us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By adopting a Constitutional Act that prevents the privatisation of our water for all time, we take all responsibility for its protection, thus taking responsibility for the political culture of this country, for the coming generations and for the most precious property that this country has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8334	Mr Klubobmann Hofer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8355	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! I can say that we all know how valuable this treasure of water is. It's vacation time now, and when you've been on the road and you come home – at least I think so – the great thing here is that you can drink the water from the water pipeline. This is not the case in many countries of the world. 3.6 billion people suffer from water scarcity, and by 2050 there will be 5 billion people. The reason: the change in climate, more heat, of course also population growth, which also affects the household, and, of course, the increasing consumption, especially in countries such as India, China, where the middle class is becoming more and more widespread, where there is also wealth and where one consumes more than that has been the case so far. Especially affected are the Middle East, particularly affected are large parts of China, India, but also the west coast of the United States of America. When you see this picture in total, you know how important it is to protect our rich treasure of water. We have a precipitation of 12,000 cubic meters of water per capita and year; that is, we are really rich in the water treasure. The total water consumption is only 3 per cent of that total, which I mentioned earlier, so only 3 per cent of the water available in Austria is consumed, of which 60 per cent is from industry, 35 per cent goes to drinking water supply and 5 per cent goes to agriculture. Business with water, access to the sources, all of this is at the heart of the interest of corporations such as Nestlé, where water is a lifestyle product, where what is actually owned by citizens is filled in bottles and then sold back to the citizens. This is a dangerous form of commercialization. If sovereignty is important to us, then there are two areas that we must pay particular attention to: on the one hand, the energy supply of the country and on the other hand the supply of food and water. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Water plays a special role. Of course, water plays a special role in energy supply: We are very lucky that we have covered a large part of our electricity consumption by hydropower and that, of course, in the future, with hydrogen, we will also be able to support our electricity consumption and mobility with renewable energies – the decarbonisation keyword – and I must say that it is currently the case that we are not extracting hydrogen from water, but from methane, and so, of course, this is not an environmentally friendly variant. We need green hydrogen by bringing the surplus from renewable energies into the electrolysis, then storing this hydrogen and operating vehicles in this cycle, or producing heat and electricity. That's the way we have to go. Water remains in our hands. However, allow me also to present a partial aspect because it was previously pointed out what words meant and that words also lead to actions. You're perfectly right that you have to be very, very careful. We have seen, also in the federal capital, where cross-border leasing operations have been made – there were the Vienna lines and the Vienna city plants – that this way of selling out – in this case – US- Companies cannot be the right way. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also need to be careful in the involvement of companies in important infrastructure, which is China’s keyword. We know that China is buying important infrastructure in many parts of the world, ports, railway lines, so everything you need to be economically active in the future, and we want to sell out as little as we sell out the water. So water remains in the hands of the Austrians, water remains public property and the power over it remains in Austrian hands. I should like to thank the SPÖ, the ÖVP and all the parties involved and supporting this request very much. This is an important step towards a positive future for our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8423	The honourable Member, Mr Bernhard, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8444	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I am particularly pleased that as a NEOS member I can speak today on the issue of high and public good water and also on its non-privatisation. In advance, I would like to say why NEOS is so important to us: We are the only party in this Parliament who does not deal with water. You must have said that in all clarity. [[Abg. Noll: Hello!]] [[Objection to JETZT.]] Why don't we do business with water? – Because for us liberals of man is at the heart of us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are not trying to seduce a state into profit – at the expense of people. [[Abg. Kickl: Man has to serve man and not vice versa!]] – Well, Mr. Ex-Minister Kickl, you have proved that with the service, I think, quite well. [[Complementary of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] For us, the issue of water and the protection of water focuses on the quality of life of the people. But I would also like to say something else: What do I mean by business? With the Freedom Party – perhaps the next call from the first series – it has been carried quite clearly by video message. In Ibiza they said: Zack, Zack, Zack!, and you've just seen the opportunity to do business; the party leader at that time has seen the possibility to do business with the water. But what about the other two parties? Are they so clean now? Did they wash in? For example, the ÖVP: They'll probably say something about Hallstein Water. There is a company in the Salzkammergut to which one has approved the filling of water from the Federal Forests, quite precisely that has approved the first black and blue government. The company has been upright since 2016 and is making an annual turnover of 140 million euros with the filling of Austrian water and exports in all countries. Of the 140 million euros, 129 000 euros go to the Federal Forest in the form of an annual usage fee. This was requested during the first black and blue direction, while a red and black government was actually approved. By the way, a partner of the company was a black official – whether he has become turquoise, I don't know. In turn, the company donated an amount of 10 000 euros to Andreas Khol during the Federal presidential election campaign in 2016. This is exciting, because the ÖVP is at least passive in water privatisation, involved in the margins. The SPÖ is a little different. Of course, the collective idea is going through. There you can do it about the city of Vienna: To a large extent, charges are increased, which will significantly increase revenue than would be necessary in order to ensure the water supply of the population. All these are businesses that are already being made with water today, and in addition, we also talk about the supply of 10 percent of the total population from our own wells, from water cooperatives and from many other areas, especially in rural areas. This means that these are supplied by private water, of course not profit-oriented. Another point I would like to raise is also central to us: Privatization in itself is nothing bad in many areas, but in some it is. Why is this attitude so clear? – In the past, the state as an entrepreneur has carried out many, many elegant abdominal landings in Austria, which have only led to mail chess and tax money waste. Of course we don't want to. So in all those areas where private companies can make it better, we will continue to support NEOS in keeping it private. The water is different. This is about water quality, about a guarantee of preservation, about quality of life and a basis of existence, and precisely for these reasons we will agree to today's request, also in order to finally no longer make water the game ball of ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for broad consent, and leave your fingers off our water! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8512	Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8533	Mr President. I'll take it as it comes. I am glad that there is agreement in this House that drinking water should remain public good. That's good, there's agreement here in the house, that's important and that's right. However, what I do not agree with – and I am telling you that quite openly and with great reluctance – is that you are making the Austrian Constitution even more of a letter scrapping site with this provision, that you are here importing a wording into the constitutional body that has little to do with German language, and in particular that the SPÖ is nevertheless going along with – I say quite openly – although it incorporates in oral discussions that this formulation is really insanity. That's not German! In the SPÖ there's something to add: From Lassalle to Kautsky to Otto Bauer, from August Bebel to the following people, one has been oriented in social democracy on the common good. But what do you add to the Constitution? – A term such as the provision of existence, by a Nazi judge, and you do not yell, but you participate in it. But a proposal that says that we should leave drinking water in public ownership, you reject it. The phraseology you have offered here, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, is really strange. This is not a safeguarding of public property, it is a mere objective of the state, and what we must consider to be state objectives, it has shown us the VfGH in a variety of cases. That's not just symbolic use of politics, it's really a mistake of one's own partygoers and one's own followership, and you really should get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8573	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8594	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We are happy that we are allowed to live in Austria, and we are happy that we can drink water, even from the tap that we can turn up in the apartment or somewhere else, no matter if we live in the country or in the city. This has not been the case in all countries of the world. In part, there is a lack of quality, in part the quantity is not sufficient. How is it in Austria? – In Austria, we use only 3 percent of the water available in drinking water quality. So what do we need this constitutional provision for? – Water supply – water itself, water supply and water disposal – is an important point of general interest, and it is the task of policy to provide drinking water in sufficient quantity. However, there are developments that cities sell the supply facilities and then lease back. Now, if I look into the left half of the empire – from Mrs Rendi-Wagner has now come a lot – I am thinking of an article from the “Presse” of 8.11.2014, which I am reading to you now: [[towards SPÖ]] [[Abg. New builder: Half is no more!]] “Still should also be the Vienna SPÖ and mayor Michael Häupl. In its era, the city of Vienna completed cross-border leasing. The channel system and tram facilities were sold to U.S. companies and returned immediately. Sale-and-lease-back business is called that.” [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And then we're going to go on: “Bundeskanzler Werner Faymann, as Vienna City Councillor, also contributed to the SPÖ tax loophole policy as well as the former municipal councillor Andreas Schieder, who later became State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and now as SP-Klubobmann the tax-morala-postel Mimt.” – So the “Presse” of 8.11.2014, which is quite interesting. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] For us, however, it is important: We don't want this kind of business. The ÖVP doesn't want that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a good business in the short term, but in the long run the totally wrong way. In the future, we want cities and communities to have the supply for their citizens, that the smaller and larger cooperatives have the water supply for their members in their hands, and that the water supply facilities themselves are private. It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers: About 10 percent of the water supply is provided in a purely private hand. Now I'm still coming to the subject of property of water. Ladies and gentlemen, water is private property. The owner is the one who belongs to the ground on which the spring springs or on which the water is created. The public hand only interferes when the water is used differently from for its own needs. This is quite clearly regulated in water law, and that is the case. It is important to me that water is actually in private property, because then this resource is also properly respected, appreciated and treated by the property owner. Finally, on the subject of water as a merchandise: Everyone says this is terrible, horrendous and belongs forbidden, but everyone sits at his mineral water bottle and drinks water that has been traded. 800 million liters of mineral water are sold annually in Austria, and interestingly more water is imported than exported – although we had some 100 billion cubic meters of drinking water available in Austria and only 3 billion cubic meters of drinking water. It is therefore the policy's task that every citizen can be sure that sufficient water is available in drinking water quality, and that commitment we give in today's law.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8650	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8674	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Water is a livelihood and not a commodity. My previous speakers have now said so much about the liberalisation and privatisation of water. Let me give you a brief presentation from the previous year: A business consultant who works internationally has said that at no time was the liberalisation of public goods and the supply in an EU country as favourable as in Austria at the time of Turquoise-Blue. – That’s alarming, and it’s particularly alarming when you hear Sager like: less state, more private!. Now, if I think of the water, it's a dangerous threat. If we go through our beautiful land, ladies and gentlemen, we find fresh and clean drinking water almost everywhere. Many of our streams and lakes have drinking water quality. Especially now in this heat, it is a good feeling to be able to drink out of every well, of every faucet. Water is a great treasure to envy many Austria. Anyone who travels abroad sometimes knows that this is not a matter of course. If you hear that much more water is imported than exported, it shows on the one hand that not much has been done wrong, but on the other hand how the PR machinery of profit-led economic operators and large companies is running. Water, ladies and gentlemen, the blue gold, is precious. Having sufficient water is a privilege, but also a basic need for every living being. Therefore, water must not become a speculation product. These desires to speculate with our precious water, and thus there is a real danger. We don't even know that since the Ibiza video, that's what big food companies have already proposed: Water is privatized and thus deprived of people in the country. Public drinking water supply in Austria is therefore to be guaranteed in the Constitution. Therefore, I am glad that our party president Pamela Rendi-Wagner has taken this initiative, which we today – I am grateful for that – will decide with a broad agreement. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] I remember, however, that our party president Dr. Pamela Rendi-Wagner was ridiculed and accused of performing populism. Our application for State-targeting forbids market liberalisation or privatisation in this area. If I let the remarks of Mr Noll, the constitutional expert, go through my mind, I must say: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that as lawyers, we are very likely to take into account in the daily decision-making process when it comes to considering interests, or when it comes to making decisions. [[Abg. Noll:... is a beautiful example!]] It is certainly a guideline, a command and is very well placed in many administrative and judicial decisions. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Noll.]] So let's not talk small! Of course, greater security is possible, and it is a first step. However, because I take your criticism very seriously as regards the terms of general interest or common good, I am in favour of the fact that we should go through the texts of the law as a whole, because the word 'prevention of existence' is tenfold. If this is historically so burdened, then we should really change it. [[Abg. Noll: But now you're still in the mood, gell?]] – It is a compromise, Mr Commissioner. [[Abg. Noll: This is not a compromise!]] This complements the broad commitment of the federal, state and local authorities to the supply of drinking water for the obligation to maintain public property and the public authority to provide water, which is good and right. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Noll.]] The supply of drinking water is rather small-sized in Austria, we know. 93 percent of the population are centrally supplied with drinking water by some 5,500 water supply companies. These companies are mainly organized as cooperatives, but also as municipal suppliers such as the urban plants. This multiplicity of structures is also fair to the request, since it does not intervene in the stock, but only provides for the preservation of public property. [[Abg. Noll: But then do it please...!]] We want to introduce the privatisation of water clearly and clearly a bar. Water supply should remain in public hands, for there it is best and safest for all. This request is an important success in protecting the water, taking into account existing structures and is a clear sign that we want to protect what we all need for survival. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8769	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Klaus Fürlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8793	Dear Members of the Federal Government! High Bureau! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, lawyers and representatives of pure doctrine can always argue that we do not have to write certain things into the federal constitution that we do not need any side-pack texts. Now, however, we have started this by making 2013 certain If the door is open, it is difficult to get back. It is also a question of calming down certain emotions that are raised in this water debate, which we are now entering the constitutional ranks. Estimated preliminary speaker, Mrs. Dr. Rendi-Wagner, the populism accusation did not go to you because it has been said that you want to keep drinking water supplies from privatisation, but because there is a permanent confusion between water supply and water per se. Everyone knows that the Austrian water is already at a large percentage, if not almost entirely private, due to the water law. That's what water law provides. In Austria 50 percent groundwater and 50 percent spring water are water. Water is therefore private property in Austria and cannot be privatized at all. In other words, with the more than 5,000 water suppliers mentioned by the previous speaker, which are public law agencies in the form of water cooperatives, or also regional suppliers as in the larger cities, and at least 10 percent, ladies and gentlemen, have own house wells, that is, private water is also referred to in the private supply facility. In view of this, I think we should be a little soberer in the debate. There is nothing against it, ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to aim to leave the distribution of private property water, the supply of water to the public. We can do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, whether this will be necessary will prove to be the case. I am deeply convinced that this federal constitution law will not change anything at the status quo. We will continue to be able to drink our clean water and live with it summa summarum after the vote in peace: Water was not at risk before this provision, nor will it be, after the adoption of this draft law, and that is good!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8841	Now Mrs Bundesminister Dipl.-Ing.in Maria Patek has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8863	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! Water has always been at the centre of my career: As a long-standing head of the Wildbach and avalanche plantation, I have worked on protection from water, and as head of the Water Management Section, I have had the entire broad arch of water in my responsibility. That is why I am very pleased to be able to express my views on this subject today in my first speech in Parliament, in the House. The provision of water supply for the population is a very important public task for communities in particular. Protection of the water supply facilities required is particularly important in this regard. In 2013, the Republic of Austria announced itself with a Federal Constitutional Law on Water Supply as part of its general provision of services to ensure its provision. The following was the intention of anchoring the responsibility of the federal, state and local authorities for the provision of water supply services as a state task in the Constitution. This should prevent any tendency to extend market liberalisation to those public services. This is confirmed by the joint request today and welcomed by the Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism. As stated in the explanatory statement of the application, the existing organisational structures through which water supply is provided in a functional manner are mentioned. In this context, the indirect majority participation of the federal, state and local authorities in the water supply sector is important. The provision of water supply for the population in Austria has a very high quality at reasonable prices. From the point of view of the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism, it is important that the high quality of the supply of water is maintained in the future. Conscious of the importance of the necessary infrastructure for the security of supply of drinking water, the Federal Government has supported the construction and renovation of the facilities in question since 1959. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8905	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Mr Robert Laimerzu has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8932	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Water is life, and Austria is water-rich – an invaluable privilege in the world, there are more than two billion people who do not have permanent access to clean drinking water. Although our planet is covered in water for two thirds, only almost 0.3 percent of it is drinkable. Serial forecasts say that in 2050 half of the world’s population will be affected by a lack of clean drinking water. Climate change will greatly aggravate the already fatal situation. Nevertheless, there are still politicians in our country – and they are not just from FPÖ – who want to privatize water and speculate de facto with our livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen, here red lines are exceeded, so the red and white-red water supply in top quality is highly protected and therefore to be raised in the constitutional rank. Austria can cover its water requirements 100 percent with groundwater and spring water, and that must remain the same. Our home is characterized by a landscape with streams, rivers and lakes. We have proud 100,000 kilometers of running water. 95 percent of our bathing waters have excellent quality – in addition to the mountains an essential reason for summer tourism in Austria. Our water must never become a speculation object. The experiences of the era Thatcher in Great Britain as well as in Paris and Berlin must be a warning for all of us. Water is not a deal object, water is a human right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Eßl: Vienna!]] Water supply and water disposal must remain in public hands. This must and will not be able to destroy a free trade agreement – not with Austria! Social democracy is guaranteed to do this. The unfortunate exceptions to the exceptions to nitrates and pesticides must also be discontinued, and a total ban on glycosate must be established to secure our livelihoods. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, living in a clean country is really a desirable goal for all and must be the responsibility of politicians of all couleurs. Austria has a simple and gripping role model. Rich in nature and resources: As already sung in our Federal anthem, we have our treasures to guard and not to lift up for business makers. Strict management requirements and a transparent, national record of fertiliser and pesticides make a significant contribution to Austrian water quality. However, drug residues are also a latent danger to our drinking water. I assume that today, in order to protect our drinking water, we can agree on a unanimous, national effort to achieve a state goal of highest priority, for the benefit of our people in our country: Appreciate water, protect water and not sacrifice any commercial purpose. Respect the element of water as a factor for the future for people, which today must be the common red and white-red denominator. Let's protect our white gold! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e8983	No one has made any mention of this, so that this debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 677 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with the draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. [[11:21:53]] 2. Point Request by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, Mag. Gerald Loacker, Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Law on the manufacture and placing on the market of tobacco products and related products and the advertising of tobacco products and related products and non-smokers. Non-smoking (tablek and non-smokers) Non-smoking Protection Act – TNRSG) is amended (859/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9044	We're going to Agenda item 2. With regard to this request, a period of time of up to 1 January was granted to the Health Committee for reporting. ==References== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure do not appear to me. The first is Mr Peter Wurm's speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9081	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Fathers. Asterix and Obelix: I suppose most people know these two comics or cartoon characters. Perhaps you can compare the story with this total ban on smoking, which is now planned. All Gallien was conquered by the Roman Empire under Caesar. Gallien? – No, a small village remains steadfast, wants to maintain its freedom, to continue its customs and to maintain its way of living, even despite the Roman Empire. Unfortunately, I have to say that as a liberal, we are a little bit in the position of this small Gallic village. [[Abg. Vogl:... the Troubadix!]] We are trying to maintain this freedom that we have so far had in Austria. But it looks like the Puritans, the Pharisees and the political corrects have now clearly won this long-standing war. The absolute, total ban on smoking in the gastronomy, with all the exceptions that have existed, of the ÖVP, of the SPÖ, of the NEOS – former Liberal Forum – and of the list NOW is obviously decided today. [[Abg. Cake: Did the sting fall into the sorcerer's potion?]] It is a matter of making it clear to me once again what we have always been talking about in this subject. For us, it was clear that adults, free citizens, both the gastronomy and the business community, can make this decision freely in a free country. Unfortunately, this development is obviously to the end of God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The decision of the Constitutional Court – which will otherwise always be fully established at the top – does not, of course, play a constitutional role for all parties except the FPÖ. With this decision, everyone suddenly has no problem or problem. The Constitutional Court has decided quite clearly that personal freedom should and should have priority. Otherwise, there was also a great discussion whether the law follows politics or vice versa. This issue suddenly seems to be no longer a matter of importance. Nor does it seem to play such a role as the protection of minorities, which is otherwise always held high in many areas. There the smokers, who are of course in the minority, are suddenly free of birds; there you can go over it and make more or less laws that, in my or our opinion, dictate a society dictatorically. I say once again what was always the ideological principle programme for us: free citizens in a free and tolerant society. In this area, the campaigning of a very large daily newspaper or the largest daily newspaper and many, many others are now clearly successful. Unfortunately, we will continue in this direction. I was always of the opinion that Austria has a very sensible system of living and living from the mentality. This is completely out of power. You can read it, you even read it in a big daily newspaper, in which just mentioned: There is a massive inn mortality in Austria, which is clearly not disturbed by the ÖVP. That is, an entire culture will be carried to the grave, and the last death blow will be the total ban on smoking. As ÖVP, they have already forced the innhouses, the coffee houses, the Beisln register, the Allergensverordnung and the entire bureaucracy insanity. I'm looking at how you want to explain this to the entrepreneurs. But I can promise you today: We will be there for the gastronomy now and also in the future and represent its interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the direction of SPÖ as a former employee party – which we have taken over, but you still have historical merits in this matter – I should like to say once again that as social democrats you have clearly forgotten that the workers in the gastronomy have to do this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You go a path à la USA with cheap jobs in fast food chains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] This is obviously what social democracy wants in the future, because the fast-food chains will not be affected by this history of smokers, but classical Austrian gastronomy will feel it very much, and workers will feel it too. - The SPÖ doesn't care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can also promise that we will explain this again and again to the population, but also to the gastronomy. We will ask: Who betrayed you? – The ÖVP and the Social Democrats. This is the truth that the population must also learn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As I said, I have personally and we liberals have really tried to explain this subject objectively over the past few years. There is no scientific justification whatsoever for introducing this absolute, total gastronomy ban. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I say it very briefly – you can also read everything on Parliament's homepage; we had an expert round, which showed a lot of facts: Firstly, there are still exceptions in the gastronomy throughout the European Union. Austria also has an average proportion of smokers and, and,. It's very important – that's probably what Mrs. Rendi-Wagner will say again – then: These all pseudoscientific studies on passive smoking have clearly been discouraged in this expert hearing. [[Call the SPÖ: This is embarrassing!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Rendi-Wagner, you can ask your colleagues who were there. With regard to passive smoking, I would like to say quite clearly: All the studies you find worldwide are based on a mathematical formula. There is no empirical investigation that proves health consequences of passive smoking. I have to read this SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS application again. There's inside: “A focused scientific study at the Medical University of Graz shows that a general ban on smoking” in the gastronomy “will prevent about 1,500 hospital stays in Austria every year for children up to 14 years”. – So this is a scientific inconsistency of a statement of an application...
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9194	Deputies! I would like to ask you to take back the expression “weakness” and, as a whole, to be a little moderate in terms of expression. Also for the... – I am speaking, Mr Worm! [[Abg. Worm: Of course I take that back, Madam President!]] I also give you an admonition for the expression “Pharisians. ” [[Call the FPÖ:And Volkleler?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I would also ask you to continue the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9241	All right, then: For such an unscientific reason, I must be surprised that especially the ÖVP – it is the great crasher in this story – is really involved. [[Abg. Scherak:... doctor, Peter, right?]] I can still remember how the ÖVP justified this very sensible legislation with the exceptions, with the very specific exceptions in the gastronomy, and that made sense. Yes, at the end of the day again: I say to everyone in Austria, to whom the freedom to choose this personal freedom, as an adult person, where he goes, what he does there, is important, and I also say to all smokers, who are important to continue smoking a cigarette or pipe in their bar or in their beesl, that it is on 29 October. There is only one option on September. If that's important to you personally, there's only one option on the 29th. September, and it's called FPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9278	Next speaker: Mrs Gabriela Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9303	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! But especially dear young visitors to the gallery! [[Abg. Neubauer: She has also voted three different times!]] They play a central role in this discussion about smoking and the ban on smoking in the gastronomy. I have given a number of speeches in the last one and a half years, and believe me, it wasn't my favorite topic with God. We all know how that happened at the time. Now the signs are different. As a former chain smoker, I also know what it is like; all of us, including you, colleagues who smoke, know that smoking is not healthy. [[Abg. New builder: Yes, but then it is not healthy on the street either, not only in the local!]] But I also know how easy it is to start smoking. This does not even require a local, but sometimes it is enough – or at my time – for the school yard. On the other hand, I also know how difficult it is to move out of this addiction after decades of getting from 60 cigarettes a day to zero. That's a hard way. The debate on smoking has also triggered a discourse in the public, and I am very grateful for that. I believe that the issue of personal responsibility, also addressed by Mr Worm, can be interpreted quite differently, namely going there as an adult responsibility, even for his own children, whether in closed rooms or at home. [[Abg. Worm: Gastronomy, Gabi! Gastronomy!]] I naturally appeal to all adults, even at home or at children's playgrounds not to smoke. I assume that this is not the case there that you really pay attention to it. In the gastronomy we have now found a solution. But we also – and that was a special concern to me – strengthened the protection of young people. I think it is very useful that no tobacco products are sold to young people under the age of 18. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The experts in the hearings have shown us many aspects. I am particularly reminded of a young woman who at the time, as an exchange student, made a comparison between young people in Australia and Austria. A key factor in deciding whether to smoke or not was the price of tobacco products, but also that smoking in Australia is not cool at all. I would also like from all Austrian young people that they don't think it's cool to smoke. The topic of gastronomy: We would have been concerned to relieve the gastronomy companies, which have invested as of 1.1.2018, with 50 percent return of investments. We were also really understanding that the people affected by noise in front of the locals cannot make the gastronomy companies and the owners liable for this. Unfortunately, we will not succeed. However, we have tabled amendments. I would like to make another amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, an appeal on my part: Those who smoke, please use all the help offered by the medical profession, pharmacists et cetera to find a way out of the addiction! Those who do not smoke, please stay with them! I would like that, especially for you, for the young people in Austria. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[11:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9462	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Maximilian Linder has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9489	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of man is for me and for us, for the Freedom Party, a very, very high good. The coalition, which is now disunited, has committed itself to freedom, has opposed the spirit of regulation, and has stressed the importance of human self-determination. A few citizens who know what they are doing should also be allowed to decide for themselves. It is precisely this self-determination that I see on the subject of smoking in the locals. Most of you know, I'm a host myself. I know what it means to let the citizen decide for himself whether he goes to my place in the smoking area or to go to the non-smoker area. He really has been able to decide for himself freely. As an innkeeper, I too have been able to decide for myself what I want: Do I take the risk that many people don't visit my local anymore, or can I live quite well with this form? I think we have had a regulation in Austria which has worked very, very well. Nobody has been forced to go to a smoking room. It was everyone responsible for his own health. Everyone has been able to decide for themselves: What am I doing? Which place do I go to? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But what will happen to the ban on smoking? – We hostess will be faced with the decision to see how the regular guests stay away – those who return to a beer after work and smoke another cigarette, or those who are at the wedding, at the birthday party in the local and then went to the counter to smoke a cigarette there in peace, drink a coffee and a snap – or whether we will take measures to keep it going. We will have to set up smoking sites, we will need to invest in innkeepers to allow smokers to smoke outdoors, including in rain, in snow and in winter. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many examples, and I would like to take a nice example from Spittal: A traditional gasthof in Spittal had first joined the mainstream and said: I'm making my place smoke-free. – The result was that the local was empty, the regular guests stayed out. After half a year, the host changed the strategy, he said: No, I have to get the smokers back in. He built a tent in the courtyard. The smokers went out; also the non-smokers were outside because there was the gathering because there was the fun; then the next step was that he had to install a heating; then the next step was that he really had to make the whole winter party; with the result that he said: So, now I've got a beautiful guest house that's empty, and the whole local business is playing out in this tent where I've invested a lot of money. Ladies and gentlemen, we will stand before this decision: to see that the guests stay away, or to accept that there is this freedom of choice, and to continue to invest in it. I am now talking about the country guest houses, about these really traditional innhouses in the village that we need for the gathering, but we also need to see a baptism, a wedding, a birthday party, a funeral dinner still in the village. Many of you who live in the country know how many communities there are, in which there is no more inn, where you have to look for all possible constructions, that the locals can still meet somewhere. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the last 40 years alone, the number of these country guest houses has halved: Of a total of 16 000, we are now at 8,500 country guest houses. [[Call the SPÖ:No smoking ban!]] And this, ladies and gentlemen, will continue much, much faster. I am somewhat surprised by the colleagues of the EIA, who have always committed themselves to this rural area, who have said that it is very important to promote and maintain rural areas. However, I believe that this measure has set another small needlestick. I am not talking about the fact that there will be no more innhouses at one time, but this is another small needlestick, in view of which many innkeepers and many innkeepers will consider whether to continue. I believe that this measure is really not useful and beneficial to show the host that they should continue to do so, that their work is still on the rise. It's a shame, and I hope that many innkeepers will be on the 29th. September will remember who is on their side.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9529	Mrs. Pamela Rendi-Wagner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9550	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Policy has a single task: This is to improve the living conditions, the living situation of the people. [[Abg. New builders: They limit them!]] Yeah, maybe this isn't always as conscious of us as it should be, maybe it's here and there's too much to forget, but that's exactly our responsibility. We've been elected for that and we'll be elected for it. Today is a political day of joy, because after several setbacks, after 18 months of political ignorance, he lets us get a law that significantly improves the lives of Austrians and Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will improve non-smokers protection, we will strengthen it and thus improve the health of people, hundreds of thousands of people in Austria, protect and prolong their lives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't want to look back long, but just hold on: Yes, the last federal government has done one thing, it has ignored, just as Mr Wurm has proved it again today. The last Federal Government has ignored all scientific facts relating to harmful passive smoking. [[Abg. Worm: Are they?]] She has ignored the doctors in this country, has ignored experts from the Medical University of Graz, as you have just said. It has ignored nearly 900,000 people who have signed a popular desire. And from her point of view, she has also successfully ignored the appeals of the youth, which were made here in the committees of the National Council to the Minister of Health, to which politics was addressed. [[Abg. Worm: We have introduced youth protection! We've introduced it!]] Yes, it needs a policy that defends reason. [[Abg. Worm: Totalitarian!]] It needs a policy that is confident that the reason, which often comes on quiet soles, will ultimately prevail and that it will not be overlooked, the quiet reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Much has already been said about the injury and the great danger of smoking; I would like to take this speech today in particular to thank the EIA MPs for fulfilling their responsibilities late, but nevertheless – and that was right and good. Thank you for reminding us again that we voted together in 2015 for non-smokers protection, that we had already decided together. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for the children in Austria, because they will no doubt save themselves, even if some ignore, through the ban on smoking in the gastronomy in future, 1,500 hospital stays. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This law gives all children and young people in Austria the chance to grow up healthier in the future. Today is also a good day for the health of Austrians, because they will all save 30 000 hospital stays in the future. [[Abg. Worm: Go, please! Such a fool, Mrs. Colleague!]] This is proven medical evidence. Maybe you've never heard of that before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And not to be forgotten are the many people, especially young people, who do not start smoking through this ban on smoking in the gastronomy and are thus not drawn into this dangerous addiction. Today is also an important day for the employees in the gastronomy who no longer need to work in an environment where smoking and nicotine exposure is between two and three times higher than in smoking households. [[Abg. Worm:... Cheap jobs!]] This was not fair to all other employees in that country. This injustice is also history with today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Cheap jobs!]] Today is also a good day for many hostesses in this country. I have had many conversations, I have visited many, many wanted to change to a non-smoking site, but I have not yet been able to afford it without a law. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Worm.]] Yes, today is a day of joy for Austria because we show one thing: We will show what is possible if we take responsible policies across party borders. It is a great step that I am very proud of personally, proud of the policy we are making in this House today, because we show that reason here is Mr. or Mrs. This decision, even though it sometimes takes a little longer. Finally, I would like to thank all those people who have made personal efforts in recent years to ensure that we come to this point today and make this important decision. There are 900,000 people who have signed the non-smokers' desire. There are numerous doctors, doctors and also NGOs who have worked for it. It was Sabine Oberhauser who personally fought for it with all her efforts in the years before 2015 and 2015. That's what we owe her. I would like to thank each and every one of them for fulfilling this and their responsibility. Yeah, they're doing the right thing, we're doing the right thing! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9710	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9735	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Well, you might like me, Mrs Rendi-Wagner. They stand here and try to be the passionate, convinced fighter for non-smoking. [[Call the SPÖ: That's it!]] It may be that you think so, may be that smoking is unpleasant to you, it's not me, I'm a passionate smoker. But if you speak out here already, then you also have to carry this line consistently and not at the Donauinselfest held by the SPÖ require all the stand operators to sell smoking goods. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where's your straightness, where's your consequence? So this double moral is supposed to be shown here once. [[Abg. New builder: She can still laugh at that!]] - Yeah, she'll get lost sometime. Well, there was a decision of the Constitutional Court. The ÖVP has hoped that the Constitutional Court will tip this law. Probably they were a little embarrassingly touched, the black brothers, when that was not the case. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On one thing, one can still count in this country, namely that the Constitutional Court of Personal Freedom is very likely to give priority to foreign determination. And that's exactly what it's all about. It is about the possibility to decide for yourself, it is also about taking on a certain degree of personal responsibility. It must – and so my opinion on this – be released to the host, whether he permits smoking in his premises, and the guest must be released from where he goes: where he is smoked, or where he is not smoked. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For me, this law now constitutes an intervention into a highly personal right, in property law. It is especially in rural areas so that many innkeepers are not only operators of the gastronomy, but also owners of the respective property, of the respective building. Now belongs to the host of this building, now he is told by law: You mustn't let smoking in your property anymore. – How far do we want to drive it? Is that going into the private living room? I can't smoke at home anymore, because the legislator believes I'm doing health damage with it? I think that is the real problem, that you are just taking advantage of these personal property rights and prescribe what you are allowed to do with private property or private property and what is not. As a pretext, workers' protection is used. Let's keep thinking! There are also waiters who smoke. What about them? Is the break in smoking that they can take from working time? I don't know what you think. Especially at the ÖVP there is always a round and round, a backbone like a garden hose. We host you as the pride of the nation. The hosts have invested in separate smoking rooms, in ventilation systems et cetera. You have passed the Allergensverordnung, barrier-free must be any holding that you have accepted. The Pommes and Schnitzel Regulation is an EU story, okay. There are so many requirements and so many controls that no one wants to be a host. We now note this in the case of acquisitions. Mr Linder said: Half of all inn has locked up in recent years. You, dear ÖVP, have already had the problem with the farmers. You are responsible for the deaths of farmers by promoting only industrial agriculture, and now you are also the graves of the host. I'm just waiting for you to raise your own grave once – and that would make me happy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9800	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9824	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Now the farmer must already die when it comes to the ban on smoking. Actually, almost everything has been said for the ban on smoking. We've been working on it since 2015. In 2015, it was decided for the first time that it should have entered into force in 2018, then it was withdrawn again. 890 000 citizens have signed for the ban on smoking in gastronomy, it will enter into force on 1.11.2019. Four years of transition is already a tough story for a project that is not so huge in itself, but I also say that for Austrian conditions it is actually a reform turbo: If you look at the adaptation of the age of women to that of men – 40 years of transition – then the four years are a small thing. [[Abg. Schimanek: For God's sake!]] I am grateful to colleagues from the ÖVP who took the opportunity to return to the ground of reason once they were released from the liberal hostagery. [[Abg. Neubauer: Does politics now follow the law or vice versa?]] We have heard 14 experts in the Health Committee. These experts have spoken in a loud voice, have presented studies from all over the world, have presented their own studies, and have then been set off by representatives of the House with common table arguments. If the goal of the hearings was to blame the Austrian Parliament, this objective has been achieved. - God, unfortunately! It is also heard here when Mr Worm says that the grounds for the ban on smoking are unscientific. He also said in the committee that he did not believe any statistics that he had not faked himself. So university professors have to be canceled in this state of play. [[Abg. Worm: Sowieso!]] I can only say: You can see who once saw a university from the inside. [[Abg. Worm: I got it, colleague Loacker!]] Not everyone must have studied, but to criticize a university professor in his work at this level, no one is allowed in this way. There you can be a hundred times a Member, a certain propensity and a certain level of encounter with the representatives of science can be expected from us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On behalf of my colleague Mr Zanger, who is afraid of intervening in the ownership of the host: This is now the same as with any other entrepreneur who has a business and there has the duty to protect his employees from the pain at work. It doesn't matter if this entrepreneur has a metal company, whether he has a car workshop, whether he has a inn – he has to protect his employees. There's the same thing as interfering in property with everyone. I thank all those who finally allow this ban on smoking and wish us a healthy, smoke-free survival.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9906	Next speaker: Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e9928	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Today, the health debate of the Türkis-Blue era ends. With Don’t Smoke, she has also triggered one of the most successful popular desires in the Second Republic, and today we can implement the demands of almost 900,000 people. [[Abg. Worm: A Pyrrhus victory for you! Believe me! Dictatur!]] We will restore the protection of health for all people, the protection of workers, the protection of children and young people and the protection of all non-smokers to the status of the Black-Blue Government Convention. The transitional scheme for gastronomy will expire at the beginning of November 2019, no longer and no less. We thus eliminate one of the most absurd legacyes of the failed legal conservative government. It is already significant that the two protagonists to whom we owe this situation, namely old Chancellors short and old vice chancellors strate, are no longer to be found in this House. [[Abg. New builder: you'll never be!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:The transfer window would still be open! ... with the greens!]] One is currently posed in old age homes and the other enjoys its policy-free time, as one hears. Parliament, which has been able to work as efficiently as no day before since the request for distrust – we see it in common applications, all of which mean improvements for the population – will, with today's decision, repair what the government has unfortunately been baffling in the truest sense of the word in recent months, because reason has come back – a word that has already fallen into many speeches. It's just come in. A policy that opposes scientific facts is not a good policy, it is a party policy and not in the sense of the population. We can thus at last help hundreds of thousands of workers in the gastronomy to their right to a smoke-free workplace, just as is and is guaranteed for people everywhere in all other areas. [[Abg. Worm: At McDonald's, Daniela!]] We will protect the health of children and young people in particular. We will protect their health in such a way that they are no longer threatened by the unhealthy smoke of passive smoking when they are taken by irresponsible parents into the smoking area, often toddlers. [[Abg. Worm: This is not allowed!]] Unfortunately, a corresponding proposal for initiative was rejected by me in this direction at a meeting of the Health Committee a few months ago by Schwarz-Blau – and at that time by Red – but today it is good that we go exactly in this direction and also protect the health of children and young people. I also welcome the decision taken by the Constitutional Court in its judgment, which is not to be taken by Parliament and by Members, that we have to fix this in here, which has been decided wrong in recent months, even adverse to health. I hope that this health-political drama will really end with today's day and that we will jointly support and promote the health of the population, rather than, as we have seen, pursuing, for any reason whatsoever, a tactic that is harmful to this health. I've already said it: A policy that is not knowledge-based against all the facts from the hearings from which expert hearings are based is not a good policy. This policy should not be continued. We will end them today, and I would like to thank all those who go along with them for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10017	The next item is Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10042	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Fathers. On the occasion of popular desire, the Health Committee, because it has taken this seriously, has dealt very intensively and comprehensively with smoking and non-smokers. It has been confirmed that there is nothing positive about smoking from a health perspective. [[Abg. Singer: But you have always known that!]] However, I would like to say to my colleague Mrs Rendi-Wagner: We of the ÖVP have always been aware of our responsibility and are still aware of it today. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's why you have already voted differently three times!]] The decision to allow smoking in the gastronomy was based on the fact that there was a freedom of choice for the guests who could decide whether to go to a non-smoker’s room or to a smoker’s room, as well as a freedom of choice for the host, whether to allow smoking or not, and on the other hand, a coalition agreement with the FPÖ. However, we always knew that smoking started very early in youth, often at the age of 14 to 17 years, so we decided with the FPÖ measures especially in the field of youth protection, measures in the sense of prevention and prevention, so that someone would not start smoking at all. Of course, for those who already smoke, it is never too late to make the decision to stop again. It affects smoking behaviour and cigarette consumption, if there are obstacles, the experts in the committee have told us. The ban on smoking in the gastronomy, however, has a positive effect on those who are non-smokers because they avoid passive smoking. It also has a positive impact on those who are employees. We did not want to take the decision of the Constitutional Court. But now the Constitutional Court has not tipped the rule, and therefore we, our group, are voting in favour of the Smoking Protection Act today. But one thing is important to us, and that is clear: Those gastronomy companies that have now, as it were, put confidence in the current rules and made investments that they can no longer use now must not be left alone in the rain. It must also not be held responsible for the gastronomy plants for smokers standing in front of their farm and others in their rest, and the conversion must not put the plants in trouble. I therefore propose an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, colleagues, which essentially contains two points: firstly, a premium for economic operators who have made investments, and secondly, the discharge of the host from liability for the conduct of guests in the open when they smoke. The amendment is complete in writing, and I would ask that it be distributed to Members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[12:04]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10232	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. As far as I know, he has already been distributed to all Members. The next item is Mr Philip Kucher's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10261	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not quite easy according to the statements made today and the arguments on non-smokers protection that have been put forward. One of the most exciting speeches has once again given colleague Worm, who today compared FPÖ with the Gallic village, with Asterix and Obelix. I remembered a little bit: The only parallel that I see with you to Asterix and Obelix is that your obscene has been plumbed pretty neatly into the magic potion and then wanted to sell the whole Gallic village in an exciting state just a short time ago. - I don't know if you remember. This is the only parallel to Asterix and Obelix. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Let's open it up: With all the arguments that are discussed – and I have personally smoked for many years – we all know that smoking is harmful; but I say it personally: You sit in the Health Committee, listen to the hearings, and so I cannot understand how you are now arguing. There are people who are making the effort to pass on to us arguments that tell us personal fates, life stories that are really close to us, and doctors, people who for years have dedicated their lives to this field of research and give us facts, and who really believe that we are taking seriously what they say. But you're putting all this aside. No matter what science wants, no matter what the cancer aid says, no matter what the doctor's chamber says, no matter what all the experts have said: You don't care. That is not the way to act in politics! It takes courage in politics to do the right thing, because if all doctors say we need non-smoking protection when there are people who warn that parents sit in non-smoking areas with the children and believe that they are safe there, but the fine dust concentration is higher than on a heavily driven road, because this washer solution does not work in Austria, then we must do the right thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are people who work in the gastronomy, who often cannot choose it – this has been mentioned more often today. Just these people who work in the gastronomy can't be said: Look for a job somewhere else, because maybe there's no job at all. There are many older people who work there. You were the ones who deleted the 20 000 action, because, as I said, it doesn't matter what happens to these people. You can't work like this! So I really want you to try to think about it in FPÖ, too, so that you can find a way together. I then found it exciting from the ÖVP that, when we try to say respectfully thank you, that you have taken the path so to speak and that you have come to reason, we are then criticized for it. [[Call the FPÖ:Schleiner!]] I can't understand that personally. I'm glad you're going with me in this area today. My request in the direction FPÖ would now be: Let's try to create this shoulder closure together! Sabine Oberhauser fought for it. I am pleased that Pamela Rendi-Wagner has continued this whole, quite strongly, and that we are now together able to strengthen non-smokers protection in Austria. The request, especially towards FPÖ, would really be: Give you a back and try to get rid of these stupid arguments that you have brought as to freedom, them! That's absurd! No one believes that this is about a struggle for freedom. No one believes this! This is not a question of freedom. No one believes this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have brought this example more often: When strache eats his pigbread, he eats the pigbread alone, but not the others. With the same stupid argument, we could say: We don't need a belt anymore, because it restricts freedom. You can cross the children's playground at 100 km/h, because otherwise you can also limit your freedom. You can drive blond fat through the neighborhood by car, because if you are not allowed to drive drunk by car, this also limits freedom. – These are absurd arguments from the FPÖ! Please listen to science and give you a back in the field of non-smokers protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10319	Mrs Mag. Karin Greiner is the next word to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10343	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In the entrance I can welcome guests to our house: On behalf of my colleague Cornelia Ecker I'm the 4th. Class of the Bundesgymnasium Hallein welcome! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really very gratifying that the ban on smoking in the gastronomy is becoming reality today. The facts are undoubtedly on the table: Smoking harms health. Many of you, regardless of the group, have stressed how important prevention is, how important the protection of non-smokers is, how important it is. I am now once again discussing a subject which unfortunately did not find a majority a few weeks ago, but which concerns our youngest ones in society, namely a ban on smoking in children's playgrounds. This is a concern from the Graz Children's Parliament, which was referred to me. If you agree to this request, which I am about to read, and plead for a ban on smoking on children's playgrounds, you will show that you take a) children seriously and b) take democracy seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who is still pleading for a clear regulation, a clear federal law in this causa? – The Graz ÖVP, for example, or many parents, numerous children's lobbys and the communities. They all demand a clear law. Ladies and gentlemen! We can decide on this today, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I appeal to all of you, in particular to colleagues from the ÖVP: Mrs Schwarz, you said earlier that there must be places where one can actually assume that – due to the responsibility one is taking – children's playgrounds are not smoked, for example. We know that health policy is about party politics. Support this request! Let us take care of our shared responsibility as legislators and keep the playgrounds smokeless – for the health of our youngest ones! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10499	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr.in Brigitte Zarfl has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10524	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery and dear spectators watching the debate via live broadcast in ORF III! This is my first opportunity today to speak here to you as the Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection of this new Federal Government, and I can expressly thank you for the confidence you have expressed to me as a member of this government. Reliability and trust are essential guiding principles of the work of this transitional government. Dialogue is an essential instrument for the implementation of these guiding principles, and I am very much committed to using them to gain your confidence and guarantee reliability. We need it in order to achieve Win-win solutions and to be able to implement compromises that are portable for everyone. I am actively engaged in this dialogue, not only with the social partners, but also with the countries, communities and all actors in health, social and employment, because it is essential to bring things forward together for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I also actively seek dialogue with you, ladies and gentlemen, because it is also essential to comply with the principle of the reliability of laws in implementation. I am expressly grateful for the good atmosphere we had during the two orientation talks with health and social speakers last week, and I am looking forward to further exchanges during the coming weeks. I should like to stress once again that I am very pleased to be available for this process of due diligence – and I quote one of your colleagues – in other words, the examination of the strengths and weaknesses of your initiatives. In the end, the result counts, and I think we have a common goal here, namely that the result is one that brings a high quality in the implementation of the laws. Since this is my first opportunity to speak in front of you today, I can also give you a brief view of what I will bring into the implementation or implementation of the next weeks and months in my portfolio – a small focus of my statements is on health, because I am now referring to an agenda item in the field of health: The area of vaccination and vaccination was an essential part of the activities of the last federal governments. We will prepare a novel to the Health Telematics Act, with which the electronic vaccination will then come into the piloting processes in the coming year. So we will go into review in autumn, so that my successor, my successor, can make this decision together with you. We will continue to work on activities and decision-making bases in the field of care – these are also important issues that have been dealt with by the previous governments, but which will certainly continue to deal with subsequent governments. We will send a number of reports to the National Council – the food report is already with you, others will follow in autumn – in order to provide you with the basis for making decisions. And I will also adopt the necessary regulations in my field of effect, which are necessary for legislation already adopted – for example, the Social Insurance Organization Act or others. The e-Card Regulation and other regulations will be launched so that implementation can be implemented in a timely and without major problems. Finally, at the end of my speech in my role as Minister of Health, I should like to express my express thanks to all of you for providing such broad support for this initiative on non-smokers protection. I thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10591	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, on the proposal for a resolution (Doc. 859/A) by Mr Pamela-Wagner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Gerald Loacker, Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues and colleagues included draft law. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag.a Greiner, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz, my fellow Members, and Amendment tabled by Mr Kucher, Mr Schwarz, Mr Mag. Loacker, Holzinger Vogtenhuber, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members Mag.a Greiner, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional amendment or amendment which includes amendments to the proposal for an initiative. I call on the ladies and gentlemen to give this amendment and supplementary amendment an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Schwarz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional amendment or amendment which concerns the amendment of Z4 and the insertion of new paragraphs 5 to 7. Whoever agrees to this amendment, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Deputies Kucher, Black, Mag. Loacker, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of Z 4. If you vote in favour of this amendment, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law was therefore adopted by a majority in third reading. [[12:20:14]] 3rd. Point Request by Members August Wöginger, Werner Neubauer, BA, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farmers' Social Insurance Act (905/A) 4. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Klaus Fürlinger, Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (695/A) 5. Point Request by Mr Norbert Sieber, Mr Werner Neubauer, Mr BA, Mr Colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Pensions Commission Act (780/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10723	We come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to these applications, a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been set for the reporting period up to 1. ==References== Agenda items 3 to 5 do not require oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr Josef Muchich. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10762	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a SPÖ social speaker, I would like to take advantage of the time to express my views on these three agenda items, on how our voting will be, because I think it makes sense to play with open cards and to justify voting behaviour. Agenda item 5: We will not vote for the extension of the Pension Insurance Commission because we believe it makes no sense to provide or extend this Commission even more with additional persons. We believe that the Pensions Commission has much more important things to do in terms of tasks and objectives – as in the future our pensions must be designed. Agenda item 4: The legislative initiative with the aim of ensuring that lawyers who are members of the board of their lawyers in the event of illness are not subject to partial health and accident insurance under the ASVG, we will give consent. However, we, the SPÖ, have already been very surprised that, on the one hand, FPÖ and ÖVP on the other, are always talking about a combination of structures and also of carriers, and, on the other hand, they are doing so. Exceptions are always good – that is the SPÖ’s position – if they are designed in such a way that an insured group – workers, employers – is financed by itself and does not need to be spent additional funds on taxpayers. For this reason, we are eager to see if you, ladies and gentlemen, will agree to our request for item 3 on the agenda when it comes to maintaining the operational health telephone according to its current form, as they do not cost the State and the taxpayer a cent. For the request concerning minimum pensions: We – ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ – agree on the following: Yes, we stand at 1 200 Euro net minimum pension for individuals, yes, we stand at 1 500 Euro net minimum pension for couples. But what distinguishes us is how we count times. That's the first point. In your application for 40 years of work, you have provided for the calculation of up to 60 months of leave time – we do not consider that to be quite fair. Today, we will decide that the law will also include full leave periods, up to 24 months per child. Make your legislative proposal You put a lid on it by saying: a maximum of five years. Whatever distinguishes us, the position is that we have always assumed it and have said: We want 40 years of insurance. Why? – It cannot be if, for example, a minimum pensioner is torn out of work by illness or a minimum pensioner is torn out of the working world by unemployment, that then they do not have the chance to reach this minimum pension. Our proposal was also another one that we have always justified accordingly. The second point that distinguishes us from your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, is that we have said we want to continue negotiations on the security of this minimum pension as regards the exportability of this pension bonus in EU countries. When the Ministry of Social Affairs and its experts pointed out very clearly in our debate last Thursday that an uncertainty factor concerning the exportability of this pension bonus in EU countries was included, our offer was clear. [[Abg. New builder: It's not!]] I really look into two representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ: We have come to the view that we will look at this once again by Monday, examine it with regard to the legal certainty of non-exportability and then decide on it. Unfortunately, I received the information about the weekend that it should stay the way it is. We take note of this, but are for this 1,200 euros or 1 500 euros minimum pension. But today we want to start an attempt to continue these talks, in the form of a referral request. We say: Please consider this – taking all the risks of this exportability into account, additional costs of up to 360 million euros plus – until the decision on 25 July. September together again! That is why we make the referral request. I invite you all to accept this request because it makes sense. It cannot be that you are here during the first debate and say: Respect for debt brakes, we must look at how we deal with this so sparingly! if you decide a few hours later to make such a request with such uncertainty regarding the export of social benefits to EU countries. For this reason, we invite you to accept this referral request.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10801	Mr Klubobmann August Wöginger is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10826	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today we bring the minimum pension on rail, a higher minimum pension for those people who have long contribution periods, according to the principle: Performance must also pay off. There are thousands of people in Austria who receive a compensation allowance, although they have worked their lives. They earned less, were active in sectors where they did not earn much, or worked part-time – but they were always employed and employed. Today, we bring a minimum pension for 40 years of contribution of 1,200 euros net for individuals and 1,500 euros net for couples, i.e. when the family code is applicable, on rail. This is a great achievement of family and social policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Neubauer and Mr Stefan.]] For the accusation that there is a residual risk: Yes, a residual risk also exists in the arrangement that we have jointly decided, 1 000 euros with 30 years of contributions, because we refer to the same factors, and that is also regulated in the law. It is tax-financed – that is the first important point – it is independent of the amount of contribution, and it is aimed at domestic residence – these are the three essential factors that ensure that this compensation allowance, this bonus is not exportable. We assume that otherwise the remaining risk would also be given in the other regulation. It is not possible to exclude a hundred percent, but since the old regulation has kept it, we assume that this regulation also holds true. It is enshrined in the law, it is also contained in the explanatory remarks. I'll read this shortly. ‘As the proposed compensatory allowance or compensation allowance Pension bonus linked to the existence of a long period of insurance, but not derived from the amount of contributions made, is expected to be as little subject to the export of benefits as the compensation allowance.’ Whether it is called compensation plus or pension bonus, is secondary, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The three factors are important, and we assume that it is not exportable, because we do not want to do so. But we want those people who have worked for a long time to get a higher pension here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also thank the FPÖ for being able to do so together. It is also provided for in the medium-term budget; that is what I would like to say. We have also presented this together in mid-May, and that is why the legislative process is now also present. We will decide this law. In the insurance period one word: We have responded to the long-term insurance scheme. Five years in childhood education and one year in the presence and civil service, this is exactly the same as in the long-term insured scheme, since we already want the contribution periods to be the priority so that those people who have worked consistently – with these two exceptions – also benefit from this increased minimum pension. Some 45 000 people in Austria will benefit from this. I'm from a border crossing region in the Inn district. We have the situation there that there are many people in the pension area, for example, who have worked in Germany for a lifetime, and there is the difference between the German and our pensions. The German pension is paid 12 times a year. A large number of people thus receive this compensation allowance, since they do not even benefit from 1 000 euros of pension for continuous work, and if one speaks of married couples, then they have the compensation allowance for families. This is the truth when comparing the systems. It is an important measure in the field of social policy, ladies and gentlemen. Today we decide to pay this bonus for a long time in the sense of those people who have worked for a long time, because they deserved that the state also expresses the necessary recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10889	Mr Mag. Gerald Loackeris the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e10913	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Everyone has an undivided interest in the fact that people who have worked for a long time receive a pension from which they can also live well. This must ensure the system, and this must never depend on whether it is time for election. What the proposed text includes, however, are a few horse feet. The first is that the principle of insurance is lifted entirely, quite massively from the fishing industry. Let me give you a few examples: In principle, in the pension system, the principle is that every month longer work increases the pension by a little. With a fixed link to 40 years of contributions, a lot of people will get into the situation that additional working months will no longer pay off for them; they will have the same amount of pension, whether they have worked for 40, 40,5 or 41 years. Of course, this is not a measure that helps to keep people in work longer. Injustices will also arise. For example, those who work 39 years and then have to stop for health reasons may have paid a lot of contributions in the 39 years, but he will not get this pension bonus, which a person who has worked for 40 years, but was 40 years in part-time and paid very little contributions. – This will lead to injustices. The extreme examples that the Ministry has also calculated result in someone who comes to 800 euros of pension due to his own contributions ultimately having more than one who comes to 2 000 euros gross pension due to his own contributions. Such distortion can be achieved with your system. Klubobmann Wöginger has said that there are many in Upper Austria who have worked in Germany for a number of years, and of course such European cross-border regulations, whether someone has 40 years of work or not to take German times into account. This applies, of course, not only to German years, but also to Romanian, Bulgarian and Slovak years and means that someone who has worked in Romania for 35 years and five years in Austria will also receive this pension bonus, as the ÖVP can, as Klubobmann Wöginger can still write so beautifully into the law that it will not be exportable. All experts agree that you can take this pension bonus back home. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Professors Obwexer, Marhold and Mazal said in agreement: Of course you can export it. – That is, the majority of what we decide today will not land with Austrian pensioners but abroad. And it is remarkable that the parties who have not granted the money to the children of the unemployed, namely, that children abroad have given much less money, now want to transfer much larger amounts to pensioners. There are other solutions, however, and that is why we have tabled an amendment. When it comes to a social concern, when it comes to pensioners who really have to live on the minimum, take this 50 million euros into their hands and give them to those who actually live from this minimum, namely the compensation allowance. If you increase the compensation allowance instead of introducing this pension bonus, you have several advantages: In particular, women benefit from the compensation allowance, mostly men will benefit from your pension bonus; the compensation allowance is proven and legally unexportable, your pension bonus will be exportable; in the compensation allowance, there is an examination of the social need that does not exist with your pension bonus; the compensation allowance only gets who really needs the money because otherwise he has too little to live. So if you honestly support a social concern, you would increase the compensation allowance and not sell any elective gifts, which can then be well explained to the people at the main table and presented as a gift. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11089	The amendment was explained in the main guidelines and was also distributed and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the report by Mr Werner Neubauer. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11113	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today is a good day for the diligent and skilled people in this country, because today this Parliament will take a decision that will also take account of this zeal. I think it was right and important to include in the government programme a provision that corresponds to a liberal demand that Herbert Kickl, Dagmar Belakovich and I have been a senior observer for ten years, namely to make a minimum pension for those people who have worked in Austria for 40 years. This is decided today: EUR 1 200 or EUR 1 500 net minimum pension. I think that is a milestone in Austrian social policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Loacker, this is a ten-year-old demand from the Freedom Party – precisely for this reason it is not right for us to adopt a electoral sugar today – that is, ten years ago I first raised this demand, not from this, but from the speaker's desk of the House at the ring – and it is a pity that at that time – because of the blockade of the social and Democracy – not already implemented, because we were told the untruth most of the time by Federal Minister Hundstorfer, in the wake of the Federal Minister Stöger. For ten years it has been claimed that this reform costs 8 billion euros. As has been pointed out in the calculation under the new Federal Government, it was a crack – against what has been explained to us for ten years. The damage to pensioners over the ten years in which they have not received it now amounts to 50 000 euros per pensioner. And that unfortunately has to do with social democracy. I'm sorry for the people who do this money today, but no matter what, from 1st century onwards. In January 2020, 45 000 people benefit from this decision today. We help pensioners become less bitters of politics. The decision will help to reduce poverty among pensioners and thus make it possible to age in dignity – through the Freedom Party. Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11167	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11189	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mr Neubauer has claimed that I have said the untruth. – honourable Member, quite clearly: Who was the Federal Minister when we introduced a compensation allowance of EUR 1 000? Who was that? – I can tell you: Alois Stäger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: That doesn't change the fact!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: Who is Alois Stäger?]] Secondly, We have made it clear what it is all about, namely: There's been a fall of sin. In 2003, under the government of Schüssel/FPÖ, age poverty was systematically introduced by massively reducing old-age pensions by making life throughput. This has affected the women in Austria most, they have received less pension. [[Abg. Neubauer: You could have taken it back ten years! Ten years you've had time, you haven't done anything!]] Not slowly, but step by step, pensions have become lower. – I have fought in 2016 to ensure that we are able to improve compensation allowances, because an objective is very important for social democracy: We want pensions that go to life, and it was the social democracy that has always fought for people to get a pension with which they also have their outcome! The compensatory allowances have only made it possible to reach adequate pensions. As Mr Muchitsch has said very clearly, life and career careers are not linear. There are situations when they will be interrupted that unemployment comes, that disease comes, and especially for those who get sick, who become unemployed, there must also be a right to a corresponding pension. Maybe a little bit to Members of the Wöginger, when he says: We do not call that compensation allowance, but we call it bonus. – I can only follow what has been said in this regard: Bonus sounds like it's a sugar. In reality, this is a compensation allowance for those people who get too little pension to be able to live on it. Bonus sounds like you have to ask and beg and be grateful afterwards. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! People who have worked in Austria who have earned a pension, who do not need to ask and beg, but the compensation allowance must be guaranteed for them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important for me to make an amendment on the subject of occupational health telephones. They have tabled a legislative proposal to disband the occupational health telephone, and I have tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Rainer Wimmer, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Keck, Mr Knes, Mr Stöger, Mr Ing. Vogl, colleagues on this motion 905/A, namely with a view to amending the legal provisions relating to the occupational health phone, because under these legal provisions, all occupational healthcare telephones would be deleted without replacement, because only the employer – and not the people affected by it – can decide whether an occupational health insurance fund will be dissolved and transferred to the ÖGK. “The insured workers can only watch and have no influence on their decision, although they also make a big contribution to the existence of this BKK” – the company’s health telephone – “do and identify with your “insurance” enormously. In the voestalpine Group alone there are 3 operational health telephones, all of which are located in the Styria: The Voestalpine Railway Systems with approx. 13,000 eligible operational health insurance fund Kapfenberg with approx. 9.900 Rightful operational health fund tent path with approx. 4,000 entitled persons Another operational health insurance fund consists of Niederösterreich: ==References====External links== 2.500 entitled persons’ They stand well, they can be preserved, and I would ask you to give this amendment your consent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11472	The amendment to the occupational health telephone was explained in the main guidelines and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dr.in Bogner-Strauß has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11496	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home and at the gallery! With the pension bonus, the new People's Party is going its way consistently and responsibly, because we want to relieve in particular those who have a low income. The former Federal Government has already put in place many measures. I can mention the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions and, above all, what was very important to me as a family minister at the time and is at the heart of the family bonus. Many people, many families already feel the relief from the family bonus, as it is paid monthly with the salary; the other families can enjoy the family bonus with the tax compensation at the end of the year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we would have liked to implement further measures, but nevertheless we have always taken care to write a zero deficit, not to leave our children and grandchildren with new debts. There will be no sugars with us, because we as the People's Party are not turning our backs on our principles or our values, just because a new election is coming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The planned pension bonus is already included in the budget. We have already heard it, but I would like to repeat it: 40 years of contribution – new 1 200 euros net per month instead of 995 euros. This brings you, dear pensioners and pensioners, 2 800 euros per year more. Also for couples, there is 1 500 euros net in the future, as before 1 260 euros; this is also 3 300 euros more per year. What is very important to me as a former Minister of Family Affairs and also as a Minister of Women is that we take five years into account in childhood education. In addition, civil and present services are included. More than 40 000 people benefit from this, more than half of which are women, and this is of course particularly important to me as a women's spokesperson of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Women are twice as often affected by poverty as men. That is why we need to pool our forces to protect women from poverty. We have a pension difference of 40 percent, a wage difference of 20 percent. That is why I am speaking for this pension bonus and also for the automatic pension split. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: This will increase the distance!]] I do not understand that the SPÖ does not agree with this request today. I would like to quote the party president – who is not present at the moment – who meant that politics is there to improve people's living conditions. – This is what makes this request by bringing women, in particular, out of poverty. Indeed, politics is not to be carried out on the back of people, but is to be made for them. The SPÖ is currently far away, and the people in Austria have long recognized this.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11557	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Irmgard Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11581	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Present and future pensioners – and hopefully all of them when they experience it – are particularly interested in two things: How much do I get pension? And: Will I get this pension in the future? The safety of the pension system is a very essential issue, and it is not by chance that this is always a matter, especially in election periods. Elections were won with the promise to ensure the safety of pensions. Letters to pensioners are especially popular in the pre-election period. It is therefore only logical that an old-age insurance commission was set up by law in 2017, but unfortunately it has not been established so far. This Pension Insurance Commission has the task of carrying out a permanent monitoring of the pension system, both of the pension insurance institution and of the civil servants' pensions. This Pensions Commission is to submit an annual short- or medium-term report on the financial viability and on the taxability of the system and on a long-term report every third year. These are information that is very crucial to be able to assess whether this pension system, which we have, is future-proof, unique. The Pensions Commission should also propose measures if this is necessary in order to ensure the safety of the pension system. Unfortunately, this Commission has not yet been constituted. NEOS made a request to the then Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs last year, and in December 2018 the answer came that unfortunately there is still a search for a chairman. – It seems that they have not been found to date, because the Commission has not yet established itself. [[Abg. New builder: It's not true! That's not right! I can tell you name and address!]] – Look at the website, it still stands out; I looked at it in the early morning! – Regardless of that, the law should now be amended by amending the voting rights and the composition. The experience gained from the Commission's activity so far cannot be decisive, because there is no such thing as this. The current discussion on the issue of how high the burden of the minimum pension, which is to be decided today, shows, however, how important this pension scheme is, how important it would be to have this expertise at your disposal. Mrs. Federal Minister, you might have been able to appoint a chairman and could therefore perhaps rely on this expertise. [[towards Federal Minister Zarfl]] That would be necessary, because we have heard today from the Minister of Finance that responsible policy is evidence-based policy, policy based on facts – and unfortunately this policy cannot be claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11624	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11648	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The main topic of this discussion is clearly the pension bonus or the minimum pension of 1,200 euros and 1 500 euros respectively. I also feel that this is a very encouraging sign, because we are making clear the importance that people have in our society, who contribute through contribution payments or also through karenz periods. I am therefore very pleased that this can be implemented today. It has already been spoken of by constituencies or similar. – That’s simple and just wrong! I think even those who have said this know that it is first of all a long-term demand of the FPÖ – not short-term before the election – and that the second is already in the government programme and has already been included. That is to say, it is not an election sugar, but simply the implementation of our liberal policy and, in that case, the policy pursued jointly with the EIA, i.e. the former government policy. However, I would like to point out another smaller point in this discussion, namely that the General Social Security Act makes it clear that the activity of lawyers who are in larger communities is an independent activity. There have been discussions over and over again, this has been a grey area. Anyone who deals with such things knows that it is very unpleasant if it is not clear whether it is an employee relationship or an independent activity, and that this may lead to unpleasant lateral consequences. That is why it was also a concern on the part of the solicitor's office, which I very much liked to take up that clarification here, because it is essential for the lawyer's professional image to be self-employed, and that is why it is also only logically that it is also seen in accordance with social security law. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Fürlinger.]] So I am glad that we can clean up this unpleasant state of life by putting it into practice today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11693	Next speaker: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11718	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised by some of the statements I have heard here, especially the statement by Mr Bogner-Strauß, who has stated here that she is surprised that the SPÖ will not agree to this request. – That is not true, colleague Bogner-Strauß! Either you have not listened to our colleague Muchich, what he has said, or you are on the same trip as your party chairman: that you put allegations about the SPÖ into space that simply do not vote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Muchitsch has explained quite clearly: We will agree to this request, but the framework conditions for it should be renegotiated, because some of the framework conditions do not fit from our point of view. He said he would make a referral request so that we could still negotiate the framework conditions. We're ready to talk because some things are still clear. In our opinion, this is still very, very important. An increase in the minimum pension, to agree to a measure, is of course that you do such a thing, colleague Neubauer, especially when the individual pensioners have available 1 200 euros and the families 1 500 euros, but a problem for us are the contribution years instead of the insurance years. If you look at a normal course of work, you have to find that there are very many downtimes, especially in production areas – not in office areas; I really say: in production areas – where more and more sick people are at risk of unemployment, because the companies are locked up, and so on. All these are times that are not included – and then to reach 40 years of contribution is of course something that is very, very difficult to manage. We believe that while it is a first correct step to increase minimum pensions, we naturally need to make changes in the future. And one of the changes would be – important and also good – to look at the next pension adjustments, for for example, because it is the pensioners who need a good adjustment because they are the group that keeps the economic engine at the location Austria through its contributions, through their purchases and so on, ladies and gentlemen! As we are currently at pensions, I also have the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an amendment which needs to be discussed in detail under Agenda items 10 and 11 because there are motions for resolutions. We believe that now that the Social Security Act is being opened, it is necessary to make this request to bring about an immediate solution for people working hard in Austria. The problem of these hardworking people is that, while they do over 30, 40 years of hard work, special contributions are paid by the service providers – but they are then sent to pension with the highest of all pension deposits at 57 years of age. We believe that if extra contributions are already paid, these discounts should be removed. We now have the opportunity – this call in particular to the FPÖ – to regulate immediately with this change of law, with this amendment, so that, with 1.1.2020, these special pensioners – these are really hard-working people – will finally receive the pension that is also due to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:00]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11846	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e11873	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Keck, you may need to clarify the content of the speeches a little more clearly, and for all of us it is obvious whether you agree or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] In this respect, I must protect my colleague Bogner-Straust. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the other hand, we have automatically assumed that you do not agree to this request, because you have never agreed in the past when it comes to redundancies for citizens, whether by reducing unemployment insurance contributions, whether by creating the family bonus or many other measures, but even if it has been more justice, such as the need-oriented minimum guarantee, in the case of social assistance New. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] You have never been there, and therefore we have automatically provided that you do not share this discharge of people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has already been said on the part of my previous speakers. We are consistently implementing this measure, which has already been fixed in the reign of the turquoise-blue government and which is also budget-covered, because of all our actions, the working people, especially if they are in retirement, have always been able to relieve them accordingly. And it was already said: With this minimum pension of 1 200 euros at 40 years of contributions, a discharge of 2 800 euros per year and a married couple, if a spouse has 40 years of contributions, will be granted a discharge of 3 300 euros per year. This is a clear discharge that will be implemented by 2020. [[Abg. Vogl: This is not a discharge, that is more money...!]] It is only good and right to bring in more justice. People have felt it unfair that the person who has worked for his life does not end up getting much more out than a relative of minimum security, as the socialist system provides. Therefore this discharge, for he who has worked for his life should also be relieved accordingly. That's our access and that's what we're doing. I should like to add to this law the amendment tabled by Members August Wöginger, Werner Neubauer, colleagues on request 905/A concerning ‘a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act’. This request has been distributed, so I do not need to present it in terms of content. These are essentially technical adjustments. In terms of content, there is still a clarification to ensure that this new regulation does not result in any deterioration in anyone. That's still going to be clarified. I would ask you to agree. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[13:03]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12284	The application has just been presented, distributed and negotiated in the main guidelines. Mr Loacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12311	Mr Bogner-Strauß said that this pension bonus was particularly important for women. I'm actually correcting: The pension bonus will benefit mostly men. This is also said by the pension insurance institution, which can be read in the “standard”. So of the 45,000 people, about 2,700 will be women. The pension insurance institution says: “From the now announced higher minimum pension from 40 years of contribution, women will hardly be able to benefit from the PVA.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12344	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12365	Madam President. Minister! High house! An exciting discussion on the theme Minimum pension EUR 1 200 net. It is already interesting to follow this up and find that it is now obvious that the FPÖ, the liberals, has needed it, after the minimum pensions in this area have not been moving for many years and decades. I think it must be pointed out again and again that, without our efforts, nothing would have been possible in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I can say from my own experience: This theme moves people out very massively. I have countless conversations where people want to know: How do I get EUR 1 200 net? – It is very important to emphasize the word net. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] How do I get to these 1,200 euros net?, this is what people who are already in retirement or just before the pension because it will be a huge improvement for them. Now I come back very briefly to the NEOS, to Mr Loacker – who always believes only his expert –: We believe that very massively – and I also give the ÖVP right – women will benefit. I can explain this very briefly: For these 40 years, there is the possibility to count five years of child rearing. That means, as a woman, I only need 35 years of contributions or years of insurance. Just a little note: In the new pension account there is no longer this differentiation between insurance periods and retirement periods. These 35 years, in order to explain this too, include part-time work. And that's just the jumping point: that many women work part-time after the birth of a child, work half-days, and this half-day work counts as a full-time contribution month as well as full-day work. That was very important to us: that people who work for over 35 years or in the case of 40 years, but perhaps only in part-time, finally reach a pension of 1,200 euros net, with which you can also survive in Austria – no luxury at all. What Mr Neubauer said was true: The SPÖ's Social Ministers have repeatedly said that this is not financially feasible and not feasible. – The FPÖ is in the government for almost a year and a half, and it was and is feasible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even a small note – I would like to say this already because it is an unresolved problem; unfortunately, God is now no longer in the government, I hope we will have government responsibility again; I would then ask all the political groups to go with it: Unfortunately, then ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens, who want to go back to Parliament, recorded the luxury pensions in the constitutional order. That is, we still have – there are also some here in the hall – pensioners with a pension of 12 000, 17 000 or 20 000 euros per month. We liberals will continue to fight for these luxury pensions to be reduced at last, but the normal working population will receive a correspondingly higher pension. Thank you. (Applause from the FPÖ)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12440	I call Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12456	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We today adopt, among other things, the Federal Law, which amends the Pensions Commission Act. The Commission on long-term pension insurance was a body founded in 2000 by representatives of the National Council, the social partners, pensioners and complementary experts. The Commission had the task of calculating the benchmark for a pension adjustment for the following calendar year. In addition, the Commission produced an opinion on the budgetary management of statutory pension insurance for the next five years and a report on the long-term development and financialability of statutory pension insurance. One of the major criticisms of the Commission was that due to its size – including the co-operative experts – it was difficult to reach joint decisions. The Commission's ability to act was therefore very limited. After many years of discussion, it was agreed in 2016 to launch a new and significantly reduced pension commission with 1.1.2017. This Commission is now responsible for monitoring both statutory pension insurance and public service pensions separately. New to this is the fact that the Pensions of the Public Service are now also reflected by the Pensions Commission. The adjustment factor, which is relevant for the annual adjustment of pensions, is now no longer defined by the Pension Insurance Commission, but directly by the experts in the Social Ministry. The challenge for the Social Ministry is to find an expert in economics, social sciences or labour and social law, which would then be ordered in agreement with the BKA and the Ministry of Finance. However, this has not yet been achieved. However, as the adjustment factor for pensions is no longer determined by the Commission, but as mentioned directly by the Ministry, the impact of this situation is practically without consequence, as the chairman of the old Commission, Rudolf Müller, has pointed out. How will the Pensions Commission come together? – Members with voting rights will be members in the future: one expert from the Federal Chamber of Labour and the WKÖ, two experts from the ÖGB, one expert in the Industrial Association, one expert in the Presidential Conference of the LKÖ, two experts from the Austrian Senior Council and the Federal Youth Office, one expert from the Federal Ministry of Public Service and Sport, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Economics and the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. These are a total of 14 members entitled to vote, which is much less than in the previous Commission. In addition, there are members without voting rights – these are the experts of the Pension Insurance Institute and the Insurance Institute of Public Servants, one of the envoys of the Austrian Institute for Economic Research and the Institute for Higher Studies and two experts in Economic and Social Sciences and Labour and Social Law respectively. We see, therefore, that we will have a Commission occupied with experts and greatly reduced, which, after its constitution, will fulfil its tasks without doubt to our full satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12501	Mr Fürlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12522	High Bureau! Dear ministers! Not long before the request concerning the assignment of lawyers to the ASVG or not: In fact, this is not an exception we create – this has been mentioned in the debate by Mr Muchich – but there has been a very clear provision in the GSVG since the compulsory insurance scheme for all self-employed for the professions that they can opt into the GSVG, into the ASVG or into group health insurance. That's all it's all about. And the lawyers who are registered can choose between these three insurance variants with all the consequences. There is a clear delimitation to the servant here, because a lawyer is always a classical self-employed person as a self-employed person. However, it has been true that those lawyers who were acting as so-called substitution lawyers for larger firms who did their work there and were only able to settle parts of their own files there, because they were using the structure and also took over files from others there for processing, in an examination according to ASVG, in which wage testing and tax inspection were apparently classified as a service provider. This is a completely missing classification, because a lawyer as an independent in terms of his understanding and standing rights can never be a servant and therefore cannot necessarily be integrated into the ASVG regime. That is what we clarify with this law, ladies and gentlemen. We thus eliminate the ambiguities that would not have been necessary. It would be nice if we could generally get the term of service in such a way that we can save ourselves in the future such classification procedures, which are not acceptable for the alleged servant or for the service provider. This will be a project for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12556	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. So I announce: Since extensive amendments or supplementary amendments have been tabled in the short term and a short break in the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the next item on the agenda. [[13:15:11]] 6. Point Request by Mr Norbert Sieber, Mr Edith Mühlberghuber, colleagues on a federal law amending the Childcare Act and adopting a law on the establishment of a Young Family Fund (816/A) 7. Point Request by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Father's Carenz Act and the Land Labor Act 1984 (576/A) 8. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law which amends the Mutterschutzgesetz 1979 – MschG, the Federal Law, which establishes Karenz for Fathers (Father-Karenzgesetz – VKG), as well as the Federal Law on the Principles for the Regulation of Labour Law in Agriculture and Forestry (Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984 – LAG) (919/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12625	We now come to Agenda items 6 to 8, on which the debates are being held under one. As regards applications 816/A and 919/A, a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs was set at 1. ==References== As regards the application 576/A, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs had a deadline for reporting to 13. ==References== Agenda items 6 to 8 do not require oral reporting. That is why we are entering the debate. Mrs Bogner-Strauß is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12655	Madam President. Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home and at the gallery! First of all, let me address the two requests for the paternal month or for a flexible paternal leave. Fatherhood is extremely important to me as a mother of three children. This requires a social rethinking and a modern family image. That is why all the initiatives that increase father participation in Austria are important, because we still need to catch up. However, the SPÖ's request for the papal month is not intended to end and constitutionally questionable, the experts tell me. The SPÖ application is inflexible because the fathers have exactly 28 days to claim the papal month. Furthermore, these 28 days must be consumed within the maternity period after birth. There is a disparity between the fathers, for some mothers are in maternity protection for two months, and other mothers are in maternity protection for three months. This depends on whether you have a natural birth or an imperial cut. In addition, the SPÖ's application requires only a common household of father and child. In my opinion, however, the papal age aims to strengthen the bond between father, mother and child. That is why, together with the NEOS, we are pursuing a different approach, namely the request for flexible paternal leave. With this request, each father can take 28 days of papal month, but we rely on freedom of choice and flexibility. If a father cannot take the full 28 days after birth – we think about tourism, self-employed people or agriculture; I grew up on a farm and I know, in the harvest season it is often not possible to take 28 days off – he is free to take ten days off, for example. The SPÖ's request, ladies and gentlemen, would deny these fathers the papal month. In addition, the request of the NEOS and of us allows mother and father to go together in Karenz twice. This is, of course, an improvement in the compatibility of family and work. In addition, karenz breaks can be better coordinated and coordinated in the family association. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, dear families, you see, the SPÖ's application is little thought out and offers families little flexibility. ==References====External links== Furthermore, September 2019 will probably not be possible, as this will require a major reform of the childcare allowance. In other words, the fathers do have one. September legal claim to the papal month, but probably not yet budgetary compensation. I would also like to say that today we are bringing in a change to the Childcare Act and building a Youth Family Fund. You know the childcare allowance is used to replace the income after the birth of a child. That is why there are also very clearly regulated limits of commitment, and self-employed people have had two years to reach this limit. Many self-employed people have missed this deadline, which is why we are now extending this period, because these families have now partially become tough cases, although they have not exceeded the limit of their earnability, but still have to repay the childcare allowance. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What about the crisis caretakers? The crisis caretakers don't get anything!]] In addition, there is now a young family fund, and from it we can compensate again for those self-employed who have paid back the childcare allowance. In the sense of these requests, I would like the FPÖ to go along with our request for flexible paternal leave, because it takes more flexibility to cover the needs of parents and children more fully and easily. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12692	Mrs Sandler is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12713	Madam President. Women Federal Ministers! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! We will agree to the proposal on the amendment of the childcare allowance, since we do not want to play tactical games on the back of young people and young parents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is quite, very important for us that the limit of merit be increased, but – and I say this quite clearly and clearly here – that can only be a first step. Of course, it must also be possible for self-employed persons to be “punished” even if, for example, they fail to comply with the time limits in the parent-child investigation. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Since it is a matter of heart to me, we will naturally continue to fight for the crisis care parents to receive the childcare allowance from the first day, because it is important and because it is correct. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that a quick solution is important for self-employed and crisis caregivers and would make their lives much easier. It must be possible to make the money available for it. I come to another subject. You have in the current hour – how should I say? – a self-congratulation, how well you deal with tax money, staged. And then there is the family festival, 1. May 2019, according to the media reports, I quote literally: “ÖVP celebrates Family Festival in Vienna”. “While coalition partners FPÖ held a rally at the Urfahraneer Jahrmarkt in Linz on the state celebration day and the SPÖ marched on the Vienna Rathausplatz, ÖVP invited German Chancellor Kurz to the family festival in Schönbrunner Schlosspark.” But while the rallys of FPÖ and SPÖ were dedicated party events, the ÖVP had its feast financed by the taxpayer through the ministries. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is unheard of! Yeah, how are they?]] In addition, there are media reports that say that the orders were awarded to long-term members of the ÖVP, for example to a municipal council in Lower Austria. Now we know that the costs have amounted to 230 000 euros, and I wonder if the provisions of the Federal Procurement Act have been observed. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] A Leobener lucky and thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:28]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12951	The applications which have just been submitted are properly submitted, duly supported and are under negotiation. [[Call at the SPÖ: This is a command of the hour!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ: This is a good request!]] Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e12990	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The application concerning the change of child care allowance and a law on the establishment of a young family fund require not only an adjustment of the amount of child care allowance for dependent child care, but also a retroactive extension of the time limit for self-employed workers who have not all-year-old received child care benefits and have mistakenly failed to break their income in accordance with the law. In practice, it has been found that the time limit of parents has often been mistakenly missed. For this reason, those who have had to repay child care money in the past should receive support from an extra youth family fund. In concrete terms, we are committed to increasing the amount of payment of income dependent childcare allowance from 6 800 to 7 300 euros per year from 2020 onwards. The same applies to the child care allowance which single parents may apply for under certain conditions. In this way, according to the The application ensures that the persons concerned can continue to pursue minor employment during the child benefit period. Independent employees who have only received child care benefits for part of the year, regardless of whether in a flat-rate or an income-dependent variant, are expected to receive up to 2025 time by the draft law to prove, by means of a corresponding breakdown of their income, that the applicable earnings limits have not been exceeded. However, this applies to births from the beginning of 2012 to February 2017. At the same time, a law is set up at the Social Insurance Institute of the Industrial Economy of the Youth Family Fund, which is worth around 1 million euros. This fund supports self-employed persons who have had to pay child care benefits on their own due to a lack of time. . I call for the approval of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13032	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13054	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are currently living in Austria in politically moving times – and there, however, one or the other can be moved. On the one hand, we are talking about the repair of a law on the need for young entrepreneurs to repay child care money because of bureaucratic traps. Since the Unos had started a petition in the Chamber of Commerce, as we were behind it with questions and requests, this can now be rehabilitated. Entrepreneurships are provided with sufficient horror every day, they do not also need additional cases in child care. It is very nice that a majority could be found here for this repair. On the other hand, we are talking about proposals for the papal month. It is already seen that we are not yet so far in this House that we can talk about a competition of the best ideas when it comes to the different loads on men and women with the factor of child rearing. Of course, you can do it as the SPÖ does, and simply pick up something to a complicated system and put it on top of it for another papal month; and since the top is always great, the FPÖ likes to join. However, we could also have considered whether we would have liked to take a new look at the issue of childcare at any given time, in principle, how the karenz regulations are currently being set up. There needs to be more flexibilization, as we need to give mothers and fathers more opportunities to adapt the time of leave to each other, to the family needs, to the retirement of the father-in-law and to other things as the family needs. We need more father participation, we need more flexibility and more individual freedom. That is why, together with the ÖVP, we have put in our own request how such a papal possibility could be introduced into a flexible karenz model. Thank you to the ÖVP for the constructive cooperation on this matter! Since it does not look like a majority in favour of this proposal, we have also tabled an amendment to the SPÖ Papamonth amendment. People need No more social demands, they need a flexible system, and our amendment aims at this flexibility. If that comes as you suggest, then there is no flexibility, then there will be more costs, an additional month, additional legal provisions that no human needs, and additional bureaucracy. I am seeking agreement on a simpler solution that gives families more flexibility and more freedom. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[13:35]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13286	The two applications have been explained, distributed or distributed in the main guidelines and are under negotiation. Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13310	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! We are discussing three very crucial issues here today, whose implementation has not yet had any prospect of success. Originally, there were three reasons for this: Old Chancellor Kurz, Federal Minister other than Bogner-Strauß and the order book of the ÖVP, in which E like Euro still stands before F as a family. Large donors are clearly in advantage and we have learned this in recent years. However, after the end of 32 years of continuous participation in the government of the EIA, it is now possible to carry out together precisely those successes that we are discussing here today. The right to a papal month is only one example, namely, a legal claim available not only to officials in the public service, but also to those who work in the private sector. By the way, the time of distraction maneuvers from ÖVP ministries, in which it was said that the papal month was actually detracted from the father's participation. There was also a joint debate yesterday with the new family minister Stilling, who meant that there are data from the public service, which clearly indicates that the papal month itself is rather a motivator to support the father's participation and the father's care accordingly, quite contrary to all the claims that have been made in the room over and over again. Mrs Bogner-Strauss, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would really like to ask you: Why has there been this constant claim that the father's care would actually be at risk if fathers went into the dad's month? This claim is not supported by data. There are no facts that you have put on the table and the evidence from the public Service shows exactly the opposite picture. The papal month will not be carried by the ÖVP today. We will accept it in this way, but it will nevertheless make a decision in the sense of the people, in the sense of the fathers, in the sense of the workers in that country, and thanks to God a majority will be found. At the next point, we are just before the self-employed, in front of the many small entrepreneurs who have had problems over the past few years, with regard to the demarcation of income, and therefore faced the situation of having to repay the child care allowance – nor for months a single leader from the ÖVP, in this respect somehow a decision to make an improvement for the situation of those concerned. At that time, “The Standard” even entitled “The Standard” in March 2019: ‘ÖVP-internal dispute about child benefit for self-employed people’. It's called: “But here, too, the family resort lies across again. There is [...] continued to be a restrictive execution.’ You too, Mrs Bogner-Strauß, were responsible for this at the time as a minister. But now suddenly everything is different, now the ÖVP switches from blockade mode to election mode, and suddenly one discovers that the micro-enterprises might also be a constituency client. I would therefore like to extend this background information to all the self-employed out there: You see, this is a purely election-wing rhetoric, which is being lived here, this is electoral policy that is being done here, because when there were no electoral times in the house, there was no topic for many self-employed people at all. Yes, and whatever is not a subject in this House, the crisis caregivers are. There is the situation that crisis care parents do not receive child care benefits when they take children under 91 days of age at home and care for them. These people jump into the second when it comes to children who are in need and need the care they need, so they need someone who takes care of them and also provides them. Also in her time as a minister, Mrs Bogner-Strauss, it was not possible for these crisis-care parents to find a solution that would also allow them to receive a childcare allowance. No, it's said if it's over 91 days, then it's the parent definition, and if unfortunately the case occurs that children under 91 days of crisis care parents are taken up and cared for day after day, then unfortunately there is no child care allowance. This is not a solution to a situation. There is a request today. You can show today whether you continue your blockade policy or whether you are at least ready to improve the situation accordingly. There are not many crisis caregivers, but in so many cases it is a really serious situation that needs to be solved in the interests of the affected children. I ask and appeal in this direction a little bit to your family-political conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13361	I call Mr Sieber. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13382	Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! We debate various topics and note that we are moving at a very high level at a very high level of family politics and are trying to move forward further developments here as well. Perhaps it is also possible to note that family policy may have such a high priority in this country and is so far-reaching, because the ÖVP has been part of the government for 32 years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That's where he has to laugh!]] Dear Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, it is already nice when we talk about yesterday's meeting with our wife Minister Stilling and quote her. She really said that there are clear figures to be read in the field of public service regarding the papal month – yes, that's right – but then you really have to do everything she said. It has also said that, of course, public service is difficult to compare with the other sectors in the economy, that there are other measures to be taken. So please: Not only does a tunnel look at what you want to see, but it really reflects the entire statement! Thank you, Mrs Stilling, for this neutral and good statement you have made in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point for today's debate is that, as with the self-employed, the compliance with the limits of credit is checked even if the SVA is self-employed. It can and will not be exempted for self-employed persons for constitutional reasons. Self-employed people have the opportunity to announce to the SVA in the period of two years, in which calendar month they received childcare allowance and how much they earned during, before and after. We are talking about the so-called demarcation of income. The OGH has now decided in 2018 that self-employed persons may continue to delineate even after the end of the two-year period. If the subsequent delimitation does not exceed the amount of earnings, no recovery shall be made. We are in line with these two draft laws. On the one hand, we regulate the time limits in the Childcare Money Act so that a subsequent delimitation for births will be possible from 1.1.2012 to 28.2.2017 until the end of 2025. We thus create the room for all those who have been obliged to recover. We, in turn, help them to their right, that is, we help them for their money. The second part regulates the financing of the recoveries of the persons concerned. For this we create a young family fund, which is fed out of the SVA's resources. It is therefore the necessary means of insurance contributions to ensure the insured person their rights to child care benefit under the law. We are therefore not burdening the general budget with this measure, and we remain in the path of sound budgetary management. It is important that all those concerned are now given the security to receive the funds due to them from the childcare allowance upon timely notification of their delimitations, including retroactively for those who in the past have been obliged to repay the childcare allowance. This is a good solution for all those concerned, in the sense of the insured and in the sense of all families, who have now also secured their right to child care. As a family spokesperson of the ÖVP, I would like to thank all the associated negotiators and negotiators very much. I would also like to mention and stress that this arrangement was introduced by our then family minister Juliane Bogner-Strauß, and I am very grateful to her for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13431	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13452	Madam President. Women Ministers! High house! Today we have a historic day because we are finally able to reach a legal right to a father month for young families in our country – or it is actually a baby month, because it is open to all forms of relations – in law. I belong to that generation of men in which it became common at the time that the doors of the cressals have slowly opened up to men. It was at the first moment a certain uncertainty of men there: Let's go to birth with us now, won't we? However, we have seen very quickly that this trend prevails, because it is already something special. Of course, it is even more special when women over nine months experience how a person develops in their bodies, but to be able to experience these first moments of new life as a father also creates a close connection and something special between the child and the father. It has been mentioned here that all this is so complicated that we demand. In reality, it is not at all complicated. All of us who have had children know that the first weeks are a massive change in our lives. The daily rhythm changes enormously, because at one time there is no longer one's own interests in the foreground, but the little child who gives little living beings the life rhythm. What we want is what the young fathers or boys who are in a relationship simply want, together, to be able to create the first weeks of this common challenge together to experience the time of the first weeks after birth. It's the easiest thing to do when you create a legal claim because there's nothing simpler in the world than a claim to something. This is what we are doing with this draft law, and it is nice to see that reason prevails here that we find a majority here. My wish is only: We have now experienced 25 years in this country how this process has continued. We are currently experiencing that about 7 percent of fathers are already This papier month. I just hope that we don't need another 25 years to make it almost all the fathers, but that this change will go much faster. We'll make sure there's speed. We will move forward with this change. Today, as has been said, is a good day for the families in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13494	Mrs Schimanek. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13516	Madam President. Dear women ministers! High house! Yes, I am also pleased that we are today able to enforce the legal claim for the papal month. I think this is really a milestone in family policy. I would like to point out where Mr Vogl has already started a little. He said that women experience it, and now the fathers experience it, because with the birth of a child, of course, everything in life changes. Taking in a new family member is beautiful and also presents great challenges. I believe that too two of these challenges are easier and better accepted. The Papa month offers the possibility of mutual support. Fathers also have a legal opportunity to get to know their child very early, to build a stronger bond. This is a very important family and social policy measure. The compatibility of family and work needs to become actually viable here. The arrangements for a papal month are currently in the law of the federal government and in certain collective agreements. We introduce the general legal claim to a papal month today. Workers can now also decide whether they want to take it or not. The Family Time Bonus Act only regulates financial security. For self-employed people too, there is now the possibility of adopting a father month. Despite all the initiatives previously launched, in 2018 for the 31-day family leave in just 7 000 cases – exactly 7 338 – applications were submitted, as of September, and that is not 10 percent of the 90,000 births in Austria. In 2017, there were only 642 people who accepted this family time bonus. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really glad we're going through this dad month today. I would also like to see a change in the freedom of choice for all fathers, as the model presented for the paternal month will benefit mothers, fathers and children, and the image of the family for the next generations will certainly change to the positive. Of course, we will also agree with the request to set up the Young Family Fund, but unfortunately we cannot support Mr Loacker's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13562	Mrs Bundesminister Stilling has now come to the fore. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13588	In charge of the affairs relating to women, families and young people belonging to the Federal Chancellery: Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! I would like to join my colleague-in-law and thank you very much from this point of view for your confidence that we will be able to assume responsibility for this country by this time until the election and the establishment of a new federal government. I am extremely pleased that women, families and young people today are such a major focus on the National Council's agenda, because I think these issues deserve to be the focus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As Mr Vogl and some other colleagues have already mentioned, the birth of a child is a decisive cut in the lives of many, many Austrians. This begins with a completely new set of priorities and a different perspective on the importance of life. I think it is particularly important that all parents have the opportunity to spend this important time together with the child from the beginning. If there is an agreement and a majority in Parliament, this is certainly welcome for families in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A stronger participation of fathers in child rearing and child care is also a key measure from a women's point of view, in order to divide the care work in partnership, in the sense of our semi-half-half legal provision. I think that instruments to strengthen women's participation in the labour market, but also to give men the opportunity to live out with their children in the care work and in time. To give fathers and mothers a greater amount of time with their children and also to spend more time together, I believe, also a contribution to strengthening the families. In principle, I am also pleased that the issue of young family funds is being raised here today, because I know that legal provisions are sometimes very complex for outsiders, especially when it comes to child care. Some Members, ladies and gentlemen, and I have dealt with this subject very long and intensively. Some things may seem logical to us, but for many citizens this is very complex, especially since they are sometimes faced with them for the first time in their lives. In this respect, it may be necessary to look beyond deadlines and make repayments that may be potentially threatening for young families in particular. For all the more important, I believe that a request is being discussed here today, too, as we can at least give assistance to certain families. I also believe that it is important for family policy to be able to take part in this application in order to increase the amount of child care due to dependent child care and in the support for child care. The topic of crisis care parents – today also discussed several times – is a very important topic. We cannot thank these families and those people who take over crisis care children enough. It is families who get support in very difficult times. To give these children a perspective and stabilize them is a very, very crucial, socially important task. However, I would also like to see financial support for both the physical parents and these crisis caregivers in order to ensure that they: Crisiss can be overcome well and all children in this country get a good development perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13649	Mrs Hager-Hammerle is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13670	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Today, as Members of the National Council and as NEOS Women's and Equal Opportunities Spokesperson, I can contact you for the first time. I would like to thank my predecessor Claudia Gamon, who has been tirelessly and courageously active here for women's policy and equal treatment, and I wish her all the best for the time and the work in the European Parliament. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank Parliament's management for a smooth start, my club and my colleagues for their trust and support, but also for the valuable welcome I have received from Vorarlberg colleagues from other political groups in this House. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am pleased and told that our cooperation is going to be good and that we will also assume our common responsibility as Members in a hot summer and in a politically hot autumn. A speech of entry, they said to me, is a good moment to hold back and ask yourself: What brought me here? There was, on the one hand, a father and a mother who wanted to give their six children as carefree a child as possible and a good education that never told us what we were going to be, what we were learning or how we should live. Each and every one of us had the freedom to discover their own talents and possibilities and to go their own way. There was or is a husband who gave me a role picture that was devoted to her care and home after the birth of our daughter almost 20 years ago, while for a few years I slipped into the role of the main family nutrition. We wanted to be a family and we knew how, but that didn't please everyone. Do you really have to make the money? Can't your husband do that? Do you know what you're missing as a mother? – I think every mother knows what she misses if she doesn’t see her child for a few hours, and I believe every father knows that too. As a child and youth, I had not experienced such attempts of foreign determination in my own parents ’ home, but as an adult woman. What was written and attributed to me was always there somehow, but now I'm clear, that's what led me here. How can it be that we still want to dictate women and families in this country, or even more, how they should live, what belongs and who does not deserve the money in the family? Is that freedom that policy means when it speaks of freedom of choice? Founding a family is one of the most important and most beautiful tasks we meet people. Family is the place where people take responsibility for each other and for children. They can and want this in different forms. Most of society has understood this – most of the politics, too? If we make laws, hopefully, to create framework conditions that allow fair opportunities for all, are flexible and take into account our society in its plurality, which does not lead to inequality and maltreatment of a group or to any role images – no matter what – cement. We want NEOS to bring family policy where it belongs, and I want to be a strong voice in the coming weeks and months that wants to allow freedom for all and opportunities for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13739	Mrs Graf. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13761	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! We are dealing with several applications under this item on the agenda, so I can start with the first request on child care allowances. The present joint request with FPÖ proposes, on the one hand, to increase the amount of earnings for dependent child care from 6 800 to 7 300 euros per year from 2020 onwards. On the other hand, the retroactive extension of the time limit for self-employed persons who have not received child care benefits throughout the year should be extended. In fact, these deadlines have so far resulted in some self-employed persons having to repay the childcare allowance in full, only because they had failed to notify the monthly breakdown of their income from social security. To whom this has happened despite proper compliance with the commitment limit, support from the extra-provided young family fund is now to be obtained. I thank you here on behalf of all mothers from the area of self-employed people for your consent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now I'm allowed to go over to the Daddy Month or Father's Care. There are two very different applications for this. The one, the SPÖ application 576, provides that a growing father has a one-sided right to a papal month. – It may be that the SPÖ likes to make unilateral decisions and imposes them on their counterparts. We entrepreneurs are used to a different relationship in our businesses. In the interests of our entrepreneurs, it is common for us to make agreements with which both sides can live and with which both sides have been helped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, the application includes a notice of termination, beginning with a prior notice or at least four months before the calculated date of birth. This protection of termination is completely covered and clearly shows that the SPÖ stress party has no expertise in entrepreneurship and will not bring it with it in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] You probably only see the state company. The fact that there are also private businesses seems to you to be completely lost. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: We don't need that in state enterprises!]] It is also interesting to note that there is also an EU proposal for a directive on paternal leave for the first ten days and, secondly, that the implementation of this Directive is not considered necessary within three years. Thirdly, Member States provide for a minimum period of employment of six to twelve months for the right to pay the father's leave. Austria has reasonably also spoken out for the ten days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Of course, we are committed to the promotion of parents and families and thus also to father participation. This is a social concern, but we certainly do not agree with an overwhelming request from the SPÖ, which is again a gold plating. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I must say that I am really very surprised that the FPÖ, although it has agreed to the Anti-Gold Plating Act, now intends to support the SPÖ application. I can't imagine that the freedom-loving entrepreneurs will have a joy with such an exuberant termination protection of at least four months. I am also convinced that the Austrians do not want gold plating or, by the way, populist quick shots. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Not at least, but a maximum of four months!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The NEOS application with the more flexible karenz possibilities represents at least one alternative to the SPÖ application. Unfortunately, the NEOS application also contains certain trace elements of Gold Plating. The claim to 28 instead of ten days of paternal leave is such a small trace element. However, it should be recognised that this does not involve excessive termination protection, but rather an adaptation to the already established provisions of the Father's Care. We will therefore support the NEOS request and give it our consent. Finally, I would like to say that Austria is a country where there is a good relationship between employers and employees in the enterprises. We should continue this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13865	Mrs Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e13886	Madam President. Estimated ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last 100 years, huge improvements have been made for workers in the constantly changing working world. Our safety net with social health insurance, unemployment insurance and pensions has also been constantly developing. We can be proud that there is now also marriage for everyone in Austria. Only when it comes to equality between men and women, both in the working world and in society, do I often feel that some decision-makers still live a role model as they did 100 years ago. In this, women are responsible for the domestic sphere, care for the children, and care for the elderly, while men are to generate income and bring prosperity home. But these role-klical things are no longer lived by the young generation. In order to enable young families to have a fair distribution of work, we must create the necessary framework conditions, because without accompanying measures it will not be possible to live equality and, subsequently, to close the income scarcity. We as SPÖ reject this outdated, traditional image, because everyone and everyone must have the same opportunity to participate in our society, in the work and family life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fathers want to take part in childcare, and therefore I am very glad that it will finally succeed in obtaining a legal claim on the so-called papal month. We can be proud to have a legal claim, because we do not want to be dependent on alms or on goodwill. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now I would like to address the financial situation of the fathers. The fee for the papal month is the family-time bonus of 700 euros per month, which can be seen as the first important step. However, it must be our concern to all of us that in the future it will be paid out without account for the child care allowance, and the clear final goal can only be: full pay compensation for the papal month! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am now presenting an amendment tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, comrades and comrades to the request 576/A concerning a federal law amending the Father's Carenz Act and the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984, which has already been distributed. This amendment refers to the date of entry into force of this amendment to 1. September 2019 changes and the rules for births, whose calculated birth date is at least three months after the entry into force, and for further legislative adjustments. In the Land Arbeitsgesetz, the provisions relating to the calculation of the periods of leave from the Mother Protection Act were added. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14033	The amendment just presented in the Guidelines was distributed and is under negotiation. I am now interrupting the session for 10 minutes, as many difficult votes are about to take place and the Croquis has not yet been passed by the clubs. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 2.08 p.m. and resumed at 2.18 p.m.]] [[14:18:35]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting, and we will now come to a number of votes. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. First of all, we shall vote on item 6 of the bill contained in the motion for a resolution 816/A by Mr Sieber, Mr Mühlberghuber, Mr Mühlberghuber, Mr President, concerning a federal law amending the Childcare Act and adopting a law on the establishment of a young family fund. Mr Sandler, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law. Members of the Sandler Group have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 3 in Article 1 and the resulting renumbering. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This request is rejected. Now I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the present draft law, including title and receipt, in the version of the proposal for an initiative, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sandler, Mr Leichtfried, Mr Zinggl, Mr Scherak, and others, on the request for a special examination of the family festival in the Schönbrunn Palace Park – infringement of the award law and suspicion of party funding by the back door by the Old Federal Chancellor Kurz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – That is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to the vote on item 7 on the agenda, the draft law on a federal law which amends the father's karenz law and the country labour law contained in Amendment No 576/A of Members Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues. Therefore, first of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 1 C. 1............................................................................................................................... Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the own-initiative proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning the amendment to point 2 in Article 1 and amendment to point 1 in Article 2 and the resulting renumbering. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Z 2, which was introduced. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the own-initiative proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 Z 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative, which have not yet been voted on. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are giving their approval to a positive sign. – This is the majority, accepted. That is how we come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also taking part in the third reading to give an appropriate signal. – This is, in turn, the majority, and thus the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, we come to the vote on item 8, the draft law contained in Amendment 919/A by Mr Loacker, colleagues, on a federal law which amends the Mother Protection Act, the Federal Law, which establishes karenz for fathers, as well as the Federal Law on the principles for the regulation of labour law in agriculture and forestry. For this purpose, the Members of Parliament have power. Loacker, Dr Bogner-Strauss, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts which have not yet been voted on. Mr Loacker, Mr Bogner-Strauß, Mr President, have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1 to 3. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority, not accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, not accepted. [[14:26:29]] Vote on agenda items 3 to 5
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14249	We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 3 to 5, which I will in turn separate on each item of the negotiations. On item 3 there is a referral request from Mr Muchich. I therefore leave it to the vote on the draft law on a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Security Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act, to refer it back to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. I am looking for those members of the House who stand up to do so in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We now proceed to the vote on item 3 on the draft law on a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act, in amendment 905/A of the August Wöginger, Werner Neubauer, colleagues and colleagues. There are two additional amendments tabled by Mrs Wimmer, colleagues. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. Finally, there is an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Neubauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In the sense of § 65 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first vote on those parts of the draft law, separately after application, which are affected by all supplementary or amending amendments. As a result, I have to vote on those parts which are concerned both with the amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, Mr colleagues and the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Neubauer, Mr Cots. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the proposal for an initiative. Mr Wimmer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of new paragraphs 1 to 7 and 12 and the resulting renumbering in Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority, not accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1(261) and resulting renumbering in Article 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority, not accepted. I also have an amendment tabled by Mr Loacker, colleagues on amendments and deletions in Article 1. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority, not accepted. I also have a supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Neubauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, concerning Rule 1. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 as amended by the proposed initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. Mr Loacker, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Articles 2 and 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority, not accepted. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled a supplementary or amendment amendment concerning Articles 2 and 3. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. This is the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 4 of the bill on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act contained in Amendment No 695/A by Mr Fürlinger, Stefan, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – That is unanimous. That is why we shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who also give their approval at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is unanimous, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on item 5 on the item on the agenda which, in Amendment No 780/A, was tabled by Mr Sieber, Mr Neubauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Pensions Commission Act, including title and receipt. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. This means that we will be able to get to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[14:32:58]] 9. Point Request from Members Dietmar Keck, colleagues on the merger of NSCHG taxes (123/A)(E) 10. Point Request by Mr Dietmar Keck, Members of Parliament for special pension (124/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14443	We now come to Agenda items 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to these applications, a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been set for the reporting period up to 1. ==References== There is no wish for oral reporting, so we are going into the debate. Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14473	Madam President. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Visitors at home and here at our gallery! The present SPÖ resolution takes an absolutely wrong course. It should be our concern to create the same conditions for all pensioners. A legal measure for a group, which is then preferred to other pensioners, I think is the wrong way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to give an example of what it looks like if we take this absolutely wrong path: A woman retires at the age of 59 and has deposits of 4.2 percent per year. She worked hard for her life, raised two children, ran the household, cared for her parents, and worked hard five days a week. It has a pension of 1 100 euros net per month. It has discounts of 4.2 per cent per year because it did not go to the regular pension, but a year earlier. A night worker retired at 57 years – two years earlier – and has a pension of 2 318 euros net. This worker is now expected to receive an additional bonus of 300 euros net, because the discounts of 4.2 percent per year are to be removed at this pension. Do you find this fair and fair to all other pensioners and people in Austria? Are these worth so much less? – I Do not want to narrow the demands of night heavy work with a word. Night workers work very, very hard every day. That is why they already have better salaries and are well paid for their work. But now to the demand: To give this nightworker with another pension advantage cannot be the way. In my opinion, this is just an election gift from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In our interest, it must be possible for employees to find better working conditions in our companies. It must be important to us the health of the people. In this respect, companies are already on a very good track due to modern technologies that significantly facilitate work. This will result in much less night hard work in the future, and that must be our goal. It is the wrong way to lure people into the night heavy work, that they go into retirement without deductions, whereby it is to be said that women with 52 and men with 57 years of age go into retirement in this area. Thus, a better creation has already been made for hard-working people – who also deserve them of course – but another reluctance is the wrong way in my opinion. On the subject of social security: I miss the involvement of the social partners that you, dear SPÖ, always call for. Where did you look for the conversation? Or do you take social partners seriously only when it comes to one-sided trade union interests? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also do not find a single word in the request on the financing of the federal and economic authorities. This is the style of the SPÖ: The businessman's supposed to be bleeding, the state should continue to make debt. The SPÖ's debt policy must end! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14543	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14564	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that the opportunity today, above all, was not used by the Freedom Party – I never hoped for by the ÖVP – to break a lance for the night workers. [[Abg. Worm: We will explain it!]] On the other hand, it is good, because in this way people can observe outside and see which party, like us social democrats, represents for the workers and which party is quite massively opposed to the workers. Because you, Mrs Graf, have said before, as the Secretary-General laughs, it probably costs him a laugh, and workers and entrepreneurs are very harmonious on the road: [[towards Abg. Head:]] I would ask you, from your side, too, because you are a great and high official in the field of temporary work, to ensure that you do not take action against the workers, just as you last did, as the employer's means of training for workers have been shortened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tanja Graf.]] You need to be a little more careful about this, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On today's motion for a resolution: Of course, it would be important and good to allow for easier access to night hard work, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not anyone doing the work there. They are people in the mines, in the tunnels, people who work on the blast furnace, and how they work there and what influences there actually exist, how difficult it is, ladies and gentlemen, you must first experience before you say easily: No, we stay with the current legal situation and just leave it as it is! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this federal government has been against the workers in the last 18 months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] The workers' rights were clearly trampled on. They have always stood as an employee party by the FPÖ. Just the opposite It made: The Freedom Party has betrayed the workers. [[Abg. Matznetter: Betrayal!]] Today we have seen this again in the decision, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First of all, social security: Social security has been ruined, billions have cost it, self-government has been abolished. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have exchanged the Director-General, otherwise nothing at all; the benefits will not get better, dear friends VAEB – black Director-General; [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Nehammer and Mr Zarits]] AUVA – of course a black Director-General; Pension insurance institution – of course a black Director-General; Austrian Health Fund – a black Director General; and at the umbrella association, the liberals have got one. You have not changed the structure, ladies and gentlemen, you have changed your color and have now accommodated your Director-General. In fact, you're not about people, it's about power, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Nehammer:... a confession!]] Next item, Friday: That's what we'll come to talk about, and we'll see it again. It's not going to be so easy that you just get over there. 300 000 people take away the holiday, which is simply not okay and not fair, ladies and gentlemen very much appreciated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] I would just like to mention one more point because, unfortunately, the time runs out: the 12-hour day and the 60-hour week. We will have the opportunity to take a closer look at it tomorrow at the discussion on the party law or on the subject of party funding – the Secretary-General has already opened the ears. Unbelievable how unceasing one can buy with the wallet, with lots of money the 12-hour day, the Mr. Ortner with 438 000 euros, the Mr. Pierer with 436 000 euros! [[Abg. Nehammer: 360,000 Euro Donations!]] Put the money on the table and say: But for that, the 12-hour day must come!, that is unfrozen, ladies and gentlemen! That will be revenged, and you will feel it when you choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14685	I call Mr Wurm. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14707	Madam President. Minister! High house! Believers at home! Perhaps you should explain this story for a moment, so that the spectators also know what this is about: On the one hand, we have the concept of night work and then the concept of night hard work. Night work is when you have to work regularly between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. in the morning – the classic shift service. Night hard work is when you have to work regularly during this nighttime and have to do heavy work accordingly – that is, at hot temperatures or cool temperatures in the cold store or at extreme noise. These are those Austrians who, for decades and decades, also keep our country alive at night, and of course these workers also have a special protection to expect. That's why, and I can only repeat that once again, a sign more: Only with us liberals goes a little further here; for, dear Social Democracy, you have not been disturbed for years now that there have been reductions in this pension scheme. Where was the Social Democracy? [[Abg. Keck: With the ÖVP this did not go please!]] Now, with us liberals, it will be possible to ensure that this group of persons – and in this case it concerns women from 52 and men from 57 – can enter the special retirement early and then, from 60 or 55 onwards, to the normal retirement pension, that these persons no longer have to deduct this discount at the pension. We will intervene and help in this, but I say it again: All of this will not go without the Freedom Party. That's why, dear workers, consider 29th. September: Only a cross at the FPÖ will continue to ensure social justice in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14743	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14765	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! As I am concerned by the statements made here, and as someone who has done night hard work for many years. Mr Kirchbaumer, you have brought examples that you cannot compare, and I say that very harmlessly. You have mentioned as an example a woman who has performed a daily service, perhaps in an air-conditioned office that has worked for very long years and because of a regulation that ÖVP decided with FPÖ in a pension law at that time has discounts of 4.2 percent. It is due to a measure that the ÖVP has set out that there are these deposits. Then you mentioned a heavy worker and said that the same conditions should be created for all pensioners. What's the nightworker doing? – I think most – and I trust to say this here – do not know what the burden of a night-working person looks like, ladies and gentlemen. I've been a nightworker for many years, and I can tell you: If you are doing activities during the night, where you have 80 degrees here and which you need to do throughout, then this is a huge load for the body, for the circulation, for everything. [[The speaker points to his face]] ==References====External links== It was introduced here in Austria yesterday 38 years ago, namely that under conditions such as heat, cooling, noise pollution, vibrations and so on in connection with night work, a measure is planned. Then the topic of financing comes. How do we want to finance that? . I believe, colleague Kirchbaumer, you do not know that special contributions must be paid by the service providers for these people who do night heavy work, so that funding is guaranteed over the decades. If 3.5 per cent of the gross wage amount – yes, 3.5 per cent of the gross wage total – is paid over a period of three to four decades for every employee who does night hard work, then this early start is guaranteed without deductions, because this is financed by these contributions. [[Abg. Worm: 3.5 percent!]] I explain to you the example of the company in which I am employed, namely the Voestalpine: In the Voestalpine, only 3 800 people are employed in night hard work at the Linz site, and for these 3 800 people in heavy labor, 7.4 million euros are paid per year in special contributions for the special rest due to night hard work. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: It's expensive...!]] That is, if I start counting up there, and I can count a little, then I know that this special pension money would be guaranteed without any deductions – even without the things you mentioned that you're supposed to need. The second request, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the NSCHG taxation: The Night Heavy Labour Act provides that during working hours a person must have a heavy load. What does “predominantly ” mean? – This had to be clarified by law: In other words, the people concerned must have more than 4 hours of burden so that they can appeal to the Night Heavy Labour Act. This means that if you are exposed to more than 4 hours of heat, you can do it. But if you are exposed to 2 hours of heat, 2 hours of noise and 2 hours of shock, then you cannot rely on this law, because it says: a heavy load. Therefore, there is this request from us to carry out a aggregation of the NSCHG taxes. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason is, of course, that the working world has changed and these old loads are still very likely to exist, but many new strains are coming on these people. It is therefore necessary to bring about a change here as well. I can only tell you one thing: It's always talking about better working conditions. I think my company, the Voestalpine, is trying to bring about better working conditions for its employees over decades. There are activities, however, where one can improve working conditions, as much as one wants, which will still remain in the NSCHG because one does not get it away when someone works, for example, in the steelworks, at the blast furnace or somewhere else. If someone wants to create the same conditions for the pensioners, I would like to say one thing – I'm going to be polemic now, and I said it in this house 14 years ago –: If you look at the life expectancy of those people who have spent their lifetime doing night hard work, you know that they do not have the life expectancy of those who have not done this activity. And I think it's up to you to be able to retire early and have no cancellations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:49]] The application has the following general wording. Motion for a resolution by Mr Rainer Wimmer, Mr Muchitsch, Mr Keck, Mr Knes, Mr Stöger, Mr Ing. Vogl Genossins and comrades introduced in the course of the debate on Amendment 123/A(E) by MEPs Dietmar Keck, colleagues "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection, is asked to redefine the existing criteria for heavy work as a result of the changes in the requirements imposed on workers, for example, to work longer and more flexible."
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14856	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14883	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Wurm has claimed that the SPÖ had introduced or could have changed the cancellations in the invalidity pension or in the special pension. I'm actually correcting: The deposits were introduced in 2003 under the government of Schüssel-Haider. [[Abg. Hafenecker: He wasn't in a government at all!]] – 2003, the FPÖ was there. There has been a nameable vote in which the members of the FPÖ and the ÖVP have introduced the deposits. I also say clearly: The SPÖ has reduced the reductions because we have set a ceiling for this. Today you have the chance to end these deposits. [[Abg. Worm: But now you need us!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e14931	There is now no mention of this. I'll close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[14:51:03]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: motion for a resolution 123/A(E) by Mr Keck, fellow Members, on 'Communication of the NSCHG taxation'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. (E 80) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Wimmer, colleagues, on 'Communication of the NSCHG taxation'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – That is, in turn, the majority, accepted. (E 79) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: motion for a resolution 124/A(E) by Mr Keck, fellow Members, on 'debt-free special pension'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. (E 81) [[14:52:19]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Andreas Schieder, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Parent Protection Act in 1979 (338/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15013	We are now on the agenda item 11. With regard to this request, a period of time for reporting to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been set for the reporting period up to 1. ==References== There was no oral reporting. Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15040	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that today we can still decide on the improvement of the karenz time. It has then become a three-party agreement in the final effect – or even four political groups agree that we negotiated the last week. What's this about? – It is about the calculation of 24 months of leave periods in the case of pay cuts, in the case of payment of compensation. This is a very positive measure for women or for those who benefit from parental leave. All these people will benefit from this scheme. It is an important measure of family policy that these disadvantages do not arise here. Those who deal with the income reports know that this is a major point of why there are differences in income between men and women in many areas. It is an important measure. Last year we announced to the FPÖ that we wanted to implement this. However, I would like to thank the social partners very much, especially the services side, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, especially the Secretary-General Karlheinz Kopf, who spoke here. In most of the collective agreements, this scheme has been used for a period of time. It has already been implemented. A warm thank you to the social partners as a whole, especially the service provider's side! I would also like to mention that here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, there are very few collective contracts where it has not yet been implemented, or there are mainly employees inside that are not covered by collective agreements. In Austria, it is only a few thanks to God, but it is a matter of concern to us that these colleagues too are now included in this regulation. It is also an important law to close the income shears between men and women. I thank all those who support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15095	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15116	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like briefly to add the following to Mr Wöginger's speech: There are about 100 000 women who are not covered by a collective agreement. That is, we are also doing this together for this group. There are four political groups in this House who today give their consent to this 24-month statutory karence scheme. It took a little while for this baby to be born, but today it's ready. I am really happy, really for all women in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== August 2019 will be born, you will go to Karenz and take this time for 24 months really, that will also share, however, you will benefit from this scheme. That's the best thing about it. The already mentioned income shear can thus be closed by an average of about 3 per cent, and that is great for many, many women who use these leave periods. This applies not only to mothers who have born children themselves, but also to adoptive mothers and nursing mothers. It is therefore a wonderful thing that, instead of the ten months now, 24 months are fully reckoned and that, on the initiative of Social Democracy, it was our initiative; one must be so fair as to say that – now it has been possible to regulate the legislation in such a way that one has earlier entitlement to the sixth week of holiday, that a payment of compensation in the event of illness is guaranteed that the cancellation protection here is also given a different dimension and a lot more how that security is given and the issue of compatibility is well solved. I would also like to thank the social partners who have already resolved this scheme in collective agreements. It would have allowed me to comment on a small page: We already had the 24 months where women are particularly few in the metal industry and in others, but where many women work, we will now regulate it by law. [[Abg. Wöger: Trade!]] – The trade also has it, but gastronomy and other areas. Also the 100 000 women who have not had a collective agreement so far are covered by this scheme. That is why I think it is great that we are now making a good contribution to the closure of income shears. I now read the amendment, ladies and gentlemen: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that what has been achieved so far – the income reports have been mentioned, where you can see a little bit what someone in a company deserves, including the salary calculator, which has been installed, but also the salary figures in job inserates – were first steps that contribute to making wage shears even in Austria a lot smaller. But what now succeeds for all women in whose collective agreements it has not yet been regulated, who have not yet had a collective agreement, is that, if they spend the full time with two children, they have up to 3 percent more living income. That's really a milestone. I am very happy for the women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[14:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15246	The amendment which has just been tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15276	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I am also delighted that we can now decide, because I have been working on this subject since 2008. I remember very well, as you were still a Minister of Women's Affairs, and have always rejected my requests that have gone in this direction. So now to stand here and say - - yes, but you know - you have always rejected them, and now to make yourself up here and say that this has always been your demand, is not quite honest. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No rejection! ...!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Enjoy me!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] It has been a liberal demand since 2008, so I am very pleased that we can now implement it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (looking towards ÖVP) Look over there!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I've been in Parliament since 2008. We have brought this in several times, and it has always been rejected by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We were in a coalition!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] – Well, with the colleagues of the ÖVP, I made it at least so far that last September we were able to make a joint request in this direction. If I remember correctly, you have rejected this request – at least in committee – but also; if I have that right now. I know this one hasn't gone far enough, but somehow it's not quite honest. It is a good day for the women and mothers in Austria. I am pleased that we have now managed to ensure that the payroll periods are also included in the pay-as-you-go. The women will be truly grateful. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have, with the minimum pension and now with this measure, put in place some measures to move forward for women in Austria. What's clear about this: With the Freedom Party, women's political progress also goes a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15385	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is next spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15406	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! I think it is important that it will be possible today with the amendment of the Mother Protection Act to finally ensure more gender equality in the working world, because children still have women – as nature is inexorable – and also the disadvantages resulting from it – whether it concerns working life, career, income to retirement, are largely female phenomena, and there has been politics inexorably so far. However, this will not change in principle with the calculation of the days alone, because there are still many more steps to be taken. But this is a first and a very important step. But before the big celebration mood breaks out, I would like to take a look at the past in order to possibly also see, colleague Schimanek, why it has taken so long – since 2008 – and why nothing has been possible even in the last two years. Yes, we were of the same opinion. With the exception of the Members of the People's Party, we have all stressed here that a legal solution would be needed – that is why this small review is now also needed. In September 2018, there was a decision by the government parties, namely an application that has been filed and which has stated that it should be left to the collective contractual partners to record this full account of up to 24 months. A month after that, in October 2018, it said at the Committee meeting: If these collective treaty negotiations fail, we do so by law and guarantee this for women in this country. Then there was the vote, which I also contributed, because I believe that it is urgently necessary to take full account of the days of leave – in the best case also a legal rule, so that even those 3 percent of women who do not have protection from collective agreements receive this full account. In the plenary session, this was also decided by the votes of Black and Blue and my group. So, what happened? - Nothing happened. Unfortunately, in the autumn wage round it was not possible to record the full reckoning of up to 24 months in all collective contracts, and that in a situation in which the law should actually have been taken advantage of, because the deadline of the end of 2018 was set at that time, and it had been over for a long time. [[Call the ÖVP:Fast in all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] There was no legal regulation, and it didn't look like it was going in that direction. I was very surprised at the time and also asked in my speech Klubobmann Wöginger: Why doesn't anything happen? Why not grant 500 000 women, mothers, workers exactly this credit if it was not possible in collective treaty negotiations to record them everywhere? You, Mr Wöinger, told me at the time: After you've got to look at this. – At the time, I was not aware of what still needs to be looked at, because we decided here in Parliament to make a request, which meant that by the end of 2018, we want the full account. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That's why: I didn't know why nothing happened. But I am glad that we stand here today and negotiate this very request. There is no government anymore, so it is now possible to carry something forward. I am glad that we are going one step further to achieve the full account of up to 24 months of karenz for women in this country. That was possible because Ibiza came. This was possible because, due to the mistrust proposal, the then Federal Government no longer sits in the government offices and this free play of the forces at last also offers opportunities to be active here within the meaning of the population and to no longer be able to decide on as many valuable initiatives as for a long time in the minds of the people out there. I think we have taken a big step together. This pale turkise lid on this topic is now gone; You are currently taking part in this request – I am also grateful for it. It is, I think, a common big step for women in this country. Voices They're all closed, because I think that's a strong sign for women in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15452	The next item is Mrs Graf's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15480	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! As we have already heard several times, this item on the agenda is about calculating the days of leave. Let me briefly turn the time back and let the story about this subject happen. It was not until the last autumn that the National Council decided to instruct the social partners to take into account the calculation of the time of leave in the course of their CV negotiations. In countless discussions and rounds of negotiations, the social partners have also complied with this task in the various sectors and have already been able to implement individual models for the industry in more than 90 percent of collective contracts. I should like to take the opportunity to thank the negotiators. Although the social partners have done their job with certainty, the SPÖ surprisingly made a request in June – in the free play of the forces – for the full account of the karenz period. This was completely incomprehensible to me as an entrepreneur and a KV negotiator, but it also showed that the contrast between moral claim and reality at SPÖ could not have been greater, because democratic decisions and decisions appear to be of importance only if they fail in the sense of SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] The otherwise so vehemently requested and conjured up social partnership path was clearly left with the request 338/A submitted by the SPÖ, since the application had the following serious effects [[New call for tender Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Call the ÖVP:Tatsachenreport!]] He would have shown a massive intervention in the CV pay scheme and also in the social-social-autonomy. With the proposal, the SPÖ would have declared the social partners' discussions and autonomy to be meaningless. In general, then, the question arises as to whether the SPÖ could possibly still have a role for the trade unions or only considered them to be agents of fulfillment. [[Abg. Vogl: Car Friday...!]] The trade union, as well as the economy, could no longer have been able to count on the SPÖ's request. Legal certainty also seemed to be a foreign word, because the SPÖ application at the time would have retroactively meant a totally surprising additional burden on entrepreneurs – where the money comes from, the SPÖ and, in particular, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek seemed to be no matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Vogl.]] According to the SPÖ proposals, our entrepreneurs, who eventually and at last also pay for the social system, employ almost 2.7 million people and always create new jobs, should have been asked again to pay full attention. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I am happy for the women!]] [[New call for tender Heinisch-Hosek]] As an entrepreneurship representative, I was really horrified by your statement, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, which you made recently in the “Press” on the issue of counter-financing. They meant that “it is secondary. “This is what we need to do now” – knowing that you do not contribute to it yourself and that the retroactive measure contained in the original SPÖ application would have added up to EUR 400 million to our businesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Classical SPÖ policy: spend money without remembering that there must also be a payer. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Who does the...?- Oh, my God!]] My colleague, our access is another one, namely, a more responsible one, which looks to us to put in place measures that people need, and on the other hand to ensure that they are also eligible for funding. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Wrong speech, I believe!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Incorrect item on the agenda!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] We have recognised the positive work of the social dialogues and have conducted further discussions. We also believe that the existing gap, as the colleague has already said, must be closed. Therefore, there were also the discussions for the three-way application that there was an amendment, and you then reasonably agreed that we would not do so until August 2019. I can also express my thanks here, because our location Austria needs legal certainty and reliability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end, however, you still allow me a hint for any upcoming SPÖ applications: Election applications can really have side effects! Dial sugar can pick up the stomach!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15659	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15686	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak briefly, because Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has so to speak told the story. One thing I would like to say: It was with the FPÖ that we tabled this motion for a resolution at the time. I have always said quite clearly that the social partners should once have the opportunity to show that they count on the periods of leave. It has happened in almost all collective agreements, also in those sectors where above-average numbers of women work – when trade is brought about by the cleaning workers, where 45 000 people, almost exclusively women, are employed, which now account for the 24 months. We said we'd look at what the last one looks like. We now have a few percent that are not covered by collective agreements, and that is what we are doing now. We handle it with a solution with a house mind, that is, it is not retroactive, because it would have been unfinancing for the companies – as Mr Graf said – that is absolutely right – but pro futuro from 1. August. I am therefore glad that we can solve this together with this request in the sense of women, in the sense of the employees. However, it was important for us not to leave the social partners out of the house, but also to allow them to count these times, which was almost 100% fulfilled.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15719	The next – it does not seem to me yet, but I see it at the waiting position – is Mr Muchich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15740	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There are very few sentences to clarify how it was created and how the facts are fact, and there has been a motion for a resolution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nehammer]] This motion for a resolution on the content – the political messages of ÖVP and FPÖ have always been clear – said that there must be a legal regime by the end of 2018. The fact is, we as SPÖ and as opposition party have always pointed out when this legal template is coming. – Dear August Wöinger, she never came! I was so ready that I was Social spokespersons have said that we find out which industries they have and which are not. I have made these lists available to you. [[Call the ÖVP: Who did you give it to?]] It was I who said that we were trying to reach a common solution, because it is especially worthwhile for these women not to drift further in terms of income shears. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It cannot be forbidden and no disadvantage in terms of income if someone decides to care for children themselves – that was always our goal. [[Abg. Schimanek: Since 2008 you have rejected my requests!]] The fact that we as SPÖ are so attached to it that this is now here in Parliament and that it comes to a broad decision-making is not your merit – that was our merit! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We do not let you take away this request and this achievement for women throughout Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15816	No one is reporting on this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in the motion for a resolution 338/A by Members of Parliament. To this end, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Bogner-Strauß, Mr Belakovich, Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the draft law in Amendment No 338/A, title and receipt, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Bogner-Strauß, Mr Belakovich, Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr President. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this at the third reading. – This too is unanimous, and thus the draft law has been adopted at third reading. [[15:16:27]] 12. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Andreas Schieder, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Employment Act, the Goods Act, the General Civil Code, the Land Labor Act 1984 and the Civilian Fund Act 1996 (274/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15875	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs has been informed of a period of up to 13 months for reporting. ==References== A request for oral reporting lies within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Mr Klubobmann Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15905	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have finally made a joint request in this case, which supports the Office of Honor, in particular the forces. What's this about? – It is about the fact that, when a major damage event occurs – and this has always been the case in recent years – it is regulated that the military forces, or fire brigades or rescuers, for example, can be removed from the Red Cross, then removed from the workplace, is also guaranteed the payment of compensation for employees and the entrepreneur, the service provider, receives a bonus in this respect, in the form that 200 euros per day from the disaster fund, so to speak, will be reimbursed. This is a bonus system that the fire brigades have also proposed themselves. There has not been much left of the SPÖ's original application. What is originally available was a pipe recorder – all just five days without any parameters to release what even the firearms and operational organizations did not want. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] We have then jointly – I would like to mention the current popular lawyer Rosenkranz – prepared an amendment. The SPÖ is still on the driving train at the last minute, which is all right. We now have a sensible proposal, which is in the sense of the operational organizations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] In the event of a major damage event – we are talking about 100 people who have to be in use for at least 8 hours – it is important to agree with the service provider whether one can leave the service. If the service provider says it fits him, you can participate in this major damage event as an operator. The payment is secured. We made that up last week. The entrepreneur receives this 200 Euro daily rate so to speak for allowing this force, the employee, to go there as well. This is a sensible arrangement. This is not what is originally available with the application, because this would have torn the voluntary system out of the joints. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a sensible solution for adoption – in the sense of our forces, in the sense of our ten thousand volunteers. And finally, it is a special concern to thank all those who work in our intervention organisations. Austria is a show country here. Without honor, our country would look poorer. Let us be grateful that we have so many people who volunteer into the intervention agencies!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e15959	Member of the Muchitsch Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16012	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! So how to twist things is really sensational. I'll do it objectively. The fact is, the SPÖ has launched this initiative. We all remember that in the second quarter of 2018 there were the large weather caprioles, the many rains, the permanent rains, the disasters. As a result, the SPÖ, including Andreas Schieder, submitted the application: Let's do something for our operational organizations! If there are climate change, ladies and gentlemen, then there is also a need for legal changes for those people who are voluntarily employed. Whenever we see a blue light, when we hear a siren, people who want to help other people are in action, and most of the time they are the volunteer helpers of various intervention organizations. That was the reason we said as SPÖ in the summer of 2018, we want legal changes here. We want the people who are on duty to be legalised in the payment of the payment. That was the reason. What have you done about ÖVP and FPÖ? – You sent us in the Committee on Social Affairs with our request: Adjournment, apologies, apologies. That's it. [[Abg. Hammer: Because the request was very bad, craftsmanship very bad!]] Finally, the pressure on your shoulders increased because we just stayed there and because we were looking for the conversations. I thank the President of the Austrian Federal Fire Department Albert Kern for these constructive joint talks. [[Abg. Hammer: But he was against your model! He didn't want your model!]] I would also like to thank the representatives of the Red Cross who have also joined us in the talks. [[Abg. Hammer: But we could have done that before the request! Before the request, it would have been better!]] And with these insights we then sought the conversation with you, and all of a sudden you said: Yes, let's try a common solution. - Those were the conversations. Yes, there are amendments to the original request. But you never went there, but at the end of the day, you don't have to knock on your chest, that's a fool! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: The people are wreaked to them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The fact is that we wanted a constructive solution, we wanted this right for those people who are in use, and finally we succeeded in formulating a joint amendment in these discussions on last Thursday, namely the amendment tabled by Members Muchich, Hanger, Belakovich, colleagues on the request for "a federal law amending the Employment Act, the General Civil Code, the Legal Code, the Law on Land Labor 1984 and the Civilian Fund Act 1996 (274/A)". The proposal I am now presenting to you, which I would like to explain in his key points, is now before you. Key points are as follows: The exemption shall be agreed with the service provider as before. In the case of major damage events, voluntary members of the operational organisations have a right to compensation. Employers will receive a refund in the form of a replacement premium/implementation premium of 200 euros per day. Reimbursement of the commitment premium will be ensured by the disaster fund. The Federal Government has to pay these additional costs for this contribution to the countries. We from SPÖ have now struggled for a year to find a solution here. I thank you very much, and I can say that I have to fight this one year, which has really been worth it. It is a good day for all the organisations involved, for all volunteers, but also for all people throughout Austria. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this item on the agenda, I would also like to add the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on 'working time redeployment'. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You know, a year ago, it was almost at the same time, a new law on working time has been introduced here by means of initiative, which is not good, is not fair, is not thought through, and that is why today we are proposing a resolution on the redistribution of working time, fair working hours, and you have the opportunity to confess color here. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This motion for a resolution stands for greater fairness for workers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you whether you agree to this request or not. As in the case of voluntary helpers, we as SPÖ will remain at this point when it comes to achieving fair working hours for all people in this country, and if we receive the trust of people in this country on 29.9.2019, we will continue to do so. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[15:26]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16480	The applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Mr Amesbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16504	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! After this election speech by Mr Muchich, I should like to return to the subject. I am really pleased that we are now taking this decision by a broad majority here in this House, because today's decision is good for the Office of Honor in Austria, is good for disaster aid in Austria. As a steirer, I would like to focus briefly on the largest of the numerous operational organizations, namely the voluntary fire brigade. The use balance of the voluntary fire brigade alone in the Styria is impressive. Thus 1,800 lives were saved in 2018. The 773 Styrian fire brigades with more than 50,000 volunteers have spent around 6.3 million hours working and working for the benefit of the general public free of charge. This is for an accepted hourly wage of 30 euros 188 million euros, which have also been saved by voluntary work to taxpayers, and thanks to the politics and the thanks of society cannot be large enough. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We are experiencing it in the recent past, in recent years, that natural disasters are increasing more and more. In the summer it is the known damage events due to flood disaster, and especially last winter we saw what these masses can do with snow, where it really only manages the voluntary fire brigade to kick off the roofs, so that they do not fall down, and also villages cut off from the outside world. In particular, these missions have also shown that the fire brigade there and there, although all of this has been effectively handled, is at the limits of its capacity, especially in rural areas where wide distances of work are to be handled. Such events happen regardless of the time of day and night, regardless of whether it is weekends or whether it is under the week, these events do not take into account whether people are at work or are free. Ladies and gentlemen! I've been a fireman myself for 25 years, I'm 13 years old. Year of life of the Jungfreuerwehr joined and has been allowed to be local fire brigade commander in the voluntary fire brigade of my home community for nine years now – a very, very nice and exciting activity that I am very happy to do together with my comrades. Each of us politicians is always on the weekend at numerous meetings of operational organizations, whether this is the rescue, the fire brigade or the mountain rescue. We politicians always thank the forces, and across the political groups we all speak partly ardent words of thanks and recognition. But it must also be enough of the words, it must follow concrete actions, and that is why I am glad that this is happening today. We agreed at the time to the SPÖ's request that we can deal with this in terms of content. I must say, however, that we did not agree to this proposal in substance. Mr Wöginger is quite right, Beppo Muchich is really a layer printer, because your request would have threatened the honorary office in this country massively. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musical.]] – That’s very true, my colleague. You have referred to the President of the Bundeswehrverband Albert Kern – a steirer like both of us – but if you had read the opinion of the Bundeswehrwehrverband on your original request, you would know that the fire brigade as the main organisation has fallen to an destructive judgment on your application. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Bundesführerverband writes literally about the SPÖ application: “We fear disadvantages for fire brigade members on the labour market if [...] employers are obliged to grant employees who are volunteerly engaged in a volunteer fire brigade, 5 days of special leave – regardless of whether the costs are refunded or not –.” – This is not what the FPÖ writes. "The Austrian fire department is based on voluntary service, which means a free-of-charge commitment. A mandatory payment of compensation can also be understood as a payment of the volunteers, which would cause massive damage to our system”. I am grateful and glad that ÖVP and FPÖ are averting this damage that the SPÖ has done from our voluntary fire brigades, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With the bonus system that was addressed - - – you have not even defined what is a disaster! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Now, at last, the major damage event with at least 8 hours and at least 100 forces is clearly defined. That's what you did. – We are now implementing this bonus system, which the Bundeswehrverband has called for. [[Abg. Plessl: Is that an election speech? The speech is not very objective!]] I am glad that you have come to reason and that we now have a broad majority in favour of this important measure, ladies and gentlemen. It is known that voluntary engagement in Austria is indispensable, but it should not be considered as a matter of course. It was and is therefore high at the time when the willingness to use our volunteer assistants is brought to a legally adequate level. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that is exactly the right way for the service provider to agree with the service provider on the duration and extent of the service exemption in case of major damage events. With this bonus payment of 200 euros per operational force and day, we also do not leave the service providers in the rain. This is a good solution, and as I mentioned earlier, today is a good day for the Office of Honor in Austria, a good day for the so important civil protection in Austria, because this Parliament is finally giving the volunteer helpers in this country the support and appreciation they have long deserved. - Good salvation!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16583	I welcome the students of Sacré Coeur from Graz to our gallery. [[General condolences.]] The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16613	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a volunteer speaker of our parliamentary club, I would like to emphasise that I am very pleased that this decision is now obviously unanimously taken here in the House. I believe it is really important that we try, especially for our voluntary organizations, to keep the Party policy debate as far as possible, and that there is a broad consensus for this model that my previous speaker has already outlined. But allow me, but also the history of how this request has come to light a little. Mr Muchitsch, I have to say that nothing is left of the original SPÖ proposal at all! You have to hold on to this clarity, that is quite clearly so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Muchitsch, it is already an art to want to do something for the volunteers – and the large voluntary associations are voting against it. You have to bring that together once! I would strongly advise you to speak to the voluntary organizations before you make your requests. Then we would do much easier in the House in some things. What were the main criticism points? I would like to summarize them once again. The first main criticism: The application has not been specified. I have sent the request to the budget service and asked for an impact assessment: What does he cost? – I get the answer that you don’t know which forces you mean. Just one example: At the Red Cross, we go to the service and not to the service. We might be on duty then. The application was not even specified and has been crafted very, very badly made. Secondly, the intervention agencies have unisono said that this leads to disadvantages in the labour market, which we do not want for our voluntary members, because they then have a disadvantage on the labour market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] Thirdly, I then tried to skip the cost a little. The SPÖ said that 300 000 volunteers were affected, and in another broadcast it was even 500 000. Well, let's guess a little: 500,000 volunteer times five holidays times 8 hours times 25 euros – that's where we talk about hundreds of millions! Quite honestly, it can't be. And fourth, and that's probably the most important thing: It would have called into question the honorary office itself! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] When we start paying honor – where do we start, where do we stop? What about the Kapellmeister of the Musikverein, what does the cultural officer there say? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I can't do that! We have to hold up the honorary office, we have to appreciate it, but as soon as you pay it, it's no longer an honorary office. The basis is very clear. That is why I also need one aspect: I am in favour of not adorning ourselves with foreign feathers, I really want to emphasize that, because what we decide today is in reality the model of the federal fire brigade, and not ours, not that of the parties, but that of the experts. And I think it's very good that we extend it to the other intervention organisations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we hadn't talked to the interest groups for a long time – before the SPÖ had talks in the final phase – then we wouldn't have this model at the table. Therefore, from my side also a great thank you, I would like to join: to the President Albert Kern and, of course, to the Vice-President Armin Blutsch. There has been a unanimous decision by all nine national fire brigade commanders that the SPÖ model is rejected. I can also say a great thank you from my side. I am very pleased that we are extending these regulations to all the intervention organizations; it is about the Red Cross, it is about the workers-Samariter-Bund, it is about mountain rescue, it is about water saving. Of course, we must take all the organisations involved. Finally: I am very pleased that there is a unanimous decision-making process, obviously there is a good model at the table, and I thank you now for the support. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16707	I would also like to welcome the students of the School of St. Martin in Villach, who came at the invitation of Mr Weidinger, to the House. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16738	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can only join my previous speakers, I believe that we as politicians must be very careful to deal with the office of honor; Honorary office must remain honorary. If you try overly hard to initiate and decide laws that even the volunteers refuse, we do not please the honorary office. I think that this solution, which could be developed in the heat of the fight God, thanks to all the parties, is a very good one. If everyone agrees with it, I think the workers, the employers, the voluntary organizations, everything has been done right. Much more is not to be said. I could say now that we invented it, but I think everyone is behind the Office of Honor in Austria and everyone is behind our fire brigades. We, as mayors or mayors, who have already had to deal with disasters, know how important the office is. We would not be able to deal with these events. But we also need the federal army when it comes to such an event. If I see our representatives of the Federal Government and take initiatives here, that the German army is also adequately equipped to support our voluntary organizations professionally, then this is an important next step. I appeal to all that in the sense of safe- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16777	I can also welcome the students of the HTL Dornbirn. The last week of school was over. [[General condolences.]] Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16807	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Air, fire, water and earth – ancient Greek philosophy has developed the teaching of the four elements, and I would like to illustrate today the honorary office with regard to these four elements. Think of the air, it always has two sides, on the one hand we look forward to a cool breeze in the summer, but on the other hand there are vortex storms. There are many people who have lost their roofs over their heads, and the volunteers are working for days to help them and to cope with the environmental disasters. The Fire: A campfire is something pleasant, but on the other hand it is like the image of devastating forest fires, such as in my home country Carinthia, in the district of Klagenfurt-Land, in Ferlach, terrible. A few weeks ago, there were operational organisations to combat the devastating forest fire on site. In the steep terrain, firemen fought against the flames. The disaster train worked perfectly, but out of the air the removal work of federal army and police helicopters was supported. At this point, I would like to thank all the organisations involved and the 140 firemen who have been in operation in the district of Klagenfurt-Land in this devastating forest fire. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Earth element: Through the earth many things are growing, but in contrast, we are also experiencing terrible earthquakes, murals. Think of the forests and pastures, the villages and towns that were partially destroyed! There were again hundreds of volunteer volunteers in use. The water element: On the one hand, I think of Carinthia, where we have 1 270 lakes and the Wörthersee has drinking water quality, on the other hand, the terrible pictures of the flood disaster, of the avalanches, the day-long rainfall that many residents have driven out of their homes and apartments. There were again hundreds of volunteer volunteers in use. Each one of us knows volunteer helpers and everyone of us knows the shrill sound of the alarm siren when it goes back to a job. In Carinthia we have more than 20,000 volunteer firemen and firemen. This makes me very proud, and I am very grateful for each one. It is most of your leisure time, appreciated helpers and helpers you give for your trainings. It is your life that you often risk in the service of your neighbor. For your commitment, for your civil courage, without hesitation, a retribution God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today's application is a long-standing demand of the liberals, including the liberals in Carinthia, and will bring about a significant improvement for workers and for employers. For the voluntary helpers and workers In the future, there will be a right to compensation in respect of operations carried out as part of the membership of a disaster relief organisation, a rescue service or a voluntary fire brigade in the course of a large deployment. This scheme ensures that employees no longer have to take advantage of their vacation or their time-consuming. For the employer, however, a guarantee is also made by receiving 200 euros per employed employee per day. I am also pleased as an entrepreneur that a solution could be found for both sides. This request by the liberals and colleagues is a request to strengthen the Office of Honor, to strengthen the voluntary nature and to be a strong sign of gratitude and recognition for the hundreds of thousands of committed people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16871	Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Member of the House of Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16892	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hanger was supposed to talk more to the firemen than to talk about the fire brigade. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: You should do that!]] I spent the weekend at three fire brigades and talked there with those people who fill the sandbags that make the bets that also make the difficult bets; as with us 14 days ago, traffic accidents with two dead. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hanger and Mr Kirchbaumer]] Those who do the services also have the right to see that the society sees that they have no problem with the employer. I would like to thank every entrepreneur who releases his employees for fire brigades. As a rule, it is the small companies that are located in the village, and precisely for these employees and for these small companies we wanted to take action. What are the measures? – We are concerned about the people who fill the sandbags, who cut people out of the cars, and who place their husband and their wife when they fire. They need legal certainty and a legal claim to the employer that they can also get away from work. The question, which is to be agreed with a commitment, can you explain this to me, but please, when it comes to the use of disasters, I can understand it. For us, it was important that companies do not get any tax reliefs, but that when a fireman leaves the fire brigade, the employer also gets a replacement from the disaster fund. That is exactly what we have implemented, and that is why we are on the side of the firemen and the firemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16941	No one is reported in word for this anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law contained in the motion for a resolution 274/A by Members of Parliament. To this end, Members of the European Parliament have tabled an amendment. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts of the proposed amendment, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Muchitsch, Mr Hanger, Mr Belakovich, Mr President, have tabled an amendment concerning Articles 1 to 5. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, in the version of the proposal for an initiative, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to it for a sign to this effect. – That too is unanimous. We shall come to the third reading. Whoever gives a sign of approval at the third reading, I ask him to give it. – What is done with it. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution - - – I would like to apologize politely to my promiser. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: On the determined amendment of Members!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, so the determination is of no use, the request is rejected. [[15:48:09]] 13. Question by Mr Mario Lindner: Stop conversion therapies (558/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e16999	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. With regard to this request, a period of time for reporting to the Health Committee was allowed until 1. ==References== A request for oral reporting within the meaning of § 44 para. 4 is not available. Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17030	Mr President. Women Ministers! High house! The present proposal prohibits the exercise of conversion and comparable reparative treatments for minors. I assume that most of you can start with these terms nothing or very little. In fact, they have hardly any relevance in Austria, nor do they have any relevance in Germany and Switzerland, but there are very similar legislative initiatives now. A certain number These controversial forms of therapy are, in any case, important in the United States, where they are already banned in some states. What is it about? – I think it’s a clear sign that we want to put. These processes are about converting homosexuality into an asexual or heterosexual behavior, which is very questionable with a number of risks and side effects, such as depression and anxiety disorders, to suicide. That is why there is a clear rejection from the trade associations both domestically and abroad. I am a psychotherapist, and it would be, in my view, contrary to the professional obligations and also the ethical principles of the Psychotherapy Act applicable to me, to carry out such a procedure. Even the concept of conversion therapy or reparative forms is highly controversial, since it implies that homosexuality would be a malfunction that could be “transformed” or “repaired” under quotation marks. It's just an absolute rejection. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NOW.]] However, especially during this period of the most intense, even almost feverish, legitimate activities, we must nevertheless pay a little attention to the professionalism of our applications. What we were concerned with is a clear definition of these so-called conversion therapies from socially recognized and extremely important forms of therapy in the context of psychotherapy, psychiatry, clinical psychology to mental care. It is very important to establish a very clear demarcation so that they are not restricted in their scope of action. That is why we have successfully called for the psychiatric, psychotherapeutic and psychological trade unions to be involved in the preparation of the relevant government paper. In this amended version, we therefore support the motion for a resolution on the prohibition of the exercise of conversion or similar reparative treatments for minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17081	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17102	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Today I have an incredible joy. Today is a really big day for the LGTIQ community in Austria. We've been fighting very hard for over a year, and now it's time: Today we stop conversion therapies to children and adolescents. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] Today we stop homohealing in Austria. That was also the moment when my thoughts of suicide began. It's something I'm fighting with today. I was completely panicked, including thoughts of suicide. After all, I remained gay, but was close to the suicide. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are reports of people who have experienced and survived conversion therapy as children or as young people. Conversion therapies, reparative therapies and similar practices are certainly not: Treatments. They don't help, they don't heal anything, they damage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Depression, anxiety, risk of suicide: This results in these practices. They don't heal anything because sexual orientation or sexual identity never anything may be sick or not normal. The Federal Foundation of Magnus Hirschfeld speaks of at least 1,000 people who become victims of these practices each year. They happen in families and small groups, they do not always happen through doctors and therapists, but among the many different coverings: through life counsellors, coaches and in the context of religious communities. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! What we decide with this proposal today is a milestone. We have been taking the first far-reaching decision for the LGBTQ community for ten years since the registered partnership in 2009. It is not for courts to ensure more equality and protection, but for us, politics – we can be proud of it, and I would like to thank everyone for it. [[It was in favour of SPÖ, NEOS and JETZT, as well as members of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm proud to be standing in this house as an open gay man. I am proud that today we send the signal to every family in our country across party borders to every young person, to every mother and to every father: Just as our children and young people are, it's right! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] I'm not sick, my community is not sick – quite the contrary: We are colorful, we are loud, we are proud, we are self-determined, we are visible and we are in the middle of our society, but above all we are unhealable colorful. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17211	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17235	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Plenum, in the gallery, in the media! Well, I'm heterosexual, I don't want my sexual orientation changed either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we have already heard from my previous speakers, conversion or reorientation therapies are attempts to change sexual orientations. These trials are often very aggressive and they are completely useless. In 1991 the WHO was included in the ICD-10 code Homosexuality, as a diagnosis of mental disorder, is removed and recognized as a form of human life. Thus, these therapies, which result in a change in sexual orientation, are not only impossible but also unethical; they can do great damage. They are rejected by national and international associations for psychiatry, psychoanalysis and psychosomatics, and that is why, above all, it is important to protect minors and children, where these therapies are only further insecurity, fear and disorientation as a camouflaged re-training attempt. This therapy is actively applied and offered in Germany, it is largely unknown in Austria; it is used voluntarily and paid privately. At this point I come to an important issue, ladies and gentlemen, because it is clear, in all the negatives of these therapies, that we are creating a precedent for the prohibition of non-evidence-based therapeutic methods, which must consequently also extend to other areas. I take here, for example, the platform I've been looking at: Psyonline, Member of the Vienna Chamber of Commerce. Here are offered by non-determined experts biodynamic body therapies, existence and existence analyses, self-killing therapies, manual laying; then there are many other therapies that we know, such as commuting, ear candles, and laying on of hands. That is to say, we must stop, on the one hand, the expanding charlatanry – especially where it causes damage – but on the other hand we must ensure the freedom and the right of individuals to determine privately through its treatment methodology – especially adults. Children and young people, ladies and gentlemen, are always a priority to protect, so we agree with this proposal, although it is a detail problem which is hardly existing in Austria at present. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are in favour of the proposal, which has been put forward and formulated in a round of discussions with the Minister of Health, to bring in a comprehensive, step-by-step legislative proposal in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17292	Mr Scherak has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17314	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! High house! Fortunately, we are living at a time when we have progressed ever further in connection with homosexual societies. Unfortunately, it was never de facto politics, we have always needed highest court judgments in the issue of marriage for all, in the matter of adoption rights. It is, and for itself, beautiful that there is now, only it has been embarrassing for politics that we have not done this by ourselves. Unfortunately, however, we also live in a time and in a world where unfortunately more and more people – although it is clear to many and accepted by many that there are different sexual tendencies – do not only question them in a way or want to restrict the rights of homosexuals, but rather act very consciously against them and also want to promote them very consciously. In my opinion, this very reactionary attitude is also seen in very different areas, for example when it comes to the issue of sexual self-determination or to reproductive rights; there is a citizens' initiative that wants to call into question the deadline solution. These are all things that make me very worried. There is something else that somehow beats the barrel out of the ground, and that is the conversion therapy addressed. It has already been mentioned, but one has to remember this: It's really about someone having the goal of losing someone's homosexual inclinations and repolating him. Anyone who believes this unscientific nonsense believes that one can impose a different sexual inclination, so that he will either become heterosexual or asexical. I think it's cockbucking and absurd that there are people who believe that such a thing should be scientifically possible in some way. This is not only controversial – Mr Engelberg has mentioned it – but it is perfectly absurd that one seriously believes that one can turn around some sexual orientation! It's something so absurd that it's no longer annoyed. [[Congratulations on Members of NEOS and SPÖ.]] That is why I think it is urgently necessary for us to take this decision. I'm very glad we're doing this together. Mrs. Povysil has said that this affects children and young people who cannot defend themselves and that there are people who send them into this therapy – one must not call it therapy, because it is such an inconceivable nonsense that only the term is wrong. I am deeply convinced that we must stop this unscientific nonsense, and I am very glad that we can decide on it this way today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17359	Mrs Schwarz has been spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17380	Mr President. Women Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Especially do young people love us here at the gallery and, of course, all spectators at home! I am usually not a friend of quotations, but I believe that some sentences that have already accompanied me in my life and are of Goethe fit quite well – you don't necessarily have to believe in order to be able to agree –: “[...] we cannot shape the children in our sense; As God gave us, so you must have them and love them, raise them to the best and let them give them all." – This is actually all said. Each of us comes to the world with plants, with talents, with character, with skin, with eye color, with whatever. What matters is that we are well accompanied and supported for a lifetime, whether by the family or by friends. Support is not the conversion therapy under guarantee, but quite the opposite. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] My colleague Martin Engelberg has already explained a lot from his professional point of view. Of course, I understand psychological and psychotherapeutic assistance for all – including children and minors – as valuable help. I know that the professional groups of psychotherapists and psychologists in Austria, i.e. ÖBVP and BÖP, do not apply, but it must be ensured that it is not to be used. That's, I think, what it really matters. The codes of the professional groups do not see this at all, but we are simply holding it today. Sexual orientation – heterosexuality or even homosexuality – is not a disease. I'm not trying to figure out the people I work with or I'm friends with. For me, it is important that they are happy as they are, no matter who they live with or how they live their sexual orientation. When young people are on their way to meet the challenges of life, so in the middle of puberty first experiences with love, with sexuality, experience the first disappointments, please support them if you are parents if They are friends, and, if necessary, also through real professional psychological or psychotherapist help, but: Just let them be the way they are, and come back. You don't kill her! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There are really many institutions in Austria that support these ways. I recently had an appointment with Pro Mente, and they gave me this brochure “First Help for the Soul. ” [[Keeping up - to - date brochure]] – There are many contact addresses inside that you can contact. This is just an example of many. So look, listen and give help. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17438	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on'stop conversion therapies'. Mr Lindner, Mr Schwarz, Mr President, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution as amended by Mr Lindner, Mr Schwarz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Whoever is in favour of this amendment, I would ask him to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. That is why the request has been accepted. (82/E) (Applause from the SPÖ and Neos representatives) - Abg. Lindner: Thank you!) [[16:06:46]] 14. Point Request by Member Elisabeth Köstinger, Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Waste Management Act 2002 (AWG-Lawsverwaltungsnovelle 2019) (887/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17496	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. As regards the application, the Environment Committee became a deadline for reporting to 1. ==References== There is no wish for oral reporting within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. The honourable Member has been informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17529	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have the right to decide on a number of simplifications in the Waste Management Act, but above all a subject is the focus and should also be the symbol and expression of the past government in the fight against environmental pollution, namely, that plastic should ultimately be declared a fight. The symbol is the Sackerl, which is used according to the tons, and with the ban of the plastic sackerl, especially the one-way plastic sackerl, we also follow actions. I believe that it is very important in the long-term strategy that the past government had with regard to the setting up of environmental policies that we can continue to implement today. I am very grateful for this because one-way plastic carrier bags do not have to be as we can use a wide range of alternatives. In addition, we take a huge step forward where we need one-way sackerl, with the prescribed proportion of biogenic substances of at least 50 percent, in relation to the question of bioeconomics. It was Federal Minister Elisabeth Köstinger who launched this with the strategy for bioeconomics. Now we are coming to the implementation steps. I very much hope that after the elections we can take further steps, because only if we take the path together: Getting out of the fossil raw materials, going to renewables!, we want to go consistently, we will also meet the requirements that the environment and climate impose on us. It has already been reported in the media today that a joint motion for a resolution has been tabled. In the debate or in a very, I say, fruitful discussion of all the environmental speakers of the political groups with the representatives of Fridays for Future, that youth organisation in the field of climate policy, discussing the problems and the subject matter very well and preparing a motion for a resolution. At the end the Freedom Party was no longer possible to go along. That's a shame, but I think in most parts you agreed. The finding that we have a climate emergency is also particularly reflected in the formulation of the Climate Emergency. We do not have a state of emergency – you all know here what the name of the emergency would be a legal consequence – but rather an emergency. We find very, very many points in the explanatory statement of the motion for a resolution. I am also very happy and very proud of this – and I believe that the past government can also be proud of it – that Austria, together with the Scandinavian countries, is a pioneer in Europe in renewable energy and in the reduction of CO2. I think it's very, very important to hold that. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] - Please, that's the applause for the minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I think that these efforts are often counter-carriaged. The European Commission, with the agreement of the Mercosur negotiations, has finally given way to a stronger import of raw materials from South American countries into Europe. What do we want? Do we want to reduce European production, outsource this production and replace it with imports? – It cannot be in line with the climate objectives of the Paris climate change. It is coming that we are for the deforestation of rain forest and therefore go back home production. The Mercosur package includes 650 000 tonnes of ethanol. This is the triple of the production we have in Austria. You should ask yourself if this really makes sense or if we are not developing the next climate time bomb. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I think it is quite important to see environmental and climate policy as a whole – and we should not act against it. Production bans in Austria are always an intermediate for import. This means that production is done elsewhere, that is to say, we are using resources from other countries, and this is an superiority that we should not afford, because the resolution finally states: “In future decisions, however, we always have the impact on climate and climate change, to present and take into account transparent and comprehensible.” I would ask you to take this into account during the debate on the next item on the agenda, in which production in Austria is to be restricted, because whoever wants the change in climate change, who wants to have more biogenic rather than fossil raw materials, must also go this way. Take to heart the sentence that we have jointly formulated in the motion for a resolution: “In future decisions, let the impact on climate and climate change always be identified, presented and taken into account transparently and comprehensiblely”. – Take this to heart for all the decisions we have to make here!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17612	Mr Fichtinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17633	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to start by following the words of Mr Schmuckenschlager on this joint motion for a resolution which has been tabled today on Fridays for Future. I am also very sorry that FPÖ was finally unable to go along with this request. We only had last negotiations on the subject yesterday and actually believed that we would come to an all-party request in this regard. To the AWG legalisation novel, whose focus is on the plastic sacckerl ban: However, there are also deregulation measures in waste law, but these are not as overwhelming as in the original ministerial draft. We will therefore also agree to the request, although we find this link between plastic ban and gifts to the economy somewhat problematic. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] However, the main criticism of the application is that no general reduction target for plastic packaging is included in this application. The majority of the House has rejected this request for a time limit, which is why we are today proposing a corresponding amendment, namely the amendment tabled by Members Feichtinger, colleagues on the motion for a resolution 887/A by Mr Köstinger, Mr Hofer, Mr Schmuckenschlager and Mr Rauch concerning a federal law amending the Waste Management Act in 2002 and the AWG Rehabilitation Novel 2019. In fact, it is a question of prohibiting the placing on the market of plastic carrier bags from 1.1.2020, with a few exceptions, but above all of the fact that, unlike the application that is available, a reduction target of 25 percent by 2025 for the quantity of plastic packaging, which has been placed on the market, has been developed in particular for the unique packaging of products. We fear that a ban on plastic carrier bags alone could lead to a massive increase in pre-packed goods or of coated products, and that cannot be the objective of the scheme. We request consent – the request has been distributed and has also been notified accordingly. Of course, the AWG-Novelle also offers an opportunity to deal with environmental policy for the last one and a half years. The AWG and the ALSAG have been negotiated with the countries and many agreements have also been reached in many respects, only the ALSAG has now been in the Ministry since December 2018, and we have actually expected to be able to reach an appropriate decision by the middle of this year at the latest. Unfortunately, this is not the case. We have also heard new positions of the EIA on environmental and climate policy: Climate protection now has priority and becomes the main issue. There will also be a climate cabinet. The state objective of climate protection is to be included in the Federal Constitutional Act. It has already been mentioned today: Comprehensive environmental protection is already a state target, see TOP 1 of today's agenda, and by the way, ÖVP recently wanted to write the state objective of the economy into the Constitution. [[Abg. Haubner: Right!]] So selling this swivel in public will be a little difficult for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] One last point: Austria is now to become hydrogen nation number one. Estimated colleagues from the ÖVP, your own climate and energy strategy notes on page 58 that no significant additional contributions to the substitution of fossil fuels can be expected in the period before 2030. 99 percent of the hydrogen currently produced worldwide comes from fossil energy sources, so hydrogen is still a hidden climate killer. It is to be hoped that we will make the necessary technological leap for the useful use of hydrogen, but until then the announcement remains the same as the climate policy of recent years: insufficient. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Title without content!]] [[16:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17827	The amendment has been properly tabled and explained and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Rauch has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17852	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A brief replication of my colleagues Feichtinger and also a supplementary explanation of why we did not agree to this four-party request for a change in the national climate, as it is said in a Fridays for future: This would be the focus of the last 17 months of this government's work, especially in the environmental field. [[Abg. Easy: Yes, but rightly!]] We have put in place concrete measures in this respect, which were still in the previous government programme, and which would have been completed during the current period. Take, for example, the transport billions of Norbert Hofer: This would have been an essential factor in public transport, especially in rural areas. Further points are the expansion of renewable energy – an essential aspect of the previous government programme – such as mobility as a whole or hydrogen, which is an important factor in getting out of fossil fuels. The approval of this request would therefore counter-carry out what we have done in the last 17 months. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I do not fully understand the EIA in this area; however, it is a decision of your group, that is legitimate. We stand here on the programme we have worked out together and, of course, there would have been plenty of opportunities and air up. At the moment, the topic of plastic is forbidden, that is, the carrying bags. There we save a total of 7 000 tons of plastic waste on the one hand, but at the same time this means a manko again, because you can also see this plastic as a raw material. In this respect, it is important that we bring this plastic back into the system in a circular economy, and of course we have a lot of air up there. For example, what would be another possibility would also be a deposit system as in Germany, where all plastic bottles are returned and then brought back into the circulatory economy via a deposit system, so there is a decarbonization. If we continue in this area as before, without taking action, we would have more plastic waste in the seas than fish in 2050, and we do not want to do so. We have a clear position, a clear position, namely that we have to say that we have to work in this area in a sustainable way, we have to have sustainable positions, on the one hand, through the use of renewable raw materials in the carrier sector, but also, of course, as mentioned earlier, by reintroducing this circular economy so that we do not generate waste, but rather see it as a raw material that can flow back into the circulatory economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17894	Mr Bernhard. — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17916	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Today is a good day for environmental and climate policy. [[Abg. New builder: And for pensioners!]] He's really good in two ways – I want to start with what's still fresh now. We – S & D Democrats, Conservatives, NEOS and List NOW – have tabled a request, jointly developed with the activists of Fridays for Future, who actually formulated the climate emergency, as my previous speaker said, in which we together in this Parliament confess that climate policy is a priority in the future, with all the gradations and many things that we have called for as NEOS in the past and which have been rejected. However, I do not want to go any further, but we are celebrating that there has been this step, and let us follow this request as well. At this point, however, I would like to thank the young people who are committed to environmental and climate policy every day. Without this commitment of young people, this request would certainly not have been made in Austria today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now to the actual request we have on the agenda: Waste management law – this is a bit bulky. What's behind that? – Behind it is the so-called plastic sackerl ban. It is expected that 5 000 to 7 000 tonnes of unnecessary plastic waste will no longer be used in Austria in the future. Of course, we support this in full content, but that can only be the beginning. I have just said that this is a good day, because we now have a consensus on climate policy, because we have a beginning in reducing plastic waste, but we must not hide it – even the former Minister for the Environment is among us; many others are no longer here today – in Austria there have been decades of absolute downtime in sustainability policy, a little bit of a fog grenade: a little something for agriculture, a little something for ecology, but mostly far too little of both. What it really needed would be a determined action without people in our country going on the road to demand it, out of a sense of responsibility, and that has not happened in the last one and a half years. That is why the next step, from my point of view, would be to involve NGOs in the plastic strategy in such a way that we can make use of the entire competence of these civil actors for our state that we make a measure offensive in promoting pledge, reuse and repair cycles, that we gradually increase the recycling rate and reduce the amount of waste, that we essentially amend the Waste Management Act to make it easier for real circular economy concepts in Austria. Only recently has a statistics drawn up that of the entire economic cycle, of which 100 percent, 10 percent are circular economies; 90 percent are classic old economy. In other words, in 90 percent of cases, we do not yet pay attention to the resources we might be able to use – resources that we are expensive to import, resources that may be difficult to reduce in the environment, and of course, things we repair also have higher domestic value added. These would have been things that would have been necessary. I would like to point out a point that clearly shows the inactivity of the previous government or governments – we have asked that nothing has happened anyway –: The issue is the environmental impact of plastic granulate and plastic abrasion in artificial grass sports grounds. No question, football is a great asset in our sports world, but it is so that we know from studies that in Norway the artificial grass courts are the second largest cause of microplastic pollution. A similar picture appears in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. So we know that the plastic lawn actually has the problem of a significant environmental impact. Many European countries have commissioned and acted on studies in this regard. Austria has not only acted, Austria has not even commissioned a study, not even when we asked for it. That means: Let us finally follow the words of action not only in climate policy, but also in the fight against plastic sponges where we really do not need them! That's a call to all of us. I would like your support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17958	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e17980	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! There are two things behind this bulky waste management law novelties: on the one hand, the ban on plastic sacks, that is, the ban on the placing on the market of plastic carrier bags, and on the other hand, there are some points in the waste management law which I would like to highly critically evaluate. If we take a look at § 37 of the AWG, we can see the following – we recall that the Aarhus Participation Act 2018 has taken overdue steps to implement the Aarhus Convention in Austria on the basis of pressure from the European Court of Justice, but at least an important step –: Paragraph 37 of this Act now provides that certain types of investment are exempted from the approval regime of the Waste Management Act and are restricted to commercial or mineral raw material law procedures. However, these two laws have never been introduced in order to ensure the legal protection required by Union law. This non-innovation has, of course, consequences: With regard to the facilities of § 37 AWG, the legal protection that has just been created is thus abolished by the back door. In my opinion, this is a new violation of Union law, which will bring about new legal uncertainty, and we do not like it at all. If we are going to agree to the ban on plastic sacks here and today, because it is an important environmental and climate protection measure, I would like to say that this agreement takes place with a big crack of teeth, because in the background more economic interests of the ÖVP will be done, and I do not like this, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, at all. That's nothing but swindling. As far as Mr Uwe Feichtinger's amendment is concerned, we shall, of course, be voting in favour of it. This is an important addition to ensuring that plastic packaging is reduced by 20 to 25 percent by 2025. One word on the motion for a resolution tabled by all the previous speakers on the climate statement: Yes, we had talks with the young people of Fridays for future. There were very good discussions that took place there, and I believe that this should also be a model for the future and can be used if people wish to express their concerns to Parliament and to the government from outside so that they can offer a stage. As we have seen, these discussions have also produced quite a good result. It has become a four-group resolution request, which calls on the Federal Government to take measures against the climate crisis, measures that correspond to the scientific state of the art. – This is not something, but it is important because, a few days ago, the European Commission strongly criticised the National Energy and Climate Plan and called on Austria, in many recommendations, to take better action. Mr. Rauch – I don't see him right now, oh yes! – If you argue here that the measures referred to in this motion for a resolution would counter-carry out what the past government has done, I can only say: [[Abg. Smoking Gives a Handsign]] No, unfortunately not! This does not conflict, but these are complementary proposals that we need if we want to have a chance at all to achieve the Paris climate targets. I was a little surprised by your disapproval, but I was told by my staff that you actually went out of yesterday's talks with a very positive mood. I would of course be very pleased if your group would also have approved this motion for a resolution. It is not yet too late, you can agree to the deadline request tomorrow, but you can also agree to this request in September. Go inside, support the young people! They are doing important work, and I would like to express my warm thanks to them for this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18037	Mrs List has been reported to speak – the first speech on her first parliamentary day. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18058	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the screens at home! Instead of Mr Elli Köstinger, who cannot speak as a result of illness, I should like to explain and clarify a few things to the requested ban on plastic sacks. My name is Daniela List, I'm an entrepreneur from Styria. I am very pleased that I am allowed to give my first speech in the House on this important environmental issue and would also like to express my express thanks for the friendly reception in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as early as December, under the then Minister Elli Köstinger, we announced the initiative that we wanted to ban disposable plastic sacks. We now keep our word and also implement this plastic sackerl ban. The draft was completed a few weeks ago, so we brought it to the National Council today. We do not want to lose time and decide quickly on this extremely important environmental measure; there is no reason for us to wait even longer. What are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? – Today’s decision prohibits disposable plastic carrier bags from 2020 onwards. We are only the third country in Europe, which takes such a decision and thus plays an exemplary role. So far, only Italy and France have taken this important step, and, as many of you know and remember, life works in these countries even without disposable plastics. We can avoid up to 7 000 tonnes of unnecessary plastic per year with this measure in Austria. Not affected by this ban are, for example, dog food sackerl or also the classic garbage bags, but very likely are fruit and vegetable sackerl. These make up a very large part of the entire plastic flood. In the future, these must be biodegradable to 100 percent, which means they must be compostable. From an environmental point of view, and above all from a technical point of view, it is incomprehensible to me how one can be against such a measure. Unfortunately, especially environmental measures on the part of NGOs, but also on the part of the opposition parties, are often very publicly misrepresented, rather than jointly looking forward to an improvement. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Under the Austrian Presidency, the forthcoming EU Directive has been drawn up, with which further disposable plastic articles will soon be part of the past. These include plastic drinking rooms, including cotton sticks or plastic cutlery and plastic plates, which cause huge amounts of garbage, especially in the case of solids. Such disposable items are simply no longer necessary, there are enough alternatives. We see this measure as a strong sign against the disposable society. Our goal is to set a real circular economy in motion. The future lies in the fact that we use as many products as possible of everyday life as possible more often than just once and do not use disposable items anywhere where this is very possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the future is reduced, huge and recycled, that is to say to avoid, reuse and, as a third step, to use as much material as possible. At this point, I would like to thank Elli Köstinger and the experts of her former resort, who have put a lot of time and a lot of professionally well-founded work into this novel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ban on plastic sacks is an important step towards more environmental protection in Austria, it is an important step in the fight against unnecessary Plastics, and we thus send a strong signal against the disposable society and for more sustainability in Austria. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18146	Mr Duzdar is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18167	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers at the gallery! Mrs Liste, I think you did not understand us. We've never said we're against a plastic-sackerel ban. We from Social Democracy would simply have wanted us to take a step further and, in fact, we would also be willing to reduce plastic packaging because, if you only take this measure, of course, there is a great danger that this will ultimately lead to a rise in plastic packaging. That is why we are criticizing, but, of course, this is a good step forward, which is why we are going along today. We from SPÖ want to reduce plastic by 25 percent by 2025 in general, and it is once again typical that the ÖVP does not go along with it where the interests of large corporations are affected. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] There you hear and you can't see anything about you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Didn't start so badly and drifted off to the left again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] That's exactly the picture we know. I am here with Mr Bernhard, who has rightly spoken of a standstill in the energy and climate policies of the last 17 months of the Black and Blue Government. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is not something I invent, but look at how many climate-related laws in the energy sector have been brought to the ground in the last 17 months! Except for a small energy law, no relevant climate law was passed. [[Abg. Strasser: You refused to talk!]] [[Mr Haubner and Mr Wöginger.]] Even the EU Commission, ladies and gentlemen, and I cannot spare you, has found failure in climate and energy policy by the Black and Blue Federal Government, because you have not been able in the past to present concrete measures on how you want to achieve these climate objectives, and you have not been able to say how you want to finance the achievement of the climate objectives. That is why Austria is threatening billions of fines. I ask you: Who's to pay for this? Today, as a Member of Parliament, we are taking responsibility and we are ending this standstill in the climate and the environment. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why we have tabled important proposals, namely for more clean energy in Austria. Whoever is for climate protection today is for clean energy. And that means more wind power, more photovoltaics and more hydropower. [[Abg. Zarits: Only hydropower! That's where you have to laugh!]] [[Abg. Gödl: No biomass!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have put in these requests because today we are experiencing the enormous social impact of the climate crisis on our lives, how we live, how we live, how we work. Therefore, the climate crisis is a social crisis. If something does not happen soon, then climate change will lead us to know very well that millions of people will be affected. The social consequences are fatal! And what are we experiencing right now? – We experience a climate apartheid. What does that mean? – That means that the rich are causing this climate crisis and are at the same time those who are free of the negative consequences of this crisis that they have caused. [[Call the ÖVP:Stadt Vienna!]] They have the money to buy themselves better living conditions, while the many, the majority, the poorest, the weakest, must bear the main burden of this climate crisis, which they have not caused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The climate crisis has a lot to do with poor and rich. We from Social Democracy accept this challenge. [[Abg. Hammer: It's fucking hot today!]] We have realized that the climate crisis has to do with social justice and that time is running out. Therefore, we would like to ask you: Go with our applications for climate protection, for clean energy! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18309	Mr Gödl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18330	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems a bit strange, Mrs Duzdar, when you go here and talk about climate protection, where it was your group in the Federal Council, which, for example, blocked the promotion of biomass plants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Vogl: Inefficient!]] That's where you've played every credibility. The Federal Minister currently has many things outside the service of Elli Köstinger – who has no vote today, so that she cannot speak herself – during Austria's EU Presidency, for example, the ban on disposable plastic. [[Abg. Lightenness: What does it mean at present? Do I have to make an actual correction?]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Right now?]] Our Federal Minister has thus achieved a great deal in terms of waste economic development and climate protection. [[Abg. Lightenness: What would that be?]] I do not think Mrs Köstinger needs to be blamed for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: A single example!]] But now on waste management law: Waste management in Austria is a real success story. Very early, Austria and all the federal states also recognized the need to manage waste. It was among other things Joschi Riegler, who led the eco-social market economy into the meeting. In Styria, for example, the so-called waste disposal law was passed in 1974. Let's see where we stand today: They may be familiar with the EU Waste Framework Directive, which includes a five-stage pyramid in the field of waste management. There is waste disposal in the final place and waste prevention in the first place. Plastiksäckerlverbot is a classic measure of waste prevention, i.e. the top priority of the so-called waste hierarchy also in the EU Waste Framework Directive. The turquoise-blue government has, of course, prepared the novel that we are now deciding to do, i.e. the AWG legalisation novel, when it was still in office and dignity. She prepared it so we can decide on it today. It is good that there is now a broad consensus for that. I would like to go a little bit away from the plastic sack, because this has already been discussed more precisely, and a little bit to the other legal measures that we are implementing here. Sebastian Kurz has promised in 2017 to try to take back bureaucracy where this is possible. A colleague in the Federal Council, the president of the Economic Chamber of Lower Austria Sonja Zwazl, once formulated – and I would like to quote that here: bureaucracy is the biggest enemy of the house mind. Our task as a legislator must always be to consider where we need to take red tape back because it hinders us in development. In this respect, there was a joint working group – this is specifically addressed to colleagues Feichtinger von der SPÖ – in which the Municipal Federation, the Municipal Association, represented the associations, where the Chamber of Commerce was involved, where the social partners were involved, where entrepreneurs were trying to find out where we could unravel the relatively highly regulated waste law. Now we decide some things that are absolutely important to arrive today. I would just like to mention one example: At the moment, it is regulated that a gardener, for example, if he makes the shrub cut at home, tucks the trees and replaces the flowers, according to the current rules, these wastes, these biowaste, should not take away. Why not? - Because he's not a waste collector. A waste collector, according to the law in force, needs to be authorised by the head of state. Now we are making a so-called exemption from the obligation of permission in § 24a of the AWG, with which we simply deal with such unnecessary regulations. [[Abg. Schellhorn: There are thousands in the business order!]] And this example is to demonstrate that we also have to question our own regulations again and again – whether they are contemporary and whether they are enforceable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Yes, yes!]] This is what we are doing quite clearly with this new legislation, and we are also introducing the ban on plastic sacks. In this respect, the principle applies: bureaucracy can be the biggest enemy of the house mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18465	Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18486	Mr President. Dear High House! Already in the Council of Ministers lecture on 5 June. In December 2018, the German Federal Government addressed this important issue and set itself appropriate targets to avoid disposable plastic products and plastic waste. A measure in this regard is the prohibition of disposable plastic carrier bags, the so-called plastic sack. Similarly, in the sense of de-bureaucratisation, the previous government has carried out a reforestation of the legal bodies with the aim of eliminating administrative overregulations, without losing quality in terms of essential content. The essential contents of the plastic carrier bag ban shall be recorded as follows: The ban on the sale of plastic sacks makes an essential contribution to the lattice ring and to the prevention of plastic packaging. In order to avoid the pre-packaging of fresh products such as fruit or vegetables, very thin plastic sackerl, fruit sackerl, may continue to be used, but these must be made from renewable raw materials and biodegradable. Sackerl, which is designed for multiple use and plastic bags such as garbage bags, fresh bags or dog cot bags are not subject to the ban. Debureaucratisation was illuminated in so far as an expert and expert group was set up in the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism in the summer of 2018, which worked through the Waste Management Act with the aim of legal cleansing and administrative simplification. The results contained in the present own-initiative proposal concern, inter alia, the disposal of the alternate or the deputy of the waste officer or the waste representative, the disposal of evidence of an intermediate storage for waste collectors of non-hazardous waste and the extension of the authorisation and accounting exemption of the collection as well as the treatment of waste to professional groups whose economic activity in principle serves a purpose other than the collection of waste, such as installers, gardeners or carpenters. In addition to the sensibleness of this Option of the Waste Management Act, it should be stressed that the comprehensive consultations of subject-matters concerned and opinions from the assessment process have been brought into play as best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18528	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18550	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! My group colleagues have already noted that we will, of course, agree to the law, but to the address of the ÖVP and also the FPÖ: As far as this law is concerned, I do not think the time for heroic speeches here on this speaker's desk, because a particularly large throw is not what is available. On the contrary, I would rather think that it is more or less a confirmation of what is happening like a red thread through the environmental and climate policy of the former Minister and now MEPs: It is a lot of show and in the end has little substance when it comes to concrete implementation measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or, in other words, It is a lot of populism, really and actually plastic waste-reducing measures are missing but ultimately. Why do I mean that? – Finally, we have had a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which we held together: In total, in Austria, the year 2016, we have considered 300 000 tons of plastic waste. Now we are making a ban on plastic sacks, which is, of course, right, but to illustrate what this means in terms of these 300 000 tons – Mr. Cot smoke has already said it in an additional sentence today –: Plastic sacks account for approximately 1.6 to 2.3 percent of plastic waste, i.e. 5 000 to 7 000 tonnes; or perhaps to make it more understandable for the ÖVP in its language [[Abg. Gahr: As long as you understand!]] If you assume that you will receive 300,000 euros, but in reality only receive 1.6 percent, then that is 4 800 euros. [[Abg. Zarits: The FSG... pay!]] This is not very much, you will not rejoice. That is why it is not a big throw as far as this law is concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we really discuss plastic avoidance, then we should discuss other things. We all know, we're going shopping: Meanwhile, there are fruits that are peeled and then packed in plastic. In fact, there is a need to start by saying that there is a lot of plastic packaging, and if we don't, then we can ban plastic sacks a thousand times, but it won't change at the end of the day, because, of course, my colleague is right. Of course, we cannot solve this alone in Austria, but we know that if we do nothing against plastic waste, at the end of the day, in 2050, more plastic waste in the oceans of the world will swirl around than fish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] You think with a little bit of a plastic-sackerel ban, a little show and a little populism, but nothing concrete, we will prevent that. I very much doubt that this will work. That is why I appeal to the ÖVP and also to the FPÖ to do perhaps a little more and agree to the SPÖ's amendment in order to really eliminate 25 percent of plastic waste by 2025. That would be my announcement, and that would be a little more than a little plastic asshole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18619	No one is reporting on this. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law contained in Mr Köstinger, Mr Hofer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Fichtinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. I should therefore first like to vote on the part of the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Fichtinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment on paragraph 11. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I can also ask for a sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[16:56:09]] 15. Point Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Andreas Schieder, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act 2011 (18/A) 16. Point Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Plant Protection Act 2011, BGBl. I No. 10/2011, as amended by the Federal Act BGBl. I No. 163/2015, amended (909/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18708	We shall now proceed to items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. As regards applications 18/A and 909/A, the Agriculture and Forestry Committee had a period of time for reporting to 1. ==References== Mr Strasser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18735	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that plant protection is a difficult emotional issue, and I would like to try to go into this discussion with a certain amount of materiality – a matter of fact that certainly does not matter because today's press releases – well – do not reflect what the Boku and the Ages have given us along the way yesterday. We apply plant protection products to farmers because we trust in science and in the authorities that approve these substances. Unfortunately, we are often put on as a poison sprayer, and I would like to get rid of that with the first thought. Our goal is to produce clean, healthy, high-quality foods. We do this in the conventional way of production and we do this in the biological way of production. We also want to protect ourselves and we absolutely do not want to poison anyone – that is often blamed on us. The success is right because the Ages in their studies show that the Austrian food, in terms of residues of plant protection products, is the cleanest in the world compared to both the European and the international averages. I believe that this can give us great gratitude and confidence. Today we are discussing some applications for the elimination of the active substance glyphosate. A little bit of history: The past government has commissioned a feasibility study, and we have commissioned two independent institutes, the Ages and the Boku, to analyse what it means if we continue to reduce this active substance, and what it means to strive for certain exit scenarios in Austria and in Europe. The results were presented yesterday. Mr Preiner said that she was more horrendous. I say before I come to these results: I am firmly convinced that the Ages and Boku are completely independent and clean in their service because they do their work on behalf of the Austrian public. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A great thank you to the clients: the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Social Affairs. I have college colleagues there myself, who have children, family, these are quite normal people, quite normal scientists who, according to best knowledge and conscience, do their work there. On the results: One has come up with it – or was not really something new, because Obwexer has already found it and has also shown the experience from the Federal Republic of Carinthia – that a total ban on the active substance glyphosate is union-lawful. The SPÖ should have drawn some knowledge from the teachings of Carinthia and formulated this request as we did. The Boku has insisted that there is no increased risk. Out of 1 124 samples, 92 percent are without residues, and only one sample has exceeded the health-damaging limit – so also from this point of view not really a problem. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] One has come up with it and has also very beautifully analysed that in the field of mulch and direct seed with the glyphosate application, it can improve soil fertility and fruit succession as well as reduce erosion and that, if properly applied, it can be a contribution to climate protection, because less diesel oil is also consumed if one is less arable and yielding, and thus the climate balance is improved. The SPÖ proposal is thus a certain suffrage, one scatters sand into the eyes of the people, and it is really a blow to the face of those farmers who apply this active substance accordingly. [[Abg. Matznetter: But that's very dare...!]] I wonder where the farmers are in the FPÖ. Unfortunately, they have fallen once again, and the farmers will be left in the rain once again by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Schimanek: I'm going!]] Now to our request: We are committed to the prohibition of private applications, we are committed to the fact that public areas are no longer treated with glyphosate, and we are building on the experiences from Carinthia. We rely on progress, we rely on trust, we rely on efficiency, and we trust that farmers who use these funds do so properly. I would ask the FPÖ, in particular, to support this request once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18849	Mr deputies, you do not have to read the explanatory statement, the request would have already been submitted – but you can do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18864	No, I'll stop. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: You can also read the reasoning outside!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] The amendment concerns the notification requirement of this law. We must wait, as it were, for a positive or negative answer to come from Brussels, then we know what request the light of the world will see in reality. – Thank you very much and very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[17:05]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18972	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Erwin Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e18999	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Estimated listeners here on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker’s desk, on which, in the background of a photo of fruits and vegetables, a red hexagon is depicted with the inscription “Stop Glyphosate” and a green hexagon with the inscription “Start Bio-Wende”.]] The EU Commission has clearly stated that there is the possibility of issuing national bans on glyphosate application and authorisation, and I think that the debate on this item on the agenda can be a historical one with regard to a stop in the glyphosate application if the request we are making is also a corresponding majority. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am bringing forward the amendment tabled by Mr Erwin Preiner, Mr Mag. Dr Wolfgang Zinggl, colleagues on request 18/A. The application has already been distributed. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the EU's notification order is sufficient. Why are we firmly convinced that glyphosate should be completely banned in the application, on the one hand, on sealed areas, on parking, on playgrounds for children, on the other, but, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, in the field of agriculture and forestry, where glyphosate is applied to 90 percent? We are, I think, committed to the precautionary principle. Many international studies have already shown that glyphosate poses a risk to human and animal health in use. The WHO has also described the final outcome in this way. I'm just addressing the problem of non-hodgkin lymphoma here. Glyphosate use can also have a negative effect on the hormone budget of humans and animals. I therefore seek advance approval of this amendment and therefore a change to the Plant Protection Act. Ladies and gentlemen. Many municipalities – well over a third of the Austrian communities – are no longer in use in the public, municipal area of Glyphosate. There are enough alternatives to this. Every week, almost every day, other communities come to say clearly: In the public sector, we don't want to do that! But that's too short from my point of view. There are alternatives in the application, namely in the field of mechanical application, also in the field of thermal application, but also in the field of biological possibilities, which are biodegradable and have exactly the same effect as glyphosate, but with the difference that they are not toxic, neither for humans nor for animals. We also have a deadline for this request at the last plenary session, ladies and gentlemen, with time limit 1. It was decided on July this year. I would like to thank all those who have agreed to this request and I do not understand that there was no meeting of the Committee on Agriculture in which we could have discussed this issue. It was mentioned by my previous speaker that yesterday, by chance or not a day before today's plenary session, the feasibility study commissioned by the Ministry of Sustainability, was presented, but not by the Ministry itself, but by the Boku and the Ages. [[Call at the ÖVP: We did them first!]] There are content that clearly shows that there has been no new empirical research results used to produce this study, although science already shows something quite different. I think that this study is therefore partly very superficial. No new findings from the international scientific experts have been incorporated into this feasibility study, colleagues and colleagues! Again: Up to 90 percent of the amount of glyphosate applied is used in agriculture and forestry. One problem that results from this is that glyphosate is tolerated by the wind up to 300, 400, 500 meters, also on areas on which organic farming is operated, so that the organic farmers can also get problems when glyphosate residues appear on bioareas. We have been standing for years on the part of SPÖ for the sustainable strengthening of organic farming and also for the sustainable strengthening of healthy food and food, also in order to ensure that, for example, in the new CAP 2020+ more funding will also be provided by Austrian taxpayers in pesticides reduction programmes and that organic farming must be further strengthened, for people have the right to take on healthy food and food. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can also mention that glyphosate can not only be demonstrated in beer, but also in the urine – 30 percent of the urine samples have shown this. But I can also tell you that glycosate has to be shown in the blood. I've got a glyphosate from a German lab here. [[The speaker holds a document in the height on which green-yellow-red beams can be seen.]] Unfortunately, I have to say that it is my own finding that the glyphosate limit has been personally exceeded with me. I operated agriculture in the conventional sector until 2013 and have never used glyphosate in my own winery. I repeat: Unfortunately, the upper limit value has been exceeded by me, and I am not afraid to present my own blood findings regarding glycosate here and to present them to the public. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That, I think, is evidence enough that glyphosate is very likely to be a problem for the health of humans and animals, that glyphosate is also a problem related to the species dying. We have been presented with a UN study quite a while ago, indicating that a million out of eight million species have already been adopted by this world. There was also a study by the University of Nimwegen, in which it was made clear that over the past 25 years, 75 percent of insects have disappeared in Central Europe. But we need bees and wild bees to pollinate our fruit trees. If we continue to act like this and with regard to these many empirical scientific findings and results the head is still stuck in the sand, then the development does not work well for us. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, the three judgments against Monsanto in the U.S. showed that glyphosate is very likely to pose a great danger to people. Another 13,000 complaints are in the pipeline and pending. Ladies and gentlemen, you must not play with your health. I come to the conclusion: The health is the highest good that every person has, and therefore one has to deal with it carefully. Policy has the task and responsibility to be sustainable here in the National Council and in the course of the subsequent vote on human health in Austria and not to engage in populism. With health one does not play, even with the health of subsequent generations. In this sense, I also hope, in the sense of the precautionary principle, that there may be as broad a consent as possible to a total ban on the use of glycosate from January 2020 onwards. [[Abg. Jarolim: time (to the red glowing lamb on the speaker’s console)!]] – Thank you for your attention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19338	The amendment was presented in the broad outlines, distributed to all Members and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Dipl.-Ing. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19366	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Yeah, that's a real mood decision today. She doesn't fall easy on me, and she doesn't fall easily at NEOS. We decided: NEOS will support both the application of the ÖVP and the SPÖ application on the subject of glyphosat. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Why do we have so much abdominal pain? – I will explain it to you: Because both applications are in fact populist and that is simply not the point of the matter. The total ban on SPÖ, based on the precautionary principle, as the colleague has just put it, will not go through with the current legal situation – that can be confirmed by every European legal person. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And the soft dishwasher variant of the ÖVP doesn't go far enough. It deceives political activity, but it simply needs more to be done. Why, though, do we still agree with both proposals today? There are three reasons: On the one hand, from our point of view, we must maintain the discourse and continue the discussion on the subject, in fact, because, as Mr Strasser has already said, it is at the moment a very emotional debate that no longer allows material argumentation. That's why you have to keep this discussion at the corner and talk to experts and the media about it. Above all, these uncertainties, which exist not only among farmers, but above all among citizens, must be addressed, with material information. - That's the reason. The second reason is that there seems to be new scientific evidence that might justify a ban on glyphosate at European level – I may say and might say, because so far, the studies that have been conducted by the Ages have the Boku or many other experts at European level have also done nothing in common with these new studies, which have now been presented by the SPÖ and which show really massively different results from the studies we have had available so far. That is why we should, of course, take a close look at this, stay in conversation about it and make a consensus. As far as the third reason is concerned, I am quite frankly also concerned that we, Mrs Federal Minister, are now putting pressure on you as a Federal Minister and also on future governments and Federal Ministers, because it is about creating framework conditions and, above all, providing alternatives to agriculture that can then be applied. We all know here in this hall and also outside: Glyphosate has long had an expiry date, and that is also in Brussels. It is about Glyphosate, no matter how the scientific discussion finally proceeds, currently has such an image problem that after 2022 an extension of approval would be about as likely as a zebra herd in Alaska. It is all the more important that we go into the alternatives, and a common approach with the European Union is very important, because at the end of the day it cannot be that our domestic farmers on the one hand have a competitive disadvantage, because they pay the political bill, and consumers on the other hand find products in supermarkets produced within Europe as we did in Austria. These two points don't come together for me. I don't want to be misunderstandingd either: We are skeptical of glyphosate for good reasons, but we, as MEPs in this country, are committed to an objective policy, and our aim must therefore be to support our Austrian agriculture in the process of change. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19442	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19463	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! On the one hand, it is already understandable that the companies, with all their possibilities, are trying to maintain the good business they have operated with glyphosate and continue to operate. It would, of course, be disastrous for them if it were to be banned. Especially for Monsanto – that is now Bayer – this would probably be a radical loss in their business activities. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have a civil society that does not make profits, but is concerned about the health of people and also concerns about the environment. We already know that there are the most diverse studies – cancer-stimulating or just cancer-promoting. One thing is certain: There is a correlation between diseases and glyphosate, which the World Health Organization has also definitely established. Not without reason, there are thousands of complaints against Monsanto in the United States, so now Bayer, and as we have already heard and know, some of them have already been quite clumsy for the large corporations, for the companies that sell glyphosat. The whole discussion reminds me a little of the discussion about the power plant in the Lobau or also the nuclear power plant in Zwentendorf. There, too, the economy and, in particular, the electricity-producing economy, the energy supply industry, have insisted on building these power plants, because Austria could no longer produce electricity. In the meantime, we know that the two power plants were not built, and we still have electricity. It also reminds me a little of the discussion on the genetic manipulation of food. It is interesting that just this company, Monsanto, on the one hand, distributes the seed for the genetically modified foods and on the other hand sells the glyphosate, which destroys all plants. That is, first of all, the glyphosate is sold, then nothing grows there, and then you need the genetically engineered grain, which is resistant to glyphosate, so that something grows again. This is, of course, a double mill from which you can live excellently. Anyway, any studies – there will still be long discussions – are going to be conducted, glyphosate is not an active substance that benefits the environment. Mr Strasser, you will probably admit that. Last but not least, your request, the request of the EIA in the sense of a private and public land ban, is due to the fact that this is a dangerous active substance. I don't quite have the logic: On the one hand, you come up with a study that impoverishes the active substance glyphosate, and on the other hand, you want to ban it there and then – we think far too little, because we know that glyphosate is not only dangerous if it is applied in the private sector, but of course also in food production. It's just a poison; the professionals would say it's very toxic. It's just a dangerous poison. This poison is almost characteristic of an old thinking in agriculture, which goes less towards sustainability, which argues less for the good of health than for the good of the food industry. An argument in this sense is the competitiveness lost by Austrian agriculture when it is reared by foreign producers who are very likely to use glyphosate. This is a cynical argument, which I would like to demask here again and again. It is about the same argument as if we wanted to reintroduce child labour again, because there are countries that allow child labour, and so we have to remain competitive or become again. So: Poison the ground to remain competitive, it can't be! Finally, I would like to make a kind of small monument to my former colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Wolfgang Pirklhuber was the Member of Parliament who first pointed out this danger in June 2012 by producing a bottle of Roundup. He wanted Glyphosate to be banned at the time. At the time, there was not a Member who had just spoken. His remarks and his request were simply swept away from all, both from the coalition parties, from the then government and from the other opposition parties. I hardly expect him to watch now because I think he has already experienced enough of such meetings live, but: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] The fact that the glyphosate ban is coming in Austria is not least due to him as a pioneer, and I thank him again for it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19517	The next item is the speech by Mr Klaus Lindinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19543	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers in front of the TV screens and on the gallery! We are dealing here with two applications on the subject of glyphosate, on the one hand with a partial prohibition of glyphosate, introduced by us, and on the other hand with a total ban brought by the SPÖ. I am particularly pleased that yesterday the feasibility study on glyphosate, commissioned by the Federal Government, was presented. I would like to thank all the scientists of the University of Soil Culture and the Food Safety Agency who have participated. In this study, it was found that a total ban on glyphosate-containing plant protection products is non-injurious. It has also been found that this active substance poses no increased risk and therefore no risk to human health. Similarly, it has been found that there are no alternatives at present in arable farming. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, on your request: The same application was filed in the Kärntner Landtag about two years ago. [[Abg. Ecker: Not the same!]] [[Abg. Light peace: Neither the same nor the same!]] The Commission's explanations on this matter were sobering. The conclusion is as follows: ‘The Communication states that the European Commission considers an absolute ban to be inadmissible.’ Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you have not learned much from the past and you have not read anything from this feasibility study. A total ban is not legal! The liberals here in this House are still supporting this request. It can't be! It's pure populism. Pure populism in the knowledge of making a request that is illegal is a mere suffrage that you are doing here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it would be much more important to improve the competitiveness of Austrian agriculture. Let us see that the products imported and placed in the shelves of the food trade chains have the same production standards as we have in Austria. That would be important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This would enable us to ensure, on the one hand, small-structured agriculture in Austria. On the other hand, we must also be careful – and therefore my appeal – that we do not sell Austrian agriculture through free trade agreements such as Mercosur, which is currently being negotiated. There needs to be discussed at the level of the eye, but certainly not on the back of agriculture, then we also stand for it. Values Consumers, you have it in hand, grab When you buy regional food, you make your contribution to climate protection and support Austrian agriculture! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We as the People's Party stand for the development of regional food production. I believe that the SPÖ's request and the decision here in this House show that the coalition between SPÖ – Mr Preiner, Mr Preiner! – and FPÖ relies on populist farm-enemy decisions. [[Abg. Preiner: You! You're running suffrage!]] [[Abg. Preiner: You're running electorate!]] These two parties cannot be chosen either in autumn. We are behind the Austrian farmers, we are behind food production in Austria and we stand for Austrian agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19657	Next speaker: Mrs Cornelia Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19681	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. Minister! We also stand with our farmers and, above all, with our organic farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My predecessors, Mr Strasser and Mr Lindinger, I would like to understand your logic. On the one hand, you want a glyphosate ban in sensitive areas, near kindergartens, playgrounds, schools, because there is concern. In agriculture, however, when it is sprayed on cereals, it is suddenly no longer worrying. That's pure client policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] With the decision of the deadline application for the ban on glycosate, Parliament has done something that it has not done for a long time: It has made decisions in the sense of people, and I am proud of that. Yesterday, as has been said, this study on Glyphosate's exit was quite surprising – without prior notice, not even the countries received a preliminary information, and these were finally and finally co-contractors of this study. In addition, an assessment period of up to the 15th. ==References== Don't be angry with me, 200 pages fast in 14 days, that's not correct! That's not correct. This is a political maneuver, which should influence the voting behaviour here in the House today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The organic farming shows: Austria doesn't need glyphosate, we can do it without it. It is little surprising that this Köstinger study concludes that the use of glyphosate is inconceivable and even indispensable in some areas of agriculture – so really, sorry! – the former Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Köstinger, was a glowing advocate of glyphosate. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Lightenness: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Crist: Incredible!]] However, the study also brought to light other circumstances that I would have liked to light up. I miss the call when it is read in the study that, despite bans, there are siccations through a derogation. In Austria, sikkation is forbidden. For those who do not know this word: This is the production of pesticides shortly before the harvest of cereals. It is forbidden and nevertheless it is often made, and there must finally be consequences. Where's the call, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm not surprised that we find glyphosate in the urine of humans and even in breast milk. That can't be it, I don't want an Austria like that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am also aware that the abandonment of pesticides in agriculture is a major challenge. It's clear to me, but the organic farming makes it up to us. That is why the funding system has been changed. It no longer belongs in terms of area, but in terms of jobs. This would also bring us much more people into agriculture and create jobs in agriculture. [[Abg. Zarits:... promote measures! You have no idea!]] – I certainly have an idea, and such an insult has no place in this house, really not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say one thing: Dear colleagues from the ÖVP, I really regret it, I find it a pity as a consumer, I find it a pity as a mother and I find it a pity as an elected representative of the people who make you a client policy in this area. It's just unbearable. I would like to conclude with a quote from an expert from Greenpeace, Sebastian Theissing-Matei: “Whoever seriously believes in protecting people and the environment [...] must support this application for a [...] ban on glycosate in Austria.” Thank you very much to those who support us in our proposal for a reasonable policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19800	The next item is the speech by Mr Karl Schmidhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19824	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated audience at the gallery! Values Seer at home in front of the screens! Dear colleague Jörg Leichtfried, I already have to give you an answer that you started today in the early days with the fact that our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is not here. I should like to remind you that it was the SPÖ that made the request, which is the reason for the fact that the Federal Chancellor is not in the house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: He can be a Member for God's sake!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Since when is he again Federal Chancellor?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Second point: In the live stream it is to be checked that the President-in-Office of the SPÖ was not in plenary today, even most of the time of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you are paid for it while others are not paid and are not there. I just wanted to hold that once before I started. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the subject of glyphosate. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers, Klaus and Georg...
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19891	Mr President, you don't have a microphone now, I've taken it short. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am seeking to reduce the general level of noise again. [[Call the ÖVP: Call it! The SPÖ!]] Intervocations also have the function that they are understood, that is now no longer the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you can continue to speak well now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19938	Thank you, Madam President. I can thank my previous speakers, dear Klaus, dear Georg, you have actually said everything on the subject. I should just like to point out that our farmers in our country are violent, not just as regards the production of healthy food, But especially when it comes to infrastructure in this country, when it comes to providing ski slopes, providing areas for tourism. You have to see this as a whole. In particular, I should like to ask the members of the FPÖ: Perhaps you can go along with our request! Finally, the Austrian People's Party is the party that is still under the arms of the Austrian farmers and supports them; and we may also ask that this remain so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19977	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maximilian sub-rainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e19996	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! [[Call the SPÖ: Let's go, Max!]] Mr Schmidhofer, just to add: There is no German chancellor in short, there is not even a parliamentarian in short, he is private man, not anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To Mr Lindinger: Dear Klaus, you said: There is no alternative, so you have to allow glyphosate. – Now, if you're going to think about it, it'd just be like: Since there's no alternative, it's meaty when people get sick or die. – I don’t think that can be the right conclusion, and it’s certainly not mine. On the contrary, I am glad that glyphosate is banned in Austria today, because it is a disaster that can cause glyphosate in this world. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] It is quite clear not to apply glyphosate in Austria, because we are finally promoting with natural products, with organic products, with regionality, with health, with sustainability, and this positive trend in organic farming must not be interrupted in Austria. Mr. Strasser, you mentioned it yourself earlier: 25 percent of all our agricultural land is organic. Mr Preiner also mentioned that glyphosate is also involved in this area. I don't think the right answer can be from your side that the organic farmers will lose the certifications because their products can suddenly also detect glyphosate. To what happened today: In the short term, it seemed as if the application to ban glyphosat was not decided. It has looked as if the majority in this house were no longer against the poisoning and destruction of our meadows, fields, forests and sources. Finally, however, – at least as it now looks – the reason has won, after all, health is an absolutely protective good. You must never forget, we only have a health. The fact that the Committee's decision to ban glyphosat would have almost been tilted just the day before today's plenary has a lot to do with this feasibility study, which has already been mentioned today. This feasibility study has already been promised to us for the summer of 2018 and now, see, it is suddenly on the table. I do not believe that it is a coincidence that this feasibility study is here now and has the content that a total ban would not be compatible with EU law and that there is no risk of glyphosate. It is also interesting to note, however, that EU illegality in other decisions, such as family aid in ÖVP, seems to have played no role at all and could be done without further delay. This study states, as said, that glyphosate poses no threat. It would be just like sausage – like sausage? Okay. Increased consumption of sausage and ham increases the risk of cancer – a statement of this feasibility study. Somehow this reminds me of this Ibizafan Strache, who at the time meant all serious in the discussion about the ban on smoking, that the eating of pig bread would be just as dangerous as smoking. [[Abg. Neubauer: What does this have to do with Ibiza?]] But this may have other reasons. What I want to say is very simple: How much sausage, how much ham, how much pigbread you eat, everyone can choose for himself. How much glyphosate you take, you can't decide for yourself because you just can't figure out where glyphosate is inside and how much is inside. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] Above all things: The International Cancer Research Agency has also found that glyphosate is at least “likely carcinogenic”. The condemnation of a pharmaceutical group, as mentioned today, speaks another language, so it is very dangerous and can lead to very serious diseases. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing, I think, is very, very important, and we must never forget that: Profit must never go at the expense of health and the environment. That's the point. That's why I'm in such a way that glyphosate is banned today. With the ban on glycosate, another important step is taken to protect the environment, to protect our health. In this sense: Thank you very much for your approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20060	Next speaker: Mr Walter Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20085	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Lady and Lord on the Government Bank! High house! Inputs: The FPÖ has been standing for years for a glyphosate ban – this only so that it doesn't stand in the room like that. All the accusations that come from the ÖVP, dear Georg Strasser, that this would be a constituency: We must also address the government programme, which we have jointly decided, in which there has been a common exit scenario until 2022. So here you have to put everything on the table. Mr Lindinger, that this is an anti-farm, populist measure, and that is not correct, because the government programme, which you have also contributed personally, states that we have decided to do so for farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: What do they look like?]] I'm asking you: You'll know your own government program, I hope you haven't forgotten it! Nevertheless: Who has disbanded this federal government unilaterally? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We have a very clear timetable here, which we have also set out together with you. Something from history: ==References== In October 2017, the then Federal Minister Rupprechter was here invited by the National Council to speak against the further extension of this product in the European Commission. That was a majority decision. He has implemented this, the only problem that still existed was that Germany has abstained from the vote. That is why there has been a further extension until 2022. Now we are faced with the situation that we must look at this product in the sense of Austrian health in all the studies that exist. But let's really leave the church in the village! There are several indications in this area that studies have been faked, in which entire textual passages have been copied by industries and by corporations that put this product in a bad light. These are the facts. Nevertheless, we will decide on the path of a total ban. Our starting points are – and here again, as mentioned earlier, we stand to our government programme, which we have decided together with you: We will also call for an agricultural label for products imported from abroad, i.e. that there should not be this competitive disadvantage for domestic agriculture in this way. This competitive disadvantage is of course known to us. I assume that the SPÖ will also carry it in such a way that it has recognised this problem in this way too. We will work together on these compensatory measures for agriculture by autumn – I will stretch out my hands here – with all the political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20133	The next item is the speech by Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20155	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! As a consumer protection speaker, I can only say: Today is a good day for consumers in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can clap again: It is also a good day for the organic farming in Austria, because, as I said, 25 percent of the agricultural land in Austria is organically managed. One thing is clear: If we manage to enforce this total ban on glyphosate, the quality of domestic food will continue to increase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These will be even more attractive, and that is exactly what we support, namely this appeal: Buy regional! – You know, you get a product that is guaranteed to be glyphosate-free. It is a problem where glyphosate is found everywhere today: in baby diapers, in the body, in the urine, in waters. It is claimed that glyphosate is so little in use and can be proved almost nowhere. We know that glyphosate has the quality that it can be very well fed. Glyphosate can be detected in 60 percent of the surface waters in Austria. That's not nothing! I think we have something to do. With regard to labelling: We have been calling for labelling for many, many years. I also believe that we could begin to demand glyphosate freedom in the AMA seal, for example. We'd be in control of this in Austria. We also had the subject of how legally that is. I should like to remind you once again of the debate at the beginning of the plenary debate when it was felt that this new compensation allowance, which was created, was not exportable. We have different opinions here. With the glyphosate you are now of different opinion, you think this ban will not be observed. [[towards ÖVP]] Based on the statements of our experts, we believe that we have sufficiently explained and explained and also secured and that it will last. And that's important. I do not understand the farmers either. It has been shown that glyphosate harms soil organisms, that it affects the rainworms, that it has a negative influence on the most important means of production that agriculture has, namely soil. I therefore do not understand why we are so opposed to this exit. If there are any concerns here, I can only say one thing: Look at your colleagues who work organic farming! How do they do? – Obviously, there is a solution for all these problems which you have repeatedly shown to you. They show daily that these solutions are available. The reason I'm just disappointed by you is that you say: We forbid it in the public sector, because they can't do that! We're the professionals! - And that's it. Where are accompanying measures? If you already say that a total ban on glycosate is not imaginable for you – Germany shows it. There is at least the requirement, which is also set out in the Boku report, of at least 10 percent of biodiversity areas. Not even this minimal approach to improving this situation occurs in you. In the end, I can only emphasize and emphasize one more thing: It is important to me that we have healthy food in Austria. The principle is always: There can be nothing inside of a product that has not previously come in. I can only say: I don't want any glyphosate in food. That is why the ban is an important decision for consumers today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20221	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on item 15 on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Arbitrators and colleagues included draft law concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Preiner, Dr Zinggl, colleagues. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Preiner, Dr Zinggl, colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Sobotka rises from his place.]] [[Abg. Krainer: That wouldn't be so wrong now! You can do something right sometimes!]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the title and receipt of the draft law as amended by the proposal for an initiative. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall then come to the third reading immediately. If the draft law is approved in third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – The draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on item 16 on the item in the motion for a resolution (Doc. 909/A) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster, colleagues, and others included draft legislation concerning a federal law amending the Plant Protection Act. For this purpose, MEPs have received Dipl.-Ing. Mr Straster, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Strasser, colleagues and others have tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 1 and the resulting renumbering. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Krainer: Don't go out!]] Now I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the present draft law, including title and receipt, in the version of the proposal for an initiative, to have a sign of approval. – That is the minority, rejected. [[17:52:10]] 17. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (623 D.B._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which liability law is amended (Hftungsrechts-Amendingsgesetz 2019 – ImprisonmentRÄG 2019) (656 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20296	In this way we reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr. Dr. Johannes Jarolimzu spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20326	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, I think one can really say that we can congratulate ourselves on looking forward to a poisonous future and finally ending this long discussion, and I can also recall one – we have discussed it more often –: Mrs Köstinger was in the European Parliament and would have had it in his hand to make sure that we no longer have this poison delivery here in Austria, that our consumers are no longer illuminated with it. That didn't happen. I don't understand. I believe that it would also be important to do persuasive work there. In the meantime, in the United States, the glyphosate is being executed with sanctions in millions. Of course, this already has a reason, namely, in the massive health risk. If we have discussions here that go completely beyond reality, you should look into the USA: There are court decisions that explain this very well. We are now coming to the next item on the agenda, which is already related to it, because, for my incomprehensible reasons, you are actually acting as if you were representing the farmers, but if you were really in favour of the farmers, then you would have made available those alternatives that were possible – and they would have been possible in this respect. There was – we can all remember – this unfortunate incident with the cow that a person had trampled down, and then the Court of Justice took a decision that was certainly not beneficial for the individual farmer. In fact, all of them believe that support must be given to the rural population and that they do not have to impose these high penalties, namely damages in many cases. From the outset, therefore, the discussion has always been that we find an insurance solution in favour of the rural population. That was quite clear until Mr. Kurz came – perhaps also Mrs. Köstinger, I don't know – and explained: But it must not cost! – If it does not cost anything, then of course you have to create a legal regime. She looks like this: I have rarely found such a miserable bill as those we are supposed to decide today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kühberger: You always say that by every law! We already know that! Always the same sentences!]] This is to deal with the question, Mr President, as one makes sure that the alm no longer has a cow trampling down someone; and then there is a legislative text. I would recommend: Print this out, hang it on the alm so people can read it! I'll read you a little bit. Think who's supposed to understand this! - Thank you. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There it says: The assessment of the person concerned who goes to the pasture shall be carried out in accordance with the “hazardousness of the animals” known to him – that is, to the farmer. Secondly, He has “to take the appropriate means to avoid such dangers and, thirdly, to take the foreseeable self-responsibilities of other persons”. - So the person concerned should know: What is more or less recommended for the other? It also says: “The expected self-responsibility of the visitors of pastures and pastures is based on the dangers posed by the pasture and pasture industry, the transport practice and applicable rules of conduct.” Ladies and gentlemen, if you're going to raise this nonsense somewhere on the alm -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20361	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to withdraw the word 'damage'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20376	I'll take this back, but excuse me. [[Abg. Kühberger: Always the same sentences! Always!]] That is absolutely anything but a solution. And to sell such a thing as a solution and to heat farmers more or less into problems, instead of really helping them, I find it insolent and especially unapproached for the party, which today has repeatedly explained from the speaker's desk that it is in favour of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kurz, whom you have also quoted here, you can ask why he does not help farmers with an insurance solution. This would have been possible, has been discussed by all at the outset. Now we have this Murks here, but I believe that Mr Noll will do this even more. I think you're going to fall on your head relatively massively, and I'm not sorry in this case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20416	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20437	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As already reported, 2014 has resulted in a tragic fatal accident on a Tyrolean alm and at the end of 2018 has become a first-time debt claim. The Tyrolean farmer was sentenced to a compensation of around 500 000 euros. As a result, there was a great outrage in the population and a great uncertainty among those ladies and gentlemen who managed an alm, but also among those ladies and gentlemen who spend their leisure time there touristing or sporting nature. I am grateful to the old Federal Government, Elli Köstinger for the initiative, Sebastian Kurz for the solutions that have been launched here. I would like to briefly explain this, because it is not only legal issues that have been clarified and better regulated, but it has also been done a lot in the field of prevention. For the first time, a code of conduct has been created for the use of the pastures. Together with farmers, together with leisure-seekers, a text was prepared with the leisure industry, an indication of how to behave when animals are on the pasture. This is important because the tourists are getting more, and the mother cows on the pastures often react to masses of people. Secondly, we defined farmers how animals can be kept on a pasture and on a pasture. This too is, as it were, a guide to good agricultural practice and an improvement in comparison to the situation we had before. The third area concerns matters relating to the animal husband's paragraphs, § 1320 in the ABGB. I can now interpret this – not legally, for I am unfortunately not a lawyer, but, so to speak, in German: On the one hand, it is possible to refer to the standards we have defined together with all stakeholders in a procedure; on the other hand, the rights and obligations of farmers who remain farmers at the level of the farmers, as they are now, as they are now established and as worked out in the previous Judicatur. But – and this is the difference – the self-responsibility of those seeking leisure will increase, and that is really the improvement; the improvement in order to ensure a better interaction and greater legal certainty on the pastures. Mr Jarolim, as regards insurance: That was also evaluated by us. Many farmers also have insurance solutions. Many tourism regions have insurance solutions that should be taken care of in the event of an emergency. But from my legal access, I say that insurance must always be the last means of choice, because in practice it simply works better then. In this sense: thank you very much for this initiative to the old Federal Government! It is thus guaranteed to co-operate on the alpine pastures. The pastures belong to the identity, to the landscape of Austria, and we want to have it that way in the future. – For this reason a great thank you and all the good for the upcoming alm season!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20483	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Irmgard Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20504	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I can try and get some things straight. What's that about? – It is now about whether it is necessary to innovation § 1320 ABGB, whether this second paragraph, which now comes into the law, brings more security, improves it compared to the current state. And I'm sorry to tell you: No, it doesn't change at all. It doesn't change anything at all! Although § 1320 remains the same as it is now, the cases will be decided in the future as they have been decided so far. Of course, these standards of conduct, which are addressed here, only apply – this is not a regulation or a regulation – if they comply with the principles of case law. This is also reflected in the explanatory remarks: in accordance with the principles of case law. – Yes, but then it is true anyway! If you say, Yes, but the people are now enlightened because we are § 1320 para. 2 then show me the one or the one who is in front of an almswalk, or the farmer who, before he drives his cattle up, looks at the ABGB. I don't think that's happening. What the hell is this about? – It is about the fact that both parts, i.e. the farmers as well as the hikers on the pastures, have to respect certain standards of care. The farmer, who knows he's got a dangerous cow, can't let her walk around freely. The farmer who has mother cow holding and knows that mother cows, when the calf is nearby, are allergic to reaction when a dog comes, must set up a board: Watch mother cowkeeping, watch out for your dog! or so – what happens anyway and what the OGH has already decided so far. If a hiker is on the alm, then of course he also has a personal responsibility when he goes with the dog; then he cannot let the dog run there. However, this is true because we have a provision in the ABGB – § 1304 – regarding co-indebtedness. If I've been hurt by my due diligence, I'll have to take part of the damage. - So that's like before. Now maybe you'll tell me: Yes, but now we have started this information campaign, we have prepared these brochures! – Yes, you can do that as well, you do not need a second paragraph of § 1320 ABGB. But why did you do it? Why do you want to do this? – Because precisely because of the judgment this excitement arose, which was totally unwarranted. Never-man of those who have been jealous of it has read the judgment and said: Well, this balance of interests is actually wrong! And I'm convinced: If the judge decided today and that would have already entered into force, then the same would come out again. In addition, it was a first instance decision, and we have three instances in Austria – that is, after the national court, the Oberlandesgericht and then the Supreme Court. If a first court decides, that doesn't mean it's final now. In this case, I still believe that it will keep – I don't know – but, in any case, because of a first instance judgment, whose content you don't know, you can't bring a scandal, a danger, and so on, as if the case law were coming, the courts of their task wouldn't come down and then the legislator would have to intervene. This approach poses two major dangers. Although the second paragraph of § 1320 does not harm, what are the dangers? – The one danger is that the farmers now think: So now it's regulated! Our representatives have told us they're doing something for us, and now we don't need to be careful! – That's one. And the second is what you've done with it – for this publicist success, or what you're supposed to call it –: You have damaged the reputation of the courts! People now think: Well, the courts, what they decide! Thank God we still have our Members who do this again. [[Abg. Stefan: As in the ban on smoking!]] I don't think the few votes that you win are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20541	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Volker Tireberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20562	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Austria is a mountain country – even in our German anthem it is said: “Land of the mountains” – but Austria is also a tourist country. The alpine economy has been operating with us for centuries, and the alpine industry is also in the public interest, which is why it is also financially funded. The tragic unhappiness and the controversial judgment that followed, which was almost the trigger for the discussion underlying this change of law, are, I believe, already known to all, Mrs Griss, and the cry in agriculture was quite great. After years of court proceedings, the farmer concerned was sentenced to six-digit compensation. In the Court's view, it was too little in this case to point out the risks posed by cows. The alert painters set up: Respect mother cowkeeping!, were not sufficient. In the Court's view, the farmer should have fenced the pasture at least in this area where the accident centre was located. I am from the state of Salzburg, and this issue is being discussed very emotionally, as is the case in Tyrol, for example, where this incident has happened. It would be disastrous if, as a result of excessive liability, the pasture and pasture economy were to be stopped. Without a management, the pastures would quickly forest, and this would be a huge damage to the local tourism industry. The animals would then have to spend the summer in the valley, often in the stable. It makes sense, therefore, to write the expected responsibility into the law; Self-reliance – a principle that is often far too short in our casho society. [[Abg. Griss shakes the head.]] We're not doing anything but writing the house's mind into the law. We do not want to have any American conditions where for every accident, whatever tragedy it may be, we always have to find a debtor who has to bear the liability. Nor do we want farmers to have to run their farms in the legal form of a company with limited liability in order not to threaten their existence economically. Should We Leave Our Natural Alm pastures cut off the hikers through miles of fences? – This is not possible at all in many parts of our country, second inconceivable and not reasonable. The ABGB is over 200 years old, and the paragraph we supplement today has been changed for the last time in 1917 – that is, more than 100 years ago. But the times have changed. The recreational athletes are becoming more and more, and with their e-bikes they are conquering the alpine pastures more and more. This inevitably leads to conflicts to which the legislator has to respond. But let's not forget: Our farmers do not keep dangerous predators on their pastures. If one believed such a headline of the Boulevard media, one would have to believe that the cow was the worst natural enemy of man. One might almost think that our domestic cattle would have had a sluggish mutation, the grinding teeth had become sharp teeth, and all of a sudden they were humane beasts. Many, however, forget their self-responsibility that cows often see their dogs as a threat and that cows protect their calves, especially in breeding because of the natural instinct. Just as there are FIS rules in ski law, which are used in liability for debt and co-indebtedness, there should also be appropriate rules of conduct for hikers who are used. Certain rules of play also need it for the users of alpine roads. Even though Mrs Griss and now Mr Noll, with purely legal arguments against this change of law, are legal arguments, I am in favour of putting a clear sign here for our farmers and that we are behind the traditional alm economy on this issue. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Just legal – say that devaluing, or what? Do you say that devaluatingly?]] We do not have legal discussions at the university, but we do something for agriculture in our country! It is also a very clear political message that we communicate with it. Apply If you are a lawyer with the Minister of Justice at the Ministry, you are certainly well-informed there, this work will certainly do you good, but please do not regard yourself as a politician who wants to change something positively in this country! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Noll, you will come to the speaker's desk and you will certainly say that you too have Salzburg roots. However, you seem to have been away for too long from Salzburg and too long in Vienna, so that you can no longer properly appreciate the situation on site; and probably you have not entered the pasture for many years.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20625	Mr Alfred Noll has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20646	I'm a long time ago. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of JETZT, SPÖ and NEOS.]] So: In fact, this paragraph 2 of § 1320 – Mr Jarolim’s speech on the part of the President – is a swirl. This is not the judgment of a person who has only been a lawyer for 36 years – that is probably too little to offer colleagues here in his country Paroli – nor is it just the judgment of a lawyer who has been a lawyer for more than a quarter of a century and has to do with liability matters, nor is it the judgment of a university professor – all of this does not matter against the mother cow milk alliance of his colleague Strasser – but it is the judgment of the Supreme Court in the opinion on this law. Now you can say: The lawyers are all stupid, because only we politicians do something for the people!, but when it comes to a law, the opinion of lawyers is not entirely irrelevant. If the Supreme Court in its opinion says that this is simply superfluous, and warns against it, by these legistic nebula grenades, with which you leave to fend for yourself, any legal relevance and any significant added value, then you should take it seriously. Now you can say: These OGH judges, well, these are paid State servants, they are probably all politically ordered! . We could also look at the opinion of the Austrian Bar Association on this bill, which is even more cruel. They say it's completely wrong! – And this is not just a matter of purely legal formalism, because you do not really believe that the judges of the Supreme Court or those who have made this statement for the ÖRAK have nothing to do with the lives of the people in that country. It's just a superfluous swirl. Now we can figure this out in a row: If the first sentence is: “In the pasture and pasture industry can the holder [...]” – Can? - Well, you can do a lot. Can't he or can't he? Should he or should he not? - He can. Well, I don't need a legislator to say that a person in this country can do anything, because that's either a fact claim and it's right or it's wrong, but I don't need a law for it. [[Rejoicing and condolences with Members of JETZT and NEOS]] And now the Clou is coming: He can “draw ” something. - What? Does he have to turn around when he needs the standards because he takes back? – This is legislative nonsense, and I say this in spite of the words of the President-in-Office. That's not good.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20693	Mr President, you have, of course, said it very consciously, I know. To say it's not well, it's possible. [[Abg. Noll: I tried to explain myself!]] The other is, as it were, the accusation of mental disorder, and that is why it has to be reversed. [[Abg. Noll: I already did that!]] That's not appropriate in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20733	After the point in the first sentence, there is now a further legal accident at all. There's in the first sentence, the holder. can do something. ‘Other [...]’, this section continues. - What? If he can't, otherwise? – First of all, it’s just not German, and it’s second legally absurd. And it actually remains in the judgment of the Supreme Court: It's superfluous and has no added value. Last point: Who makes the standards? That's the talk of accepted standards. - What? In the respective municipality, in the respective district, generally recognized standards in the respective country? Or is it a practice of fair traffic, of recognized rules of technology? . Everything here is so undetermined, so that Mrs Griss' judgment is the only true one: You're supposed to save yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20774	Mrs Mag.a Gertraud Salzmann will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20795	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! The well-kept alpine meadows, the magnificent mountain panorama, the delicious products in the managed mountain huts – all these are not only beautiful pictures from a catalogue, but that is what we experience in the summer and autumn with us, with me in Salzburg, but also in many other federal states daily. It is both for the locals and for the guests nature experience, acceleration and relaxation. The farmers, ladies and gentlemen, make a very important contribution to the maintenance and preservation of the countryside, and they work with great commitment and with great responsibility for our country. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kumpitsch.]] In my native country of Salzburg, but also in many other federal states in which the alpine economy is very rainy, the alpine pastures are a very important part – for agriculture, for the economy, for tourism, but also for leisure; therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for us to establish and ensure a good cooperation between the alpine operators and the alpine visitors. Mrs Griss, you are talking about this, and unfortunately I cannot understand that we, as legislators, are damaging the reputation of the courts because we pass a law. – Unfortunately, I can't understand that. Mr Noll, you are talking about the whole thing being an accident and a nonsense. - No, it's not! They are now only talking about § 1320 para. 2, which is now being added, but, ladies and gentlemen, please consider the package as a whole! Mrs. Federal Minister other than Elli Köstinger has drawn up an action plan for safe alpine pastures in her ministry. This action plan, Mr Noll, not only includes the amendment of § 1320 by adding paragraph 2, but also – very important and valuable! – a code of conduct for hikers to use the pastures. I am very busy on the pastures, and therefore I know how important it is to ask for this or also to point out to the guests consciously. - That's the first part. The second part, which is included in this overall package we are now talking about, is a consultant with recommendations for the alpine farmers and for the pasture farmers. I think that is very important. And to that, yes, comes § 1320 para. 2 ABGB. The amendment on animal husbandry liability, ladies and gentlemen, sees one Keep in accordance with recognised standards. The holder must therefore take measures which are necessary due to the known hazard of the animals, but which are also reasonable measures with a view to limiting the risks. And we value it: It really has to be included in the expected personal responsibility of the hikers. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we create a uniform framework for the behaviour of visitors on the pastures and pastures and for the operators of the pastures and pastures. We are a good partner, safety, but also legal certainty for both sides on the alpine pastures very important. I am allowed to wish all farmers and farmers a good and accident-free summer, and all the hikers and visitors on the pastures I wish a good rest in our beautiful home. Let's take a good look at each other! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20850	Next item is the report by Mr Maximilian Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20874	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Liability-amending law: The tragic incident in Tyrol and the resultant court ruling have not only triggered great discussions among the farmers, but – and this has fascinated me – I have been mistakenly addressed by many people and have said that it cannot be the responsibility of farmers alone. It cannot be that farmers bear the full responsibility, the process risk and, subsequently, the liability risk. It must also be a measure of personal responsibility for the people who use the pastures. Sometimes people are quite radical and say: It must not be that a farmer can be charged there! Whoever is above has the full responsibility to bear, and that is it! In my opinion, it is rooted in the awareness of people that the care of the cultural landscape, the care of the pastures only and alone is the work of farmers, and, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of idealism behind it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Due to the development of agriculture and the development of the population, there are some conflicts and problems. On the one hand, a modified form of operation should be mentioned: There are much more cows today, and the cows with the calves are being driven to pasture. There are more and more leisure activities, of course more and more dogs, and we know that just encountering dogs with cattle is problematic. It is sad – in the past it was only in the cities, unfortunately today it is also very often in the rural area – that many people lack the understanding of agriculture. The basic concepts, which were quite normal for us in our youth, are completely lacking in people today. And there are also crazy things. I remember that one and a half months ago a challenge was suddenly launched on Facebook: Kiss a cow and let yourself be photographed! - Crazy! In all these things, farmers were almost alone in liability. It was necessary to counter this to take action. A four-point plan has been launched: on the one hand, as a standard for farmers, that the farmers too It has been said that we need to look at the extent to which we are liable or where the measures need to be taken so that we are no longer liable; on the other hand, we need to clarify the rules of conduct for dealing with pasture cattle. That is exactly the point that many people today have no understanding of it at all. They go to the alm and believe a cow is a big petting animal and you can approach any animal. It was thanks to God some time ago in Carinthia a court judgment in which the judge was in a similar situation that every person who has an animal should have so much sense of the house to know that there is a risk from a bull with 750 kilograms of own weight. It was also necessary to write it down legally. There was a desire to anchor personal responsibility in the general bourgeois code, to set it down there in order to give the farmers the signal of legal certainty. Finally, of course, there is insurance as the last measure. Mr Griss and Mr Noll today call into question this measure from a legal point of view. . Ladies and gentlemen, we have had two possibilities: to do something to implement these four measures, or to do nothing, to risk that either many pastures will no longer be hit, or that this will happen much worse – many farmers have threatened us to go here and block the trails where they are going. We would have had huge, huge challenges in the municipalities to maintain a normal summer farm with hiking trails and mountain bike routes. I think that if you look at these two alternatives, you've done the right thing. These new arrangements are not an absolute free letter for us farmers, but they distribute responsibility at least on both sides, both to farmers and to the users of the pastures. I think that with a little self-reliance, which is also expected by users, it will also be possible in the future to operate the alpine economy in the sense of leisure users, but also in the sense of agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20935	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kühberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e20960	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! For the so-called alm-judgment – caused by many unfortunate circumstances; then the tragic death of this tourist in Tyrol by a single cow, which partly also has natural instincts and resisted itself, but I come later –: Now there is this first instance judgment with high claims for damages, and this is mainly about the existence of a family farm. This incident has, of course, been widely discussed and has led to a lot of uncertainty outside our rural family farms. We have read in the newspapers that it is about blocking areas and paths, others want the Almen no longer assaulted, and even in the general public it has, of course, been a great topic; no one has understood this judgment either. I'm very glad we're doing it. It's hugely important, I say as a farmer, but of course I also hear it outside, at our rural family farms, that we do something there. The Action Plan for Safe Almen: Please, we discussed that earlier, Mr Noll, Mrs Griss, that is what it was about insurance. It is important to me as a farmer and for tourism that no one is injured that we have rules of conduct that people know, which are set up like FIS rules. [[Abg. Noll: Well, we all want...!]] They're very, very important. Any accident with those who don't happen, we don't need to judge afterwards. Mrs. Griss, this law is 100 years old, and in 100 years very, very much changes. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But not your own responsibility...!]] We've heard a lot of experts who have dealt with it and certainly don't make any sense. Mrs Colleagues, you are speaking of your own responsibility: Self-reliance is now within this law for the first time, and that is quite, very important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is not true...!]] Mrs Colleagues, I am a mother-and-almbauer myself, and I can only say: There is a certain danger from a cow with a calf, but no one needs to be afraid if he knows these rules of conduct. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Noll.]] For example, there is inside – Mr. Jarolim tried to read it, but it seems to me that he was not quite successful – you must not take a picture, go to the cow, caress or feed. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] I know that when I'm a farmer, I have to take care of it myself. For comparison: If a dog had puppies, I wouldn't grab it, either, because it would wrap me. This is with our animals, that is with the pets, but also with the wild animals, and also in the family, I think, looks at every father, every mother on the child and protects it. This is nothing else in nature either. However, I would like to mention here the farmers in Austria who do a great job that produces good quality. This is a very important business in Austria; the calf is, of course, there with the cow, and we need it on our pastures. We already have the wolf as a challenge, and now we also have this story; we need to look at it. Agriculture and tourism, we are a strong partnership, we also need this added value, and we do not let ourselves be driven in there. There is a great deal of thanks to our mother cow farmers and to all the alpine farmers who are doing great work to keep these areas free, which look at biodiversity and, of course, also quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is urgently necessary to make this legal change that exists for the animal owner, for the real owner, legal certainty when someone is grossly negligent that he does not have to tremble when he lays down his areas around his existence. I can also give you a Council today – I am the last speaker in this debate –: It's very gay here today, also outside the city. Drive to our pastures, enjoy the nature that our farmers and farmers care for, of course you can also enjoy the cuisine and the cool, because unfortunately we do not have here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21047	Now Mrs Bundesminister Dipl.-Ing.in Maria Patek has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21071	Madam President. High house! The vote will take place today. Change of liability law is part of the action plan for safe pastures, which the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism has developed together with the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice as well as all relevant stakeholders. The main content is the increased personal responsibility of visitors of pastures and pastures as well as standards for farmers. This creates a uniform framework for behaviour in the Austrian pastures and pastures to which persons, authorities and courts can directly refer. A new paragraph is also inserted for legal protection in Section 1320 of the ABGB, which lays down a liability for farmers when they comply with the standards. For the first time at all, there is a commitment to the individual responsibility of visitors, and their behaviour is included in the balance of interests in court. With regard to the balance of interests, standards of behaviour for recreational users on pastures and agricultural interests have been developed by the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism in coordination with the alpine economy and tourism. The change in the right of liability is a clear signal of mutual agreement and means greater legal certainty for our domestic farmers, greater clarity in the leisure use of the pastures and higher security for our tourists. Elementary is also the date of the vote in the National Council: Right at the end of the year, we are creating legal certainty for the local alpine farmers, so I am grateful to all those involved and the National Council who may decide to do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21116	Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21138	I would like to refer briefly to two arguments put forward by my previous speakers. The first argument was that Mrs. Dr. Griss and Mr. Noll, too, had argued purely legally here. – I find this exciting: the self-confidence of the Austrian national councillors, who decide on laws here and see it as just too devaluing when you argue purely legal. I really have to say, Shame! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] The second thing I want to say here: If you decide here today a law that has no effect, prose, then scatter the people's sand into the eyes. They all think it's completely stupid, and that's something that national councillors shouldn't do!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21192	Although no one is now speaking and the debate is closed, I am not going to need it any more, I am telling you, Madam President-in-Office of the club, now that: In itself, your speech would have required appeals to you to moderate in tone. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly!]] No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 656 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. [[Call:Look, Mrs. Griss]] – This is accepted by a majority. That is why we shall come to the third reading. [[Call:The Schellhorn sits]] Whoever gives the consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. [[18:34:45]] 18. Point report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 910/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law that amends the Stock Act, the SE Act, the Takeover Act and the Corporate Code (Share Law Change Act 2019 – Act 2019) (658 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21259	We're coming to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag.a Michaela Steinacker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21290	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! With the proposal for an initiative to amend the share law, we are implementing an EU directive that is designed to attract shareholders to the environment and to improve the principles of corporate governance for listed companies. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and also our Federal Minister, other than Josef Moser, as well as the staff of your home, for the preparation, because the implementation of this Shareholders' Rights Directive is legal fine work and we have been able to rely on the resources of your home. – Thank you very much for the support. I would also like to thank Mr Stefan and Mr Jarolim at this point. It was a good cooperation so that we could bring this Shareholders' Rights Directive on a very broad basis as an initiative proposal. - Thank you for that. On the one hand, we create transparency and clear extended reporting obligations for shareholders, on the basis of which they can then make informed decisions in the various bodies. Better transparency is needed, for example, the mandatory vote in the Annual General Meeting on the Company's remuneration policy and also the laying of an annual remuneration report. In addition, it is new that certain transactions with related persons or legal entities – so-called related party transactions – have to be submitted to the Supervisory Boards for approval from a threshold of 5 percent of the balance sheet amount, and for transactions whose order value exceeds 10 percent of the balance sheet amount, they also need to be published. I think we have been able to achieve a proportionality in reporting obligations, namely proportionality, which, on the one hand, does not require excessive red tape, and on the other hand, also states that it is precisely the same thing that has to be avoided, in particular by the fact that we have established that 100 percent subsidiaries are excluded from this reporting obligation, for example, because they have to report to the parent company. It is important that shareholders are sufficiently informed that they know what companies they have information for, because they invest their money there. At the same time, however, we look at our entrepreneurs, because they need air to breathe for the economy, which is their core business. For this reason, I would like to expressly thank you once again for agreeing on the implementation of this EU directive: We have avoided gold plating and, in turn, we have created no overfill, no bureaucracy and no necessary formalism that we have to take back. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is what we started in the context of deregulation with the Anti-Gold-Plating-Law 2019 – which we recently decided on. At the time, we took back 40 measures that burdened our entrepreneurs. This way – I think that is a really necessary way – ladies and gentlemen, we want and will be happy to continue after the election by continuing to work on deregulations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's what we just got...!]] I think we have found a sufficiently balanced, good solution for all sides, which respects, above all, the confidentiality interests of business secrets and business secrets of companies. What particularly pleased me as part of this initiative proposal is: We have conducted an objective discourse – without any excitement. It has clearly become a good law, as everyone in the judicial committee has agreed. – Thank you very much to colleagues. Thank you again to Mr Vice-Chancellor and his house. I am pleased that we have been able to find a good solution for entrepreneurs in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21338	Mrs Mag.a Muna Duzdar is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21363	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My predecessor has basically already said what this law on the law on the law on shares is all about. It is basically nothing but the implementation of an EU directive. We are talking more about participation and more transparency in share law. I am not going to address the technical details of this law now, but I would also like to stress in this context that suddenly things that were not possible under black and blue. That was the opinion: Social partnership is not needed! Dialogue? – What is it at all? I think that it has now become clear how important the involvement of social partners is and that the time of driving is finally over. It is also clear that this dispute resolution body, which has been set up by the For a long time, the social partners will continue to be represented. That's, I think, a good thing. [[Congratulations to Mr Jarolim and Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] Thank you, Hannes. We see that we have now implemented a directive usefully in the field of company law. The participation rights of both the Supervisory Board and the shareholders will be made positive. I can only tell you: Hardly this government is elected, goes a little further in this country. That's good, and that's good for people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21405	Mr. Dr. Markus Tshankist the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21429	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! The purpose of this joint proposal is today to implement a European Union directive on the long-term participation of shareholders. In essence, as the previous speakers have already mentioned, this concerns the remuneration policy of public limited companies and the obligation to submit an annual remuneration report. In addition, the amendment takes the opportunity to revise the legal provisions on the body for the review of the exchange relationship. In summary, those supervisors who hold shares in a listed company may be pleased, since their rights are certainly extended by this transposition into national law. The aim of the Directive is to create an attractive environment for shareholders, to improve the corporate governance of listed companies and, of course, to ensure a longer-term success of listed companies. The Aktiengesellschaft has always been a provider of innovation and a guarantee of knowledge transfer. It is of pioneering importance in the modern economy and serves as an engine of the economic system. It offers investors the opportunity to participate in the economic success of their company. The idea is simple: Each person shall contribute part to the founding capital, each person shall only be liable with his or her share and each shall receive the correspondingly distributed profit and voting right in the Annual General Meeting. However, in recent years there have been increasing trends – and this was not unmentioned at this point – to restrict shareholders' rights. Large stock companies such as Google and Facebook have increasingly issued non-voting shares. This is a trend that is negative for shareholders. It is also important to be very vigilant on the part of the legislator. In the recent past, the British economic magazine “The Economist” warned of a trend towards autocratic companies in the face of the increasing number of toothless shareholders. There is a fearsome tendency in recent times to disarm the partners. The shareholder democracy, it's said, is in the hospital bed. Therefore, and especially for this reason, effective treatment methods must be developed to ensure precisely these shareholder rights. We therefore welcome this initiative in this directive and also the really good implementation. – Thank you once again to all those involved, to Mr Vice-Chancellor, to the speakers of the other political groups: This is really a good design! Finally, I would like to sum up what has been changed: Today, the social part is adapted and implemented accordingly. Shareholders receive a right to vote at the Annual General Meeting on the remuneration of management. In other words, the remuneration policy and the remuneration report must be decided in the Annual General Meeting. In case the shareholders do not agree, there is some kind of gentle veto right. That is to say, it is necessary to present a revised remuneration policy in the next HR, which, if it fits the shareholders, is also approved; and if it does not fit them, it must be adapted accordingly. In the case of substantial transactions with related companies or persons, transparency should be increased in the form of public notices, and such essential transactions, so-called related party transactions, should of course also be agreed by the Supervisory Board. Finally – this is a special feature that I like very, very well personally – there are adjustments in the procedure. This is – for the spectators who do not know – the procedure to check the exchange ratio for re-establishment measures, i.e. in the case of mergers, in the case of submissions. The aim is to shorten the duration of the proceedings. This is achieved by neutralizing the application of the opinion, which was previously established with the relevant body, and by making the panel responsible for the dispute resolution alone. This is a good thing in itself, because this can be excellent for the body, and it should also work in this area. The aim, as I have said, is certainly to shorten the duration of the procedure. All in all, it can only be said that the implementation of this directive in any case strengthens the well-being of shareholders, and this is expressly supported by us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21481	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Irmgard Griss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21505	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This law not only implements the Shareholders' Rights Directive, but reforms, as my previous speaker also pointed out, also the Gremial Procedure, i.e. the Panel's procedure for reviewing the exchange relationship. This is in line with a motion for a resolution tabled by NEOS. This has nothing to do with the implementation of the directive, but it has been done on this occasion. This body to review the exchange relationship – you have already said this, Dr. Tschank – will be active if there is a merger of companies or if the main shareholder decides to exclude the small shareholders or small shareholders. In these cases, one cannot combat this decision, but one can require a review of the amount offered. The Stock Act provides that this body – a body composed of experts – will operate. This has already been done, but the procedure has not worked; it has lasted endlessly. There are procedures that have lasted ten years, and that is, of course, something that is unbearable. There was another, very huge weakness, one that was the choice of experts and the second was the cost calculation. There was no clear regulation on how to calculate the attorney's costs. As a result, some have the The idea is that the basic capital is decisive. This, of course, has resulted in extremely high costs, with the result that some law firms – unfortunately you have to say so – have only acquired a share or shares to be able to make such a request and then get high costs refunded. That's history now. This reform clearly states that the interest is crucial for cost assessment. That is what to expect, what needs to be paid in addition. It is now also clear that, if the procedure lasts for one year, it can be requested to refer the case back to the Court of First Instance. This ensures that procedures do not last so long. The selection of experts is also regulated. All of this, then, is a very important and very useful reform. But not only that: What particularly pleased me with this law was that there has been a review process – unfortunately, it is not, of course – and not only that: the criticism expressed in the review process was also taken into account, so that finally a law came out that can really be adopted, which has really been made good – my compliment to the Ministry of Justice! I also link this with the hope that this may be an example of future legislative projects, so that we do the same thing for long-term review procedures and then take the results into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21550	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then we reach the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 658 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives the draft law a third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law is therefore adopted unanimously at third reading. [[18:51:25]] 19. Point Request by Dr. Alfred J. Noll, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the law of 27 October 1885 was applied. (80/A) 20. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (633, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Code of Law, the Notarial Code, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers and the Standard of Law (657 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21612	We now come to the points 19 and 20 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to application 80/A, a period of time of up to 1 January was granted to the judicial committee for reporting. ==References== Mr Dr. Johannes Jarolim has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21644	Madam President, Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The present application deals with the fact that half of the court costs will be reimbursed in a civil trial when it comes to a comparison in the first Statute for the first session. Since we in Europe are leading the level of court costs, this is, of course, an actual incentive to make a comparison, to draw up a comparative solution, and from my point of view, it will make a major contribution – if it is implemented – to reducing the number of cases. This means that, while on the one hand, we have a certain loss of court costs, on the other hand, there is a considerable savings in court costs, that on the one hand this is calculated economically and, on the other hand, of course, every attempt to settle disputes, agreeable solutions to proceedings is in principle useful. We have discussed this with Minister Moser at the time and have actually received a very open signal that all the measures that serve to reach agreement and lead to as few processes as possible are welcome. I hope that, on this basis, we can achieve the greatest possible agreement here in order to agree. There is nothing against the fact that in the future we will continue to have discussions on how to further reduce the potential for dispute and the number of judicial proceedings by means of common solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21674	Next speaker: Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21696	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! Once again, we are faced with a request, this time by Mr Noll, which, I would say, in the so-called play of the free forces, a political issue and, in this case, I say, a completely comprehensible need for change in court fees, but, in my view, everything under the motto: What can we decide quickly? With what majority could we quickly hit a peg, leave a trail? Cost it what it wants, under the motto: We take into account the sustainable effects later on, in addition to that, the next Federal Government has to deal with this! Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly the way in which we reject the new People's Party, because to bear political responsibility means, even in times of a transitional government, to make well thought-out and sustainable decisions for the people of our country, even when we are in the middle of the campaign! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To say it quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen: We are content and absolutely not against the reduction of court fees, quite the contrary! I can remind you of our government programme, which was set up by 2022. It explicitly states that we want to achieve quality improvements, closer proximity to citizens, efficiency gains, cost reductions and effective use of public funds through a comprehensive reform. And, ladies and gentlemen, we want to help the people to have a quiet access to justice. We want to have the rapid judicial clarification of civil disputes. We want all of this, but ultimately these are the conditions that we want to create, which are important for people to have confidence in our rule of law, trust in the case law, and ultimately, I think, this is important for a functioning economic location. That means we agree on everything. I should also like to remind you that the government programme has explicitly set out the reduction of flat-rate fees in case of judicial comparison and recovery. [[Abg. Noll: Well, let's just do it!]] – However, Mr Noll – and Mr Jarolim mentioned this – in an overall package, which is also in line with our principles of discharge and deregulation, and which, as requested by you today, has only one single solution in mind. [[Abg. Lightenness: Mr Jarolim is right!]] Mr Jarolim has referred to it, the subject is much wider. Of course, we want to continue to deal with the subject, which is comprehensive and sustainable. Of course, we want to achieve our aims of optimising the procedure and also speeding up procedures – but in the next legislative period, based on the comprehensive presentation of the situation, as Mr Jarolim has suggested, and certainly not with a single action. Ladies and gentlemen! I am still on one point, that is to say, with regard to costs. I stress that a budgetary cover for this long-term effective reduction in fees is not available at this time. We are talking about a fee loss of half a million euros or a million euros per year, not including those cases which are not currently disputed or disputed, but which could be disputed in the future in order to benefit from a reduction in fees. It is therefore not to be blamed, in my view, for further burdening the judicial budget. An isolated solution to the problem of fees, ladies and gentlemen, was never the line of the new People's Party, and that was actually the opinion of the FPÖ in the judicial committee until recently. All the more surprised I am that the FPÖ has changed its opinion within a few days, and now today, without a total solution and without budgetary coverage, I might decide for one – I would call it so – quick shot. Therefore, I can appeal to you all and in particular to the FPÖ: The reduction of court fees is a legitimate and common concern, but I ask you and I also ask you to: If we share responsibility for the future, together with the next and future Federal Government, we prepare a viable and meaningful redesign, including a reduction in court fees, and then we decide, in a comprehensive view of things, in the sense of the rule of law, in the knowledge of the financial consequences and for the benefit of the people who are affected by these regulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21751	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Ruth Becher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21776	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Money laundering directive is quite clear: The organized criminals, the economic criminals, but also terrorists Organizations are to be removed from the economic base. Both money laundering and terrorist financing are subject to punishment in Austria. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] Sub-areas of implementation have been better achieved, others have been worse. It's totally inconsistent. In practice, entire population groups are suspected of having a flat-rate basis, such as members of billing courts, representatives of political parties, officers, representatives of international organisations, supervisory bodies of state companies. Also included are their spouses, children and parents. This, on the one hand, seems to be useful, but on the other hand it also assumes amazing dimensions: A friend told me that when she wanted to take over the bank compartment of her late mother, who was part of that group of persons, she was almost insurmountable, because the review took a very long time, was tough and long. On the other hand, I find it amazing that the mandatory risk analysis recommended by the EU for customers of real estate brokers was not legally implemented by the FPÖ ÖVP government in June 2018, which is to be read in the risk assessment exemption regulation. Here, only the general rules of commerce intervene, and this exception does not fully reflect on me as a residential speaker, because finally, the figures of the Austrian National Bank show that the pressure from foreign capital is enormous. It pushes money on the Austrian real estate market, which we do not need, which only drives prices, the prices of housing and costs living. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The rule of law is still impracticable for the professional group, and we will also reject it. The 4th. Money laundering directive was implemented until 26.6.2017. – The fact that the Republic is standing where it stands today is not a reputation for the chosen turquoise-blue government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21827	The next item is the speech by Mr Ragger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21848	Madam President. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Justice! I should like to state briefly and with all due respect why the FPÖ is going to give this request approval today, namely from three points of view: Imagine, you come to a court office and the judge or judge says: We want to make a comparison with a dispute party!, then there would be court fees due to a degree of 50 percent of the normal court fees. A week later, you again have a dispute, come back to court after a few weeks, file a record and compare yourself in the first day statutes. Then, out of these 50 percent of court fees, 100 percent of court fees are charged. That is, we have an blatant misunderstanding when someone compares himself extrajudicially on the one hand or in a pretorial comparison, as one calls it in court, and when someone – on the other hand – goes to court. In other words, the question is: What kind of inequality is there? – This is the first one, as it is in the law. The second thing – and this has already come up to me in the committee – is – I told the ÖVP that it should give itself a little thought, because one can also become smarter – that the court fees are well above the European average at 118 percent. The average court fees in Europe are 18 percent, those in Austria 118 percent. The third point is – and this is the most baffling; I am looking forward to the negotiations in the new legislative period – that these court fees do not benefit the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of Finance, and the Minister of Finance makes the budget available for justice for the sake of grace. Now I ask you: What, then, is the court fees to be charged when it comes to getting right and doing a trial before the legal judge? - That can't be the solution. And when you say, Mr Mahrer, at the end of your remarks: Yes, we want a great solution, then I am excited how we will increase the cost contribution for criminals, for rapists who have only 50 euros to pay and who make a minimum cost contribution in this Republic. Then we will talk about the fact that if you have advocacy, you will increase the budgets for lawyers accordingly. All these are points that we have also called for, together with the previous Minister of Justice. I expect the ÖVP to complete this in this speed. If we do that, then we are on a good way to solve the question of court fees accordingly. Today, therefore, FPÖ is very clearly in favour of taking this first step of discharge for citizens in this country, this very small step in the area of these fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21900	Mr Vice-Chancellor Dr. Jabloner spoke. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21921	Madam President. High house! I am not saying that I am not particularly happy with the system of court fees that we find now and that I am seeking an overall solution. I also have sympathy for this proposal, but it simply cannot be financed. I am obliged to tell you that we have not budgeted at least half a million euros, which would mean the implementation of this request. [[Abg. Cashier: Half a million?]] The judicial budget is extremely sparse, we are facing major problems. We lack 70 million euros in the current budget year to maintain normal operation. This is the result of a systematic under-budgeting of the justice sector, which runs through several legislative periods. I have to deal with this very situation now and must therefore be careful not to create additional burdens. I'm asking for your understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21956	I call Mr Noll. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e21982	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! With the same sympathy as you are facing this proposal, I am facing the budget needs of the ministry. They are not in debt from me, but from the previous government, which has decimated this budget to a humiliating way for the people, for the rule of law of Austria, and removed it from actual needs. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, After all, I was skeptical, according to Mr Jarolim – a lawyer – according to Mr Ragger – a lawyer – even now as a lawyer, to tell something that has already been said – I would not be ashamed because, as you all know, redundancy is a basis for taking knowledge – but, Mr Mahrer, I am already telling you two things: First – and you should know this principle –: There's nothing good but you do it. That's the first one. And when you say, It's right to do something like that!, and then for years, only the vocabulary package, total package, total package used and does nothing, then there is what you call sustainability, simply in the non-stun ad calendas graecas. And that must end once! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second thing I'm saying to you: You're a really friendly man, just: This kindness is in reverse proportional relation to your court knowledge and to the knowledge and experience you have of the daily life of the court. They praise a loss of budget resources – to which it will probably come; no human being has empirical figures on how much it is about – but what you, above all, ignore is: We are concerned with motivating the area of justice for rationalisation and savings and creating this opportunity in the first round of negotiations. That is why we have also agreed with the judicial association. It is about clarifying the parties: You now have a good chance to compare, because afterwards you only argue more about the cost!, and moreover, the complainant now gets something back. This clearly promotes the willingness to compare, and there is nothing better for the judicial system than the procedure it does not have to conduct. However, you do not calculate this savings, and that is also the lack of what Mr Vice-Chancellor has said. It is a matter of saving justice through the removal of otherwise necessary work. And it's no coincidence that lawyer Jarolim, attorney Ragger, lawyer Noll, says we all are: Let's take a look at the practice and make sure that this little sign is a beautiful mosaic for the fact that we have fewer cases in court! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22031	Mr Fürlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22053	High Bureau! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! A very challenging discussion when you come out as the fourth lawyer in the row. I allow myself a small replica on the subject of court fees: Dear Alfred Noll, I can remember how you were full of praise for the expert government a few weeks ago, in the deep hope that These may rule for as long as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] And now you have the expert government you love, and then one of these experts gets up and tells you that your application is very nice, but the implementation is unfortunately not possible. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Noll.]] That's why your counter-complainer was actually weaker against the plea of the Vice Chancellor, and I'd ask you to consider that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Although I am already standing out here as a fourth lawyer, I am the first to turn to the legal order or the corresponding change – this is because I would like to break a lance for the stand, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 6 500 lawyers in this Republic are taking care of your right, but with relatively many bureaucratic outlaws there or there, they are prevented from exercising their profession and it will make work difficult for them. One of them was the famous money laundering directive – a colleague has already described some interesting effects here. Ladies and gentlemen! If you need to have a money laundering officer in a small to medium-sized firm, then you will find activities that are quite exciting and that are a little distracting from the actual business. Yes, certainly, it is the general public, the majority of lawyers who are sorry that individuals – including in our stand – do everything for money and do not comply with the rules. For this reason, we have already had to produce reliable manuals: because one out of 3,000 did not know how to deal with foreign money. For this reason, we also need to note today that some of them seem to have postponed money and perhaps, as it is called, they have washed money. That is why this stand has to swallow a few things – the great implementation has already been done, but now there is only the supplement for branch firms within the EU, but also in third countries. But in all of what's happening here, I warn you a little: I'm asking how the Bars should actually manage and monitor what's going to happen to them. I'm asking if we as lawyers can really do all of this at all. And: The lawyer's business is already one with a duty of secrecy, and the lawyer cannot be forced to eventually become the advertiser and more or less mysterious traitor and constantly go after his own client. These are things I am taking along to express quite clearly to the workers in the Federal Ministry of Justice in the same sentence for the first time, but also here in the second time in the implementation, the most necessary means. That is, I think, all right and right, and we will still be satisfied with this implementation. However, I would like to say once again that the name of the stand and the professions: We must be careful that we do not overload them and prevent them from working. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22119	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each item on the agenda separately. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Question No 80/A by Mrs Noll, ladies and gentlemen - I am waiting for all the ladies and gentlemen to sit - concerning a federal law with which the law of 27 October was passed. In November 1984 the Court of Justice and Court of Justice fees were amended. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Draft Federal Law amending the Code of Laws, the Notarial Regulations, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers and the Standard of Laws, including Title and Entry into 633 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. This is the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for such a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:17:17]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on Amendment 924/A by Dr Irmgard Griss, Members of Parliament on a Federal Law establishing the Federal Law of 15 December 1989 on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their rights. In June 1978, international private law (IPR law) was amended (659 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22204	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Moser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22232	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to begin by thanking the staff of the Ministry of Justice, who have done excellent preliminary work and have also contributed to the completion of these points today, i.e. during this legislative period. In addition, I would like to point out that the officials of the Ministry of Justice have been enormously committed to strengthening the rule of law and that they have also acted against discrimination, no matter what. It is precisely Mrs Griss's request to deal with this item on the agenda that goes in the direction of eliminating discrimination under international private law. The starting point for this is, of course, also the VfGH knowledge from the year 2017, in which it is stated that the compelling condition of the different sexes is In any event, two persons must be removed for marriage to enter, and it has been reasoned that the existing obligation to enter into a registered partnership for same-sex couples would give rise to a breach of the principle of equality – that is, Article 7 of the Federal Constitution. There have therefore been four options for action as to how to comply with the Constitutional Court’s knowledge. One option was: Maintain marriage and registered partnership as a breakdown model. At the same time, this would have meant that the registered partnership, which met with great public approval, would have been lost. The second option would have been: Maintain marriage and registered partnership as a breakdown model with legal conversion of the registered partnership into a marriage. This would have caused a compulsion to marriage in the final consequence, so also a path that one should not go. A third option would have been: Restoring the old marriage model and registered partnership for all. On the other hand, there would have been as much anti-equivalent elements as the old state, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court. It was therefore because we have advocated eliminating discrimination and strengthening individual rights, thinking logically, following the Constitutional Court's decision and allowing marriage for all and at the same time a partnership for all, with measures being taken by the Ministry of Justice in conjunction with the Ministry of the Interior in order to be able to carry out the transformation of a registered partnership into a marriage without complication. That is, one does not first have to break up a registered partnership in order to enter into a marriage, but the process will be more fluid – with the consent of those involved. Today's proposal, which I have already mentioned, eliminates further discrimination. There are still differences in the registered equal opportunities partnership and marriage. Currently, it is planned that members of a state that does not know the same sex marriage, such as Slovakia, Hungary or Bosnia-Herzegovina, cannot marry the same gender in Austria, but they may very well enter a registered partnership in Austria on the basis of international private law. The reason for this not really understandable arrangement is that marriage is subject to the Staff Regulations, i.e. the spouse's home law, and on the other hand, to the registered partnership, the right of the state of origin, i.e. the State in which the partnership is actually concluded. Policy has the task of taking on responsibility. The policy should not wait until the courts actually fulfil this task. It is therefore appropriate to eliminate this discrimination now. I am pleased that, if you look at the list of speakers, further discrimination can also be eliminated in this area by a large majority. Let me conclude with Dr. Jarolim's remarks, which I very much appreciate, and also by Dr. Noll in brief, that it is very important that we also consider an overall solution in fees law, which is also sought! The solution, the fees in case a comparison is made to reduce to half, would mean at the same time – as the fees that are not disputed are very likely to be at the full level in the warning procedure – that it is better for one side to go into the dispute and then close a comparison than to go in the direction, a warning procedure will be carried out. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. That is to say, it would be useful, Dr. Noll, to bring about an overall solution, but at the same time to ensure that justice, even after the reduction of fees, remains operational in the future. On another point raised, the gap of EUR 70 million, which currently exists: These are the costs arising from the case law, while in 2019 the reserve collected at the Ministry of Justice will be sufficient to carry out the cover. It is true, however, what Mr Vice-Chancellor has already said, that in 2020 and 2021 the necessary budget will be made available for the functioning of justice, if we want to strengthen the rule of law in Austria and continue to have a functioning judicial system, which we can currently be very proud of in international comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22298	Mr Lindner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22319	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! So I have to admit that after today's day and after today's debate, I can't feel a certain grin anymore, since I really didn't expect the decision to go out unanimously in the debate on conversion therapy – I would like to say thank you once again! Although this decision is now being taken unanimously, I think I have to say that, with great joy on the earth. Ladies and gentlemen, I come very briefly to the subject of conversion therapy: After the vote I have received countless emails, messages from quite a lot of people in Austria, and I do not want to abstain from one of these e-mails – I have discussed whether I can read this e-mail – which reads: Mr Lindner, dear Mario! Thank you, thank you! I was very interested in the discussion on conversion therapy on television. Above all, your words have deeply touched me and moved me to tears, because I am also victims of a long-term conversion therapy that has brought absolutely nothing except to torment me emotionally and to get me done inwardly. I was only six years old when this martyrium started. I just ran away from home at the age of 18 and never spoke a word with my father again. I needed years later to understand that nothing is actually wrong with me and that it is not a sin to be homosexual. I am living a normal life today and have been in a very happy partnership for years, but the way there was anything but easy. I don't wish anyone what I've been through as a child and as a youth. Thank you again and thank you very much! - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to abstain from these lines because they show how important this decision was today. To the agenda item Marriage for all: I am glad that after the VfGH decision in December 2017, a political decision regarding marriage will finally be made for all. From now on, binational couples are allowed to marry in Austria, and that is a good thing. Mr Moser, we still have a challenge to overcome – we have a request in the Committee on the Interior – and this is about the recognition of similar couples in Austria who married before 1.1.2019 in another country, outside Austria. – We are still getting this important issue of equality policy. Live love!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22368	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22389	Madam President. Federal Minister! We've heard what it's all about. Fortunately, it is in Austria that, after a decision of the Constitutional Court, same-sex couples may also marry. Mr Moser, you said it was a decision of the Supreme Court. I have to be a little careful that I am not talking too strongly about ÖVP now, because I see it very positive that it is involved in this context, but with a reason that we have all used these decisions by the Supreme Courts, it is unfortunately that the EIA has not been prepared for years to remove discrimination in this area. The fact is, we have the same-sex partnership, the same-sex marriage also in Austria, since it is in the IPR law but so in it, it is not possible for Austrians to marry partners from countries where the same-sex marriage is not allowed – Hungary, Slovakia and so on, you have addressed it –. So an Austrian and a Hungarian, an Austrian and a Hungarian cannot marry. I think this is absurd discrimination, and it makes sense in a united Europe, especially if, for example, this Hungarian has been living in Austria for centuries and cannot marry its Austrian partner only because it has another nationality. Because of this request we have made, it will be history in the future. We know that, unfortunately, there are other discriminations of God, which have not yet been clarified, how to deal with them; in terms of equality of gender Marriages are about legal issues of origin or the question of the conversion of the registered partnership into a marriage. I am convinced that if we are finally committed to the end of discrimination against same-sex communities – and I feel that this is at least a large majority in the House since the very latest – it is an essential task, especially in a united Europe where there should be no limits to reduce discrimination as quickly as possible in this context. It is absurd that, although we all really want to live in a Europe without borders, we do not grant people who love one another the same rights as others who live here in Austria. For this reason, I am very, very glad that we are doing this today, and I wish all those who are now affected, good luck, good joy and the hope that they will be able to live without discrimination in the future and that they can do what they want, namely in freedom themselves, to decide with whom they want to live as they do.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22434	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22456	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually a relatively simple story. It is quite simply about the fact that in relation, marriage, love less the state limits the freedoms of the people, but the people themselves decide which way they go together, and above all because the state forbids less. It's about less discrimination, it's about more freedom, it's just about marriage for everyone, and it's about repairing marriage for everyone. I can remember that the Constitutional Court of First Instance was aware of this. In December 2017, the ban on the marriage of same-sex couples was abolished. ÖVP and FPÖ were tall for over a year. Nothing happened, no bill was here in the house. One could have acted, thousands of people affected have waited for a marriage. There have also been sick partners who would have liked to be married in Austria. One has kept these people waiting, delayed, tacted, and then in January surprisingly came the instruction of the Minister of the Interior not to fully implement the knowledge of the Constitutional Court. I can give an example: Two women want to marry in Vienna, one Austrian and one Polish. Both live in Vienna, work in Vienna, pay taxes in Vienna; however, according to the Ministry of the Interior, for the political who lives and works here, the home law, the matrimonial law of their country of origin Poland. The SPÖ, of course, said no to this direction, because that is discrimination, it is not the implementation of human rights. Choosing his adult mate himself is simply a human right, and it should be natural to implement it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This restriction by the Minister of the Interior on matrimonial law meant reducing the level in Austria to that of the Visegrád states – not very pleasing. I think that in terms of freedom, human rights, we should look in the West, in Western Europe, and less in the East. Now the repair is underway. It cannot be that an Austrian can marry a German or an Italian here in Austria, but not a Hungarian or a Czech. That's not possible, that's why the repair. The breakdown of the black and blue majority makes a lot more freedom, also a lot more justice possible here in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22499	Mrs Schatter. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22520	Madam President. Dear Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Good thing needs a while – with this sentence you can define the way to marriage for everyone in Austria, I think, quite well. Finally, it was the Constitutional Court decision in December 2017, which opened the way for the same-sex marriage in Austria, just at the time when the black-blue government founded itself, and, as I believe, quite to its failure. However, the VfGH decision was an important decision, namely a sign of tolerance and openness, but above all a sign of inequality and discrimination. In fact, this marriage is for all but one marriage for almost all, since there are still couples who are not allowed to marry, because – and this has been mentioned several times – a partner or a partner comes from a country where the same sex marriage is not allowed, for example Poland, Hungary or Slovakia. This abuse, this – almost – marriage ban for certain couples is to end this application today. This abuse must be eliminated, and these couples should not be forced into registered partnerships. That must finally belong to the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because of the request, obstacles have been removed, people have been put in the way for years, just because they have opted for love. The decision of the Constitutional Court of December 2017 is almost completed with this application and no more marriages are excluded. It is a great sign that we can finally put today: all families in Austria have the same recognition to give everyone the same respect. Ladies and gentlemen! Last June was not only the hottest June of all time, I think he was also the most colorful and rainbow-colored June of all time. It was the Pride Month and in many cities in Austria events took place. I only remember the huge Europride with 500,000 participants who took place in Vienna; that was really a great and great sign of more tolerance and openness and of recognition that this community, the Queercommunity, deserves. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak]] Dear Mario, I would also like to thank you as President of the Soho, one of the organizations that have implemented this grand celebration. Please also address this to the Community, which has been working for years for recognition and for the same rights, because this year-long struggle has also made it possible for us to decide on applications like these today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22575	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 659 of the supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also taking part in the third reading to give an appropriate signal. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:36:45]] 22. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 678/A by Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Care Act (646 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22635	We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Gödl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22662	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In July 1993, an Austrian Federal Insurance Act was first put into force, and it was actually a milestone in social policy. [[Deputies Vogl and Muchitsch:Thank you!]] The aim was and still is to cover, on the one hand, the costs incurred by the need for care, these additional expenses, and on the other hand, to ensure as independent a life as possible and to disposit over one's own living environment. This principle of freedom of choice for those in need of care is thus very important in the aspect of the care allowance. When the care allowance was introduced in 1993, it was about 230,000 members from the beginning. In May of this year it was 463,000, i.e. quite twice as many as at the time of the introduction, and we know from all statistics that these care providers continue to be cared for to a large extent at home, in the domestic environment, in the circle of the family. Some 950 000 people in Austria provide family care services for their families. The fact is that since the introduction of the care allowance, of course, many other areas of care have also been invested in care. Communities, social assistance associations, countries and also the Federal Government have invested in many areas in order to provide care services more and more. Not only were stationary facilities put on the feet, but also alternative forms of housing or mobile services. I think we can say with fug and right – even if we always discuss very comprehensively – that we still have one of the best care systems in the world in Austria. As far as the care allowance is concerned – we decide today the annual valorization from 2020 – at least I have not found out whether there is a country anywhere in the world that grants more care money directly to those in need of care than Austria does. It is very good to compare it with the Federal Republic of Germany. It also has a similar demographic, has a similar social and family structure, also has a strong ageing population. There, too, a care money system has been introduced, but not with seven steps, like with us, but only with five steps. With us it's like this: In the first stage, there is currently 157 euros, in the seventh stage almost 1,700 euros per month. It's different in Germany. There are only five steps, with no money at all at the first stage, but only a half-yearly care advice is guaranteed. At the fifth, i.e. at the highest level, you get 901 euros, a little more than half of what we have in Austria. What is still different in Germany: There, only 2.6% of the population have care benefits, in Austria it is exactly the double, that is, 5.2%. This alone shows that Austria and this care money system in Austria can measure themselves worldwide and that our care money system is in any case part of those systems that also take the most financial means into their hands for the need for care and for this self-sufficiency, for this self-responsibility also grant care money. If we decide on this annual valorization today, it is very good and right, but it should not be deceiving that we – and this is also the task of the next government – need to work on a comprehensive care concept. The previous turquoise-blue government has set itself that goal. For more than a year now, we have also worked intensively on the various subject areas, because it must be clear – and it is, I believe, clear to everyone in this area: The comprehensive care is a big picture with many mosaic stones. One is the care allowance, the other is about the caring family members. How can these be supported – with care care, with health insurance, with pension insurance and the like – with care part-time? So there are many aspects in the field of caring families. Furthermore, it is also about how we better organise the so-called transitional care in the future, so if someone is released from the hospital area until the care is organized. What intermediate models are there? Or how do we further organize short-term care if, for example, caregivers go on vacation so that the person in need of care also has a possibility to use a temporary stationary care service? For example, how do we continue to do with well-kept housing? How is the 24-hour care continued? How do we make quality assurance there? Finally: How should stationary homes be equipped? What criteria of hygiene and the like must there be? How is the quality assurance carried out there? So we have a variety of small stones, which together must result in the mosaic of overall care. Our Federal Party candidate and top candidate for the National Council election Sebastian Kurz presented a care concept about many points and, of course, also about funding, about a week ago on the basis of these many discussions we have held in recent months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We also need to get into the debate completely out of the way. Who's to finance this? We're going to need a lot of money, we're gonna need a lot more money for the care. How is this money to be spent? Very important will be: How can we also combine the financial flows in the future? Our proposal is that we should strengthen AUVA with this care task in order to ensure a financing unit in the future, and it is not like now that many, many different financiers from the municipalities to the countries, via the federal government, through the social assistance associations and the like, operate. In any case, we need to work very intensively in the next few days in order to put a comprehensive concept on our feet. This will definitely be the task of the next Federal Government. Today we decide, as has been said, the annual valorization of the care allowance. As I said, it is only a small mosaic in a large picture of care. This great picture of care needs to be reassessed in the future. The work will in no way be done in the next legislative period. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22705	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22731	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs Sozialminister! In 1993, it was a red Social Minister, Josef Hesoun, who presented a draft government, which was decided here in Parliament and which was groundbreaking: to pay the care allowance in seven stages. This has developed and represents an incredible support not only for caring families, but also for the people who need care themselves. Yes, it was a red project and it is known worldwide today and is imitated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it was also 2016 the red Social Minister Alois Stöger, who last valorised the care allowance. Today, we are all going to decide together – for even in the Committee on Finance, it was all five parties, who are familiar with this – that we are finally making this annual adjustment once again, because the loss of value in the last 35 years has not been very much. It is important, because if the forecasts are true, we can expect about three-quarters of a million caregivers in 2050 and some 40,000 people working in health care areas, who also cover this care – in addition to the many families who already do so today. Mr Gödl has now asked incredibly many questions. But you know, Mr. Colleague and everyone else: We have a care concept that provides answers. There is in some points a red care concept that provides good answers, how we can ensure a state-funded care now and in the future. At present, care costs 5 billion euros. With 1 billion more, we can ensure that all people in this country who need care receive this care as well. At the same time, we can relieve family members. We can now give them a right to care part-time and care leave. We can expand mobile and stationary care. We can set up care services sites locally broken down in every federal country, where, according to a one-stop shop principle, you get support in everything you need when applying for a care allowance, an application for a place in a nursing home where you are well advised. We can also equip the caregivers who work in these professions with more time or other time models and above all more money. It is, I believe, important that all the people we will need in the future also work on really good working conditions. We only need the care guarantee fund, which already exists by 2021 – at least more than 3 billion euros in there – to increase by 1 billion, and we can ensure care for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that what you propose is no more than an air bubble, and I can also tell you why: To finance a care insurance scheme through the General Insurance Institute would mean to eliminate it four times with the money that already costs the care. You know that just as well as we know that this is unfinancing, impossible. [[Abg. Gödl: Go!]] First of all, the seven accident hospitals should be closed, and all the benefits in rehabilitation for people who have had accidents in the workplace should be removed in favour of care – we have a much better model. You can write that in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, all parties will decide that from 2020 onwards, at the same time as the pension adjustment, the care allowance will be increased at every level of care. That is, I think, a real milestone that we decide together today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22786	Mrs Belakovich is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22807	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I have really saved my voice all day long to be able to speak here now. For many years, since 2006, since I was in this House, we have called for an annual valorization. She never came. It did not come to the government negotiations either, because it did not want the ÖVP to do so at the time. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] I am all the more pleased today that we have implemented something that really helps citizens, namely the caregivers and all their families. That's something quite, very great and important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I hear on TV, yes, it's already giving up money again, then I say quite openly and honestly: This is money that definitely comes to 100 percent of those who also need it. Just the care allowance is something that helps the person concerned. If we know that we have had a loss of over 35 percent since 1993, then we will not be able to compensate for the financial loss now, of course, but from today there will be no more loss of value. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I am really very happy that we have done this, and I am also proud of this Parliament that even now it has come to a unanimous decision. I say quite honestly to you that if you stick hard, then something goes on in this country, then something goes on in this House, then we even make unanimous decisions. I am particularly pleased that the ÖVP really gave itself a back and voted in favour. I am really glad, because just one day before the decision was made in the Financial Committee, it was Altkanzler Kurz, who dreamed of a care insurance. As I am really pleased that his own Members have shown him so to speak, it does not need to be. We want to act now, we want to do something for those in this country. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22851	Mr Loacker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22872	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Even the NEOS are for this!]] Yeah, I'm right about Mr Belakovich, the loss of care money in recent years was no longer reasonable. Especially for the families who care for their families at home, a great burden has thus occurred, through this creeping devaluation, which had long since been compensated. But you have to say one thing: In normal times when there is a government that looks a little bit at the fact that not everything in this house goes wild, it would have been different. If someone is 4 to 7, then someone is typically in a home. This increased care money now gets the home carrier, not the person. Whether this homecarrier invests this additional money in better care, we do not know because there is no obligation to do so. This would of course have been prepared by a government that operates in full power of its office and would have entered into a dialogue with the local authorities that will then receive these transfers, as one ensures that the money actually comes to those for whom it is intended. Unfortunately, this is not the case. We still agree, because those who care for their relatives at home need the money. What already appears is the hot air policy of the short government. You don't have to think back long, then you come to the Master Plan care. A giant master plan was not only announced, but decided on 5.12.2018 in the Council of Ministers. Wonderful press conference, you know these stagings: In short, straight, and the ministers on the left and on the right have always changed a little. It was sold to us that everything would be great now. – Yes, nothing has happened, nothing has been prepared either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gödl.]] So what we've seen recently, this dizzy press conference on AUVA, was for recovery. Ingrid Korosec has also been told that Ingrid himself was no longer right what she was put down for a text. That's what you've noticed. No one who deals with the system would ever have come up with the idea of putting the care in the AUVA, because if it does not belong somewhere, then in the AUVA. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] - Thank you for this beautiful sound. The care allowance is calculated and granted by the pension insurance institution. The benefits, which may perhaps even be able to charge care workers independently, actually fit into the service catalogues of a health insurance fund, but it certainly does not belong to AUVA. Sebastian Kurz stands down and says: So it would be a great care insurance on the basis of the social security system, because the Austrian social security scheme is so great, that's such a great system! – So please, these checkouts don’t even get together that we have a bad medical care. They make contracts with the doctor's chamber to charge third parties and thin the supply. You want to give these self - administration people the care? That would be a crime for the population if you did it. But you can see that there had to be a press conference quickly, there you had to publish something quickly to distract from the entire donation problem of the ÖVP, and then you quickly knocked the AUVA. Hot air! Sebastian Kurz, the political balloon of this republic, is now back in the election campaign, and we can listen to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22937	Mr Gödl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22962	Mr Loacker claimed that in Austria, someone who has 4 to 7 levels of care is typically in a home. In fact, in Austria, approximately 60 000 people are hospitalised, but 150 000 are between Stage 4 and Stage 7. If you use such numbers, please also know them!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e22991	I call Mr Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23012	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and Minister of Finance at the Government Bank! High house! The idea of this initiative proposal has come to me on the occasion of the presentation of the tax concept, the tax plans of the old government – I have to say: once again. In this context, the question has been raised very quickly, which is what with the retaliation of the cold progression. As the screams have come from all possible sides, especially loud from NEOS, it is a matter of paying off the cold progression that, by increasing salaries due to loss of value due to inflation, progression is a little stronger. But no one, ladies and gentlemen, has asked himself in this situation, which is actually with the transfers and the losses in value that there are from year to year due to inflation. In the case of care not, not in the case of family allowances, in the case of study grants: Although there are sporadic increases in all three areas, there are no ongoing valorizations, which in the case of care money – it has already been mentioned – has resulted in a loss of value of more than a third since 1993. We transfer this to the care level seven, then since 1993 this means a loss of 600 euros, saying and writing 600 euros. I therefore tabled this request to the Committee on Committee and, as usual, as regards applications made by opposition parties to committees, it has been postponed. That's what happened on the 20th. March. On the same day, Party funding was valorised in another committee, the Constitutional Committee. Well, there was no genius. This was the most natural thing in the world that the promotion of the parties is valorized. [[Abg. Gödl: Now you vote against the reduction! Now you are voting against the reduction of party funding!]] I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that has been extremely inappropriate. This has been inappropriate to those transferors of care money and other transfers that had to purchase value losses. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Well, what was the reason? – Let us remember: What was the reason for the increase in party funding? – There has been no valorization since 2015. And do you know when the last valorization of the care allowance took place? – I'll tell you: Also 2015. But you have, of course, postponed this initiative proposal in the Committee. I then introduced it once again to the Financial Committee, and only thanks to the free play of the forces has it been possible to find a solution by means of a deadline request, which ultimately all the parties have agreed to. I like that. I therefore think this is good because we owe it to the people in need of care and to their families. Now there have been many cross-scores – from the Federal Minister for Finance, who is looking at his budget path with concern. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] It is about 50 million euros a year, and not, Mr. Finanzminister, as you have said, by 100 in the second year, by 150 in the third year. - No, this bill is wrong. The bill is different. 50 million and an inflation rate of 2 percent in the following year means that it costs 51 million in the following year, not 100. Please, if you expect, you'll be right. So with one word: The budget path is not in danger. I can also calm down Mr Sobotka's concern today in the 'Morgenjournal' that the budget path should be respected. These 50 million euros will not call into question the budget path. [[Abg. Gödl: You make a calculation error, a fundamental calculation error!]] There has also been a lot of criticism from the economic researchers, by Christoph Badelt from the Economic Research Institute and Martin Kocher from the IHS. I think this criticism was particularly embarrassing. This has really angered me, because Mr Badelt was not too stupid to say that this was an ideal example of how it should not go. This is a concept which is not finally thought to be an election sugar. These arguments have fallen, and I honestly find this extremely embarrassing for the top of the economies in our country, which preside over the two major research institutes. [[Abg. Zinggl: To Generate!]] - To enjoy! Yes, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not an election sugar, it is an overdue valorization that does not endanger the budget path, which is also a small step towards more distribution justice. This valorization of the care allowance was also an incentive for a debate on a care concept that is more than necessary. On the other hand, what Mr Altkanzler presented at a press conference, which was called urgently, was a quick shot and a punch of the special class. Unfortunately, I can't say it differently. If we hold this debate – and we have to lead it because care will cost about EUR 13 billion in the long term and that is very, very much money, which is why we now have to consider how we can finance this budget path – if we discuss it, then please discuss it with a lot of serious and work out viable solutions. From Husch-pusch-Actionen à la Altkanzler I don't think anything at all. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] In conclusion: Thank you very much to all those who have made it possible for this request to be adopted unanimously today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23104	Mrs Grünberg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23125	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Appreciate women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! As a self-employed person, I cannot stress enough what essential performance the federal care allowance is for caregivers and their relatives. As we have already heard, the care allowance has been only sporadically increased since the introduction of 1993. Thus, a significant loss of value has occurred over the past 26 years. Now again and again the criticism of those concerned that valorisation has long been taking into account is being taken into account. As of 1.1.2020, this will be evaluated annually at all seven stages of care. The pension adjustment factor shall be considered as a guide to the increase in the care allowance. In today's decision, I see a first good step along the long path to a comprehensive care reform. We all know that day-to-day care is becoming more urgent. Life expectancy is increasing steadily, and the older man becomes, the longer on average, but also the time he is living with complaints and diseases. In this respect, the focus must be on not just extending the lifetime, but rather on to increase all the healthy years. This provision starts in young years and not only in the pension. The whole subject complex needs to be rethinked from scratch. Above all, it takes a sensitive differentiation. Often everything is shaved over a comb and subsumed under care. In my opinion, this is too short, because the care of a 70-year-old woman with dementia has quite different conditions and consequences than the assistance of a 25-year-old wheelchair driver. We must therefore distinguish between care, care and assistance and look closely at what is different from one another and what follows from it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What unites all forms is the urgent need for action towards national harmonisation. We still have the state that opportunities and assigned benefits are dependent on residence, according to the federal state. This has been felt by many affected people, as well as me as a arbitrarily and as an insurmountable obstacle. There is also no logical reason why a person with disabilities in Vorarlberg has a different performance and opportunities than a Burgenländerin or a Burgenländer. To that end, I would like to call on the Ministry of Social Affairs to continue the talks started and not lose sight of the issue of personal assistance for people with disabilities. I would now like to point out briefly the difference between care and assistance. Care is largely passive for the person concerned. The caregiver or nurse usually decides what to do and also has the corresponding professional knowledge. On the other hand, in the case of assistance to people with disabilities, these are very active, because the people concerned are leading in support and determine how, when and where, something is to be done. They are experts on their own. Of course, this is also very individual and very different, but classical care is usually only a small part of the assistance. The disability is not and should not be the dominant issue in the life of a disabled person. But this only succeeds when the barriers are removed, and that is the task of the entire society, not of the individual. Please never forget: The disability is not the problem when a wheelchair driver does not enter a building due to stages. The steps will remain the problem. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23177	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23198	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate in the Financial Committee, you discussed with the Minister of Finance the budgetary issues relating to the valorization of the Federal Care Fund. Allow me now, from my point of view, to speak briefly to you as the Minister responsible for Federal Care and its design. The donation of the care allowance is a sensible measure, and I am also pleased as the minister responsible for the care, that this decision is being made today, because it will lead to important improvements in the current situation for the people receiving the care allowance. However, financial grants in the sense of cash benefits are only, and this has already been said several times today, an aspect of the whole system for the design of care in Austria, which we must pay attention to. On this point I can assure you that in my House all the work that has been started to create the necessary foundations for decisions of the next Federal Government in this sector will be further driven forward and will be available in a form during the autumn, that there will be a properly well-founded basis for the next Federal Government. Examples of this are material foundations in the design of new financing models. We will continue to work on the subject of caring families. They are a very important group of stakeholders, but they also provide concrete services. There will be an event in September in which we will address this comprehensively and with all stakeholders. A third major area will be to deal with dementia, in which we will set up new initiatives in cooperation with the media, in order to increase public awareness of this very sensitive issue also through appropriate information in the media. Not least – I am not only a Minister of Social Affairs, but I am also a Minister of Employment – we will ensure that the important area of nursing staff is further observed accordingly. We will endeavour to provide the basis for opening up access to care professions to new interest groups. So there will be no standstill. Today, a certain amount of expert activity has often been commented on. In any event, we will endeavour to provide the appropriate basis for policy decisions of the next government. Mr Rossmann, I may be able to make a brief addition to your speech. With regard to the calculations underlying the budget needs, the Minister of Finance and my office have acted closely with each other. It has not only been taken into account the purely numerical and percentage sizes that contribute to this financial need. Of course, we also need to take account of demographic developments and other factors if we are to have an objective basis for the additional financial needs and budgetary requirements. [[Abg. Rossmann: But all of this cannot lead to a doubling!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23235	Mr Linder. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23256	Thank you, Madam President. Dear women ministers! Mr. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! We've heard it today: Since 1993, the care money in value has fallen by almost 35 percent in purchasing power. It is high time that the annual adjustment required by the liberals has been implemented since 2006. I believe that this is an act of fairness, because with the abolition of the care rules, many people who have cared for their families at home have noticed that they are actually a bit the losers in this situation. The nursing home is free of charge, there is no access to assets. Conversely, those who care for at home who have to care for at home will continue to receive the same amount as a care allowance. This has led to our nursing homes being full and as communities we are in a situation where we need to expand nursing homes and have high investment costs. Unfortunately, the care at home has declined more and more. This creates enormous costs for the public sector. I think that with the annual adjustment of the care allowance there is also an incentive to care for the family more and more at home. From the public point of view, from the point of view of financing, money, it is very important, not only from the point of view of those concerned, the caregivers or the caregivers. The municipalities, which are very often involved in social assistance associations, have had huge cost increases in this area and the care allowance has remained the same. Mr Loacker, we are obliged by standards defined in the countries and the federal government to invest in quality, but we as operators have not received a fee in the form of an increased care allowance. That's very important. For us communities, care, the social area for older people, is one of the biggest chunks. Dear colleague Heinisch-Hosek, you are talking about new concepts. What you have mentioned is similar to the Carinthian concept, which only results in one thing, namely to extend the structures, to create further administrative structures. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Simplify!]] What we need is to have the cost under control and, if it is possible, to increase the quality. Whoever comes to a nursing home, where he finds one how the care looks like a 24-hour care service works – in this respect we in the community are at any time ready to advise the people. That's what we like to do. But it must not be so that we create additional structures that are not useful to those who are caring for, including the people in the homes. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's why I think if I can sum this up: The increase in care money is a very, very important step, on the one hand, because it is a further motivation for people to care for their families at home, to care for them at home, and on the other hand, because it is also a help for the communities to reduce cost increases and thus make the social sector a little easier for us as communities to finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23299	Mrs Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23320	Madam President. Dear women Federal ministers! Mr. Federal Minister! Before I deal with the topic of care, I still have a very, very big concern. I can address a word to Mrs Povysil, who is now suddenly gone again, but perhaps the colleagues - - no, she is here! – In your speech on conversion therapy, you have made a choice of words in connection with therapies, which I would really ask you to perhaps abandon in the future. [[Abg. Povysil returns to her place.]] Not all that is not school medicine is therefore already charlatanery. I can really ask you not to evade entire groups of professionals who work with passion on people. I know that's below your level, and I think that's gonna work with it. Thank you in advance. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Povysil: I don't know what she means, but please!]] On the subject of care, many things have already been said in terms of content, which I find very interesting. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you say the care money has been valorized, it has been valorized over and over again. In recent years, however, this has been the only answer to the issue of care, that one has always worked with the lever of care money, it has increased, but which has not solved the very big problem. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What is the problem?]] I can kind of remember that for about 25 years this has always been a subject that has been said that the system is sometimes no longer eligible for funding. The pure increase in the care allowance was a drop on the hot stone, one has not addressed the original problem. That's also the nice thing now, because I think it's the first time you've made the discussion big, really brought all the groups into the boat that all those who have to do with care in any form have heard. This is quite, very important, because everyone has their part to contribute to it. This may be the difference to your concept that both the Ministry and the Austrian People's Party have listened in full to what I have so perceived. They have also heard about community associations, but perhaps this is not quite as broad as you would like it to be. It is important, and this is now the sukkus from all over the world, that we finally have to break our heads about how we can set up the overall system correctly and financially in the long term. There you have your ideas and we have our ideas, the ministry is also working intensively on solutions. That is why we are now at a time when there will be a competition for ideas. It may be the best to win the most comprehensive idea, but it can also be financed in the long term! To say a word about Mr Rossmann is also a need for me. Mr Rossmann, if the only intention to valorize the care money is a return coach for party financing, then this is relatively thin and does not help the Austrian State at all. That was important to me. On the one hand, you say it's a chicken-punch action, on the other hand, your colleagues are going to care much too slowly. So be it, I think it's important that we have a big and holistic concept. I am very happy about the work in the Ministries to take out a little politics and to work objectively. I look forward to a good concept and am convinced that we will find an excellent solution in autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23382	I call Mr Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23403	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In advance, I would like to point out that the issue of care is not, in my view, a subject in which we must fall into ideological pitfalls, but we must work together on the subject in order to provide the best possible and long-term care for the many people in our country. I am also very grateful for the words of our new Federal Minister, who made it clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs the care concept, the documents drawn up by the previous government, will continue to be worked out in the transitional period until the next government formation. However, at the beginning – even though many previous speakers have already summarized the main points of the agenda item – allow me to make a brief summary. With the present draft law, which we will unanimously adopt today, the long-overdue valorization of the care allowance is decided not only as a unique one, but as an annual increase on the basis of the pension adjustment factor over – and I am particularly pleased with this – all stages of care, from Stage 1 to Stage 7. This, ladies and gentlemen, means a much greater improvement for those concerned than was previously foreseen in the government programme. It means that now, especially many people in care levels 1 to 3 will benefit from the annual adjustments, and these are mostly those who are still in domestic, often family care. This strengthening and attracting care at home is, in my view, a necessary measure to keep our care system financially viable in the long term. Mr Wöginger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to do so, and will be able to do so, because if care were to be transferred to the stationary area, the whole system would be even more expensive for us. In this way, the additional costs for increasing the care allowance are absolutely manageable and portable. From my personal point of view, I should like to mention a few points which we have not heard today regarding the question of how care could be further improved. First and foremost for the care allowance itself: In my view, it is necessary to adjust the amount of the care allowance for each stage even better to the actual effort needed to eliminate the imbalances between the various stages of care. Furthermore, I see the need for action during the classification into the care stages. Experts, especially those of the care services, should already have a say in the formation of the stone so that their expertise does not have to be brought in more elaborately and afterwards. Another point concerns family care, which has already been mentioned many times today. These, as well as a 24-hour care or any other form of mobile care in their own four walls, should be attracted by additional measures and should not lead to a higher financial burden on those concerned than is the case in the case of stationary care, because only in this way can we maintain the so far high proportion of domestic care even in the long term. Finally, I believe that the competence of care, in particular the qualified care, should be adapted to the requirements of reality and improved its working conditions and remuneration system, because only in this way can we counteract the existing shortage of care workers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the next Federal Government still has a lot to do in terms of care. Today, however, we will take a first important step towards improving the situation for all concerned with care needs. I would like to thank all the political groups for carrying this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23469	As no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 646 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also taking part in the third reading to give an appropriate signal. – That too is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. [[20:26:05]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 871/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, Wendelin Mölzer, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Education Investment Act (647 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23528	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Taschner has the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23555	Madam President. High house! This application for the Investment Law is a very important project. It is about financially ensuring the full-day care of six to 14-year-olds, and that is done by this law. We will be able to expand all day care, we will also be able to upgrade it qualitatively. All of this is contained in this law, and that is a very important matter. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, this law has already been prepared. This is a quarter of a billion euros, which is not a small amount that will be invested over a few years. This money has already been awarded, that is, this money has already been negotiated with Federal Minister Fäsmann and Federal Minister Löger. So we will not require additional budget resources, but we will be able to decide on this law without further burdening the budget with additional appropriations. I am pleased to report this to the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For countries and communities wishing to execute it, planning security is in any case possible by 2023. I would like to allow myself to add two footnotes on the occasion of this very good and important communication. The first footnote concerns afternoon care as such. It was very important for us to be able to support this afternoon care in various forms, including in the forms of so-called non-limited afternoon care, which means that parents can be given as much free space as possible in the design of children's education. This is very important to us. It is about maintaining the freedom of parents as ideal. Of course, this is also a certain risk that we impose on parents, but it is in our view how child rearing should be best done. The corset for this education should not be so firmly aligned that it will then become a premeditation by public authorities and by the state as well. We want to preserve real freedom in education. - That's the one point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The other point concerns the fact that this request has been made, because it was not the current Federal Government that introduced this request to Parliament. It was the parliamentarians themselves who took the initiative, including colleague Mölzer and my ability to ensure that this law has now come into being. I am grateful to him and to all other colleagues in the Committee on Education that this has succeeded. I am also grateful for the good organization and coordination – without which we would have been thrown out. You don't usually call the names, but here I want to call parties pro toto Roman Kunyik and Walter Asperl, who really supported us so that this can work so well. That's a good news. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Kucher! – I don’t see him right now, maybe You tell him: He has the direct or almost direct wire to the head of the Carinthian state, so that he can tell whom the head of the Carinthian state, who had been very committed to this law, can owe it to and to whom he can address his thanks if this law is now introduced. It was actually the 27. May, in fact, I would like to say, in a spirit hour, this situation had caused this situation. You have attested to a German chancellor, not only Austria, but the state firms of Europe and the whole world to the highest degree of far-sightedness, sense of responsibility and courage, yes, to which you – I would like to say: ira et studio would say Tacitus – have expressed distrust with anger and wrath. [[Abg. Lightness: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: But there is another opinion too!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: No, this is a mistake!]] [[Abg. Lightenness: With great serenity we have expressed our distrust!]] [[Further calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Leichtfried.]] I have to tell you, this has happened because of an idea of the leader of a party that is now in the process of being dissolved. You have already forgotten that the Socialist Party from Adler to Kreisky has always presented itself with fame, pride and honor. You've still gone below this level. You have expressed your distrust not only to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but also to the entire Federal Government, Minister Fäsmann, a man without a flaw and a blame, a minister who, after ten years of ideologically occupied education policy, expressed the hope, you have so to speak - - - I think you have not fully understood why these ladies and gentlemen complained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Abg. Lightness: Did you find out? There is now the ÖVP clap because we have expressed our distrust!]] [[Abg. Plessl: The government had no more majority!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöger: That's Styrian logic!]] So this minister who has prepared this law, you have denied that he can say: This is also an important part of our education policy. – Getting Now They also believe that this law is in place. Well, it is,but a narrow aftertaste remains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23723	Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e23745	Madam President, Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! After this trip, I would like to return to the real subject. It is about the Education Investment Act and the expansion of schools all day long. This is a very, very central and important part of modern education policy. Austria is only one of very few countries in Europe and internationally, which these schools do not yet have in general schooling. Education scientist Michael Schratz once pointed it out very sharply: that Austria and Germany still rely on a half-day model, considered by the international glasses, anyway, only one cure. That's how I see it. It is a cure, because in all-day schools we have the time to design, learn, support, demand, promote, play, offer sports, music, art, simply offer the students options to develop their potential and their talents freely. This is central, as I mean, and for us social democrats always an important concern: the best education for our children along their talents and their potential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The focus is on equal opportunities, ladies and gentlemen. In all day school we have the time for it. We have the time to support them. The figures also speak a very, very clear language. The number of seats – and I only take a number now – is reduced from 8.4 per cent to 1.4 per cent in the restricted school. We do not need to continue discussing which school model is better, and also the experts from OECD, the Commission and so on, write us back and forth in the main book to speed up the development of all-day schools. In 2016, we made the proud sum of 750 million euros, dear colleague Taschner, not 250 million euros, but 750 million euros from the banking billion for the expansion of all day schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This was a plus of 115 000 schools all day long until 2025 – the plan. These funds should also be used for holiday care. But what has the Black and Blue Federal Government done? – It has decided very quickly to do so and to drive around the law and has extended the period of expansion until 2033. Out of the 115 000 seats, only 40 000 were suddenly added. [[Abg. Plessl: They have it!]] This law, unfortunately, is also used to water down heavily and to co-finance other areas, because the 40 000 places that are still left are also included in the horde in order to achieve the goal faster and easier. They will also be able to be promoted in the future. In addition: First, Black and Blue abolished the integration stopper, the social workers removed. Now they are being promoted from this same pot – again a watering. In addition, Black-Blue simply removed our provision, our sustainable plan for the long-term financing of existing all-day schools in financial compensation in the task orientation, and now we are still financing it out. So the plan is relatively clear, and it is foreseeable where this law will lead us, namely that the school-holders will naturally have a great interest in financing their existing places and their horde, because otherwise they will have no way to do so, and the motivation to expand will remain to a great extent. As a social democracy, the communities and school-keepers are important to us. That's clear. That is why we will vote in favour of this amendment. However, we have also made a request in the Committee on Education, and here again I am bringing the amendment to the report of the Committee on Education on the motion for a resolution 871/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, Wendelin Mölzer, colleagues on a federal law amending the Education Investment Act. This amendment states: We want to return to the original path; 2026 is to be the development goal. We want to combine this extension with a guarantee of care for children who need it during the holidays, because we know from the studies, from the figures – and not least from the Chamber of Labour – that parents have problems caring for children nine weeks in the vacation, to find care opportunities at all. They spend 450 euros on this in the year. Not everyone can afford it. This guarantee of care is therefore a central concern and is also interwoven with us. What is added is that 35,000 pupils need to carry out a review. In other words, in addition to holiday support, learning assistance is a very important concern for us, and this is also contained in the application accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear colleagues from the ÖVP, from the FPÖ, give your hearts a back and we support the parents, especially the students! With our amendment, go to a faster, faster expansion of the school all day with learning aid and with holiday support! Finally, I can thank the educators very much, very much, and wish them a wonderful holiday together with the students and the support staff at the schools. Enjoy the days of relaxation and a good new school year! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24223	The amendment has been presented in broad outlines, is properly filed and is under negotiation after it has also been distributed. The next item is the speech by Mr Mölzer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24255	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Taschner has already made a very precise point of how this request has been made. It is important, I believe, that we have done this here in Parliament or are being done today and that we implement an essential measure in the Interregnum – if you want to do so. Of course, I also agree with the thanks to the contributors involved in the teaching committee, to the two experts, that this has worked so well. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mrs Hammerschmid, you have rightly said that we must be concerned about creating the best possible training, equal opportunities and the same for our children in the field of education. That is a matter of course, that is, a stand that you also have to live with. You mentioned it, you made that 2016 with some mistakes if you want to, and under wrong conditions. In our opinion, the main false condition of the fact that you tried to do this about compulsion was that it didn't work completely. The second is that the initial funding as such has obviously not been collected. We know that. If you complain that with today's innovation we would not encourage the communities, the school-keepers, to expand further, then I can remind you that it is just your social-democratic colleague, Mr. State captain Peter Kaiser, who said that we absolutely need the novel to expand. So they wouldn't have done it with your model. I am convinced that through our federalism we have a diverse country. On the one hand, we have well known urban agglomerations, on the other hand we also have a lot of rural areas that have quite different needs. This multi-faceted country also needs multi-faceted solutions. This is something that we are taking into account today in this innovation, I believe, and which we take into account accordingly. It has been mentioned several times by Mr Taschner that we are carrying out a needs-oriented expansion of the school forms all day long. We will secure the financial resources and manage to create another 40 000 places by 2022. We are making an administrative simplification by only making the distribution more about the countries. We ensure that the school and non-school care facilities are the same. This makes sense in a multi-faceted country. At the same time, we also note that there must, of course, be certain quality standards for these non-school care facilities; nor is this insignificant and also a mistake that happened to you at the time, ladies and gentlemen Hammerschmid, or those who have decided to do so. The schools equipped with public law will also return to the funding rail. That is, I think, not entirely irrelevant. So we manage to repair the light punch from 2016 – this is what Mr Taschner has already mentioned. One essential point from a free point of view is that we are going to push for parental freedom of choice. We know from many practical examples that the limited form of day-to-day schooling or schooling has not been accepted, especially in rural areas, so the freedom of choice of parents was affected. This was a central freedom requirement; without us, the liberals would not have been in the government programme. I'm glad, Mr. Tashner, that you see this as it is. I can remember, however, that we really had to negotiate this issue of freedom of choice at the time. That is why I am very pleased that we are doing this, because of course we are all in agreement: We need an extension of all day care forms – but not with compulsion in just one direction. However, it is not only about the extension, but also about the preservation of these forms of care – we will also ensure with this template accordingly. With the co-financing of 30 percent by the countries and the municipalities, we manage to ensure a higher number of care places and thus make them more sustainable. We have just done quite well, I believe, that there will be orderly framework conditions and legal certainty for school holders in the future. To the SPÖ amendment request – Free post-aid keyword –: On the one hand, I really have to say that our request provides for appropriate funding. I just don't think free mentality is good, we believe that this is not the case. However, we are still creating an improvement in the offer, which is also low-slip for social weakness. The teaching committee – Mrs Hammerschmid, you know that – has once again stated for safety reasons that learning support is also definitely a follow-up. It is intended and covered. I think there will be an improvement, too. We will also address this problem of the superfluous need for further assistance. So I'm finally holding on to it: On the one hand, we create an efficient means assurance and, on the other hand, from a liberal point of view, particularly important – the corresponding freedom of choice. This will certainly work a lot better and will certainly be better accepted. Of course, parents and students will benefit accordingly. Although we still have two further teaching documents on the agenda today and tomorrow, I think that is the leading conclusion of another educational policy, an educational policy that has not had a socialist impact. I hope – we will see what the voters will say in autumn – that we can continue this education policy in some way. One thing is clear: I believe that we liberals are just a guarantee that we will not make a socialist, not a social democratic, but a successful, and the needs of our citizens, our students, just education and education policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24343	Next, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24365	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Mölzer, I would like to ask one thing from the next government about education policy, namely that it is an evidence-based education policy and not one – that is exactly what I have to criticise again on this novel – which is only about playing left against right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] That is exactly what we have again and again. This is the feeling of the tenth novel that we have in the Education Investment Act, which is only about undoing what the previous government has done, and that is, I think, bad for the students at the end of the day, because it happens on their backs. If you look at this educational investment law, it is quite disillusioning what is taking place there. The previous focus – already carried out by my previous speakers – has been strengthened away from the restricted school of the whole day to the separate one. That means that at the end of the day exactly this model, which we know works very well – Mrs. Hammerschmid has done it very well – and we know that it creates more opportunities for students. As a result, I think that exactly this no longer available transformation possibility is a real disaster from the separate one into the limited whole-day care – one has to say so because the student really takes chances. In addition, the de facto reduction in the amount of money available for the expansion of full-day places from 2025 to 2032 is the extension of the funds whose use was extended from 2025 to 2032. We also know that this is a very important and attractive offer for parents in particular, because it is important for parents to know, that their children are well cared for in school and then really get a lot of things for life there. We must never forget: In school we should and will give the young people the craftsmanship for their lives. This is something great and important, and there the restricted form is a very important one. But the glass is not completely empty, but half full, as you can say. There are also things that are positive. One thing we have been fighting for a long time is that private schools are finally taken into account by public law, can make these offers and are eligible for funding. That's something we've been fighting NEOS for a long time, and that's the case now. It is also positive that at least 5 percent of the funds that have not been used can be used for support staff. That is something I quite welcome. There is far too little budget available for the support staff, but it is at least an important step so that we have more resources. You must not forget one thing either: If we did not decide on this educational investment law today before the so-called summer break, that is, the Parliament's sitting-free time, then we would have a very big problem in autumn, namely that some 40 000 newly created places are not created and that even the 132 000 existing places are not secured – even financially, are not secured. Of course, we do not want to make a policy at the expense of the students, so we will go along with it and assume our political responsibility. Nevertheless, I would like to say that already at the end of the day, it is important that the next Federal Government assumes its political responsibility and does not re-arrange it, but at last makes evidence-based education policy for the next generation.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24426	The next item is Mrs Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24447	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We will certainly agree to the amendment to the Education Investment Act today, because it will strengthen a number of important points, which the colleagues have already mentioned before me. It is particularly important to ensure that all day care is financed from autumn onwards. This is a fact and we do not want to refuse it, because families depend on all day care, especially when it comes to the compatibility of family and profession. Especially in Vienna and in urban areas there are already very good offers. However, it is important that we also expand this offer in rural areas. Thus, the Education Investment Act must make progress in expanding day-to-day care. On this point, however, we see this novelle very critically, because it slows down the extension of the care. It has already been mentioned: The aim of increasing all day care for school-based children by 2025 from 20 to 40 percent is more critical at the moment, because it has been watered down and stretched out. I am eager to see if we really achieve this goal – it would be desirable. At the moment, however, I see even more Black. That is why we will definitely agree with the SPÖ amendment. I also see critically the fact that the government is celebrating the funding of support staff through the BIG as a success because it is a farce. The funding from the integration stop will run out until the end of this school year, and instead of extending it, funds will now be depleted from the Education Investment Act, which means that the care for dependent children will be limited. That's something I don't think is good. For us, holiday support is also essential. We have already tabled a number of proposals, including those in the committee itself, which have been postponed. We'll see the holidays start. Many of the parents have five weeks of vacation a year. We know that the children now have more than two months of vacation. Then, of course, the parents ask themselves the question: What happens to my kids? – That’s a question I don’t want any mother, no father, no family in this form. This means that there is definitely a need for further expansion, because care in the holiday must be manageable and especially at secondary level I. That's our goal. It's the same with the follow-up. Because it is very often still dependent on the parents' wallets, whether re-help is possible. According to a committee statement, this is included in the novelle. I am not only calling for a targeted and generous extension of holiday care, but also for assistance. As long as I am still in the house, I will look particularly at the fact that these demands will also be implemented with this novel of the Education Investment Act. It is also about financing security for school holders and the federal states. It is important not to forget this because it must also be clarified. I see it as very positive that unused funding funds are also available. That's very good. Finally, it is about expanding all day care for our children, because the compatibility of family and profession must not be a foreign word in 2019. It must be present. It must be assured that this is possible, because that also means freedom of choice. You can only have freedom of choice if there are enough places for all day care for children who are dependent on school. That means, of course, a plea for this freedom of choice can only be made if there are enough places. We agree with this today. I'm positive. But it is definitely still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24499	The next item is Mrs Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24520	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! Since 2012, Austrian sport has been seeking a daily movement unit at Austrian schools. This unit of activity is a good condition for the health of our children and should also give them pleasure in sports – even beyond school time. In addition, for some talent it can mean entry into successful performance sports. Even here in the National Council there was already consensus for the implementation of the daily movement unit. ==References====External links== In November 2012, the European Commission unanimously adopted the following amendments: daily movement unit in kindergartens and schools by including the offers of organized sports, for example, decided in all day care. In fact, it has succeeded – I remember the decision of the law in 2015 – that the daily movement unit is already a reality in the whole day-to-day school form. However, we believe that the primary objective should continue to be the national implementation of a daily movement unit for all children – from the infant to the end of school. It is all the more surprising that the SPÖ was on the 12th. December 2018 did not agree with the request from me and my colleague Petra Steger on “Safering sufficient sport and movement in our schools”. This proposal includes a daily movement unit for all children and young people in compulsory school age, to be offered by non-profit sports clubs at schools. So the SPÖ voted against the daily movement unit half a year ago. SPÖ-Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner, however, announced a resolution for the Julynum in mid-June – unfortunately, she is not present at the moment, but shines by absence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we should agree with the organized sport that not only must all be state schooling hours, but that associations can come to the schools via the daily movement unit. That is why we want to give you the opportunity today to join us for a daily movement unit involving non-profit associations for all children and young people in compulsory schooling. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[20:57]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24657	The request just read is sufficiently supported, properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. Next, Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the advanced time as the responsible Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research, please allow me to comment a few words on the Education Investment Act. They have already thoroughly exchanged on the factual arguments and advantages of this law. I would like to thank you very much at this point. They say that this particularly important law for parents or for pupils today is apparently – as it looks – even unanimously to be adopted. But above all, I would like to thank you for taking the initiative to discuss and take up this issue here in the House, after – which has already been referred to by Mr Tashner – my predecessor, Federal Minister Fäsmann, has prepared, prepared and examined this subject well and has also examined it intensively. Of course, not everything found in this law in this form will come to absolute agreement. This can hardly be the case in such a large and broad subject. However, the assessment has shown that both the municipal and local authorities as well as the Länder have seen the present law mainly positive, that they particularly see the security of stocks very, very positive – an essential requirement which can also be learned and done positively with this proposal. At the same time, it is very important that the 40 percent growth target can be achieved even earlier. Mrs Cox, I can assure you that the Ministry will do everything it can to ensure that we achieve this 40 percent target as quickly as possible and even early as possible. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] You have already said everything essential to the various budget resources available. I can only refer to this point: From 2022 onwards, there will certainly be some way to bring the issue into the financial balance, as will always be the case with a next federal government. This is, of course, not prejudicial with this request and with this law. At the same time, however, I am also very positive that part of the support staff will find the possibility of further funding beyond the integration stop by co-financing the countries with this law. It is also a very essential signal for the student to make a contribution here. I would like to express my warmest thanks at this point for the fact that this issue has been treated in such a positive way, and would like to thank you, also on behalf of all the parents and students concerned, for the implementation of this law in autumn, for the security of stocks and for this legal certainty.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24733	Mr Schandor is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24754	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The Education Investment Act was adopted by the red and black government in 2017. The liberals did not support this at the time, but the initiative for the repair of this law was negotiated into the turquoise-blue government programme. I would also like to thank the members of the EIA in the teaching committee for the joint work done. The result is at the table. We know that the current article-15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries to expand the whole day school with the summer semester 2019, i.e. this week, expires. And we also know from the teaching committee and from Federal Minister Fässmann that the lack of resources was not responsible for the sluggish expansion, but rather part of the This was not the case at all by the countries and by the municipalities. I would like to appeal to colleagues Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Cox: They lack the experience of a councillor. That is why I would recommend that you perhaps become politically active in a municipal council, because then you know what fears and concerns the communities have. I know this from my municipality of Fürstenfeld, which is also about the staff costs that the communities have to bear, especially as regards the part of the daytime school, and that is not an insignificant one. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is therefore a question of supporting the communities by means of this Education Investment Act. The BIG, as it is mentioned in short, regulates the distribution of a considerable sum, i.e. 750 million euros over a period from 2020 to 2033; 428 million of these will be allocated to the countries. 80 percent of the unused funds from the Article 15a agreement can be retrieved next year and taken with them by 2022, and that is 203 million euros. And if you are already with the figures, you also have to say that 75 percent can be used for the expansion, if the expansion stage has not yet been achieved, and 25 percent are available for existing day support for quality improvement, but also for these personnel costs. Mr Mölzer has already talked in detail about the objectives of this law – I do not want to repeat this here, but may refer briefly to the educational report. In the school year 2017/2018, 151,000 pupils were cared for. We want to create 40 000 places by 2022. The aim is therefore: 40 percent of all schoolchildren between six and 15 years of age are to be cared for. If you compare this with the figures from the education report again, you have to note that in Vienna we have a share of 37.3 percent, in Tyrol one of only 10.5%, and in Styria, in my federal state, one of 20.8 percent. In the long term, therefore, our objective is to ensure the financing of the expansion, but also to secure the stock. This leads to planning security for our communities and ultimately also for the families and for the children. That's why I'm looking for all of you to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24806	Mrs Salzmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24827	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers at the gallery and at home in front of the equipment, if any of these very, very important debates follow! How beautiful it is if our colleagues are so united! I am really pleased that we will be voting together today on this Education Investment Act, as it seems to be with a large majority. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is very, very important. In the countries, in the congregations, there is an urgent need to wait, and it is basically up to the students and their parents. It is absolutely necessary that this law comes and that the school day care and also the out-of-school care in all-day school forms are guaranteed during holiday periods, because we really need planning safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The law creates a seamless transition from the now pending 15a agreement, which has provided for a further expansion of all-day school forms. This law provides a framework for the development of these all day school forms without preferring the restricted form. And this law creates quality standards for non-school care institutions – and this, ladies and gentlemen, is also a very essential point in this law. 40 000 additional care places and, Mrs Hammerschmid, we also create these 750 million euros. You put it in apologies, but it's true! By 2022 we will create secure care places for 40 percent of students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is important to us, and what is important to us, we are also moving forward. The federal government will take over 70 percent of the costs and the countries will take over 30 percent of the costs. Yes, 150 million euros from the 15a agreement have not been collected so far. This shows that there is real need. We want a proper extension of these care facilities, and we certainly want to ensure the freedom of choice of the parents. That's important to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The right to education still rests with parents, and we will certainly guarantee it. Mrs Hammerschmid, you are carrying the comprehensive school of the whole day as a postulate, but I would like to make one clear. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The best school!]] We must not go into a compulsion, it must remain voluntary for the parents! This is very important to us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Hammerschmid, you put the words in my mouth! They ask: What has the government done, what has the Minister of Education done? – I can assure you, as much as in the last one and a half years I can only congratulate Federal Minister Fäsmann for his work, for the work he has done with his employees. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Please go!]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: Go back!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You weren't there yet!]] Many essential steps have been taken. And what was new and really has a high quality: Finally, the expertise of the professionals from the practice has also been taken back into account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the amendment tabled by the SPÖ, I would like to say that: I am a little surprised at this, because the expansion plans with the countries are now simply quietly deleted. So that's not our style, and that's also a very clear step back for me. If you are talking about free follow-up and learning support, I can assure you that there is already a lot of learning assistance and support in the afternoon service in schools. - That's one. The other thing I want to keep clear: But there will not be a pure free mentality with us, because for a performance that is worth something, one can also pick up a moderate contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But education must be accessible free of charge! Sorry!]] And what surprises me a lot: They call for the development of care facilities themselves at sites which are at risk of their survival. So it's clear to me: You have to deal with the funds properly and can actually only expand at locations where the school remains realistic. Everything else wouldn't be understandable to me. We need this law so that the countries - - - Mrs Colleague, you can enroll yourself in the list of speakers and can also speak for yourself! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But small schools must not be closed!]] [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But I can call!]] We need this law to ensure that the countries and communities have planning security. It is very important for us: We don't let the parents down. That is why we will now adopt the BIG, as planned by the previous government, by a large majority. The thanks to the teachers are very important to me at the end. I say thank you to the teachers for their valuable commitment to our children and young people, and I wish from this point of view very consciously to all school partners, students, parents and teachers relaxing holidays. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e24996	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25018	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Mrs Hammerschmid, I ask you: What didn't you do? Why didn't the expansion of the whole day school work? – You have decided a budget of 320 million euros by 2025. This is all right, but you have forgotten one thing, namely the financial compensation and the distribution of tasks – the Court of Auditors has always, for years already criticized it –, the expenditure/task orientation or, if you put it differently, the following: He who buys has to pay too! It's too little to go here on the side of the federal government and say: We provide large sums for the expansion of the whole day school!, but to forget that the communities are responsible and responsible for the compulsory schools. The municipalities have the infrastructure to provide the school buildings, they have the extra-school staff to finance and they have the running costs to finance. However, many municipalities in Austria are unable to bear these costs because of their financial situation. That's why it was. Your concept, which you defended from the speaker's desk today, cannot be implemented. It has simply missed the co-financing of local authorities in these areas. That's the way it was. Your concept is a purely theoretical concept, and this concept will now be improved by the decision-making of the Education Investment Act, thus eliminating the crucial errors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's why your program didn't work. - That's the one thing. The second thing is: The whole day school is always presented as the pedagogical miracle. They know, however, that the baby has not been presenting a national educational report to all of us here too long ago, and that children of better placed parents, children of parents who are better educated, who have a higher level of education, visit all day schools in the urban area and all those children for whom the visit to all day school would be necessary and important, especially the children with migration background, just this whole day school does not attend. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Maybe it's too expensive?! It'll cost you something!]] – I’ll get to the cost anyway! But that's your problem, and you haven't solved this problem either. What is not going on is now your approach to say: Because we have educational problems because children with migration backgrounds need all day school, we make this mandatory for all children! It doesn't work. We are a Freedom Party for Freedom of Choice. In other words, parents must be able to decide for themselves whether they want to take advantage of the offer of an all-day school or not. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And there is a huge difference between rural and urban areas. That is why your ideological demand to introduce a restricted school of the whole day cannot be implemented. That doesn't work, and we don't want to. At the cost: The Court of Auditors has also provided us with interesting figures. There are extreme differences in costs. I quote the Court of Auditors: An urban hort in Vienna requires 227.17 euros per child and month, a Salzburg compulsory school with full day care 137 euros. So that's 90 euros difference. Why are there such extreme differences? Or vice versa: Why are rural schools more able to deliver cheap offers than schools and horte, for example, in Vienna? These questions must also be clarified before we ask ourselves the question of total funding. Under the rule we have another problem to solve: We also need to ensure the financial potential of communities, and in turn the financial compensation is required. You know very well that, as a Freedom Party, we have been criticising this graded population key for centuries, because it is a disadvantage to communities with few inhabitants. You didn't make that change either. But we have to do that. Finally, I note that the Freedom Party was not involved in the financial settlement negotiations until 2017. This has been done by the ÖVP with the SPÖ and left us many construction sites. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25096	Members of the Brandweiner have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25117	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! In view of the advanced hour, I will keep short. [[Call the SPÖ: Good night!]] But let me also say a few personal words at my first plenary session! I would like to thank my predecessor Angela Fichtinger for her long-standing commitment to Austria and especially for our forest district. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Angela, I know you're watching, so thank you very much! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] I would also like, of course, to thank my friends, my family, all first and foremost my wife Katharina. You have always been a strong support and especially the last days and weeks, and it does well to know that this will be the case in the future. But now to the content: When it comes to childcare, we are talking about a subject that is very strongly in social change, in a positive social change. What do I mean by that? With us in the forest district, but certainly also elsewhere in Austria is just the main table of the place where you feel it. In my family name Brandweiner, the wine is in there. [[Abg. Krainer: Branntwein!]] The wine was once placed in a quarter glass from the Doppler, today it is served in the eighth glass and now at the high summer temperatures also gladly sprayed with mineral. But not only have drinking habits changed, but also the topics and also the compositions have changed. A common table is no longer a pure men's round, and of course it has changed the topics as well. When my grandpa was at the main table, child care was probably not a topic yet. It's different today. Yes, I like to be at the main table, and of course there's talk about it. There is talk about the care options that exist, how to divide this into the family. Today, it is almost common for both parents to go to work, because of course they have to organize themselves, and our job in Parliament is to support people. With the Education Investment Act, we are heading in the right direction in relation to all-day school forms. Our ambitious goal – it has already fallen a few times today – is to reach 40 percent of students either in school forms or in non-school care facilities in 2022. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this has also often been the case today: We are creating 40 000 new places to support this law. We create planning security for schools, for clubs, for horte, for the parents and also for the ladies and gentlemen who work in the institutions, and of course also for the communities and ultimately also for the children. In my home region, in the Waldviertel, we are largely well positioned in this regard. But funding is a major challenge. That is why I am pleased when, with this Education Investment Act, we are supporting Newly in overcoming this challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say that I am looking forward to a constructive, good cooperation for our countrymen, for our home country, for our Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25182	Member Kovacevic has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25204	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have already been described by the previous speakers: It is about that the 15a agreement will soon end and therefore the necessary means of expanding all day school forms for the countries and, above all, for the municipalities as school holders are not yet secured. That is why we are now discussing this law. We will, of course, agree to the request, but only because the federal states and, subsequently, the municipalities depend on these funds, and we must not leave the countries and the municipalities alone in this matter. Professor Taschner, it is good that you agree or take note of the fact that we agree to this request. Of course, it is essential for us that the expansion of school forms is carried out and promoted throughout the day. That is why we shall also be voting in favour of this proposal. With regard to what was said earlier in relation to this law and to the fact that we were in arrears, I think the government was in arrears. They abolished the task-oriented financial compensation. Now the funds previously provided for the expansion of all-day school forms are in the BIG, and they must also be used for existing facilities. For example, the funds have also been removed from the integration stop, and now funds from the BIG have to be used. So the whole thing is watered down, and the resources are getting less and less. But this is precisely the criticism of why we do not agree with many parts of the law. The main criticism is still the reduction of funds, the extension of the time limit for the collection of funds. We have already heard: We have decided to use the so-called banking billions by 2025, and the failed turquoise-blue government now extends this deadline until 2033 – in our view absolutely unnecessary, because with the time horizon you are looking for – that is what you have to think about – today, born children will be already at the end of school. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A very important point, because ÖVP and FPÖ are constantly conjured by this, concerns the pressure or freedom of choice. Please, where have you heard from a SPÖ representative or a SPÖ representative that there will be a compulsion or that the freedom of choice of the parents should be abolished? This is freely invented and lacks any basis! That's not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It's not free to invent, it's said ten years already!]] – That’s not true, but it’s quite simple: In order for the people to be able to take advantage of this offer, it must also be created. But if we put in the return journey and reduce the offer, people can't use it either. [[Abg. Wöginger: From Cradle to Bahre...!]] A classic example: They also mentioned the rural areas where this should not be necessary. Mrs Salzmann, of course we have raised this point in our amendment. They provide for the possibility that rural sites will be closed or not offer a full-day school form. This does not correspond to our sense of expansion, because that will drive those parents who need the offer away from rural areas into urban areas. That, please, can't be our will. We want to avoid rural flight and strengthen rural areas in this sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As well as short cut: The amendment clearly states that we also want to force learning support, that we also want to strengthen re-help. This also includes technical support specifically over the summer. If someone has a review in September, he may also need support in repeating and solidifying the learning material. Under the rule: An offer of full-day school forms for at least 40 percent of children between six and 15 years of age would be accessible with a little more will. We now need measures to improve the compatibility of family and work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25280	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 647 of the supplements. Mr Hammerschmid, Members of Parliament, tabled an amendment. That is why I shall first vote on the amendment and the parts concerned, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Mr Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment on paragraphs 4, 6 and 8. Whoever raises the voice for this, I ask him to give a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – That is now unanimous. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. We shall now proceed to the third reading. This draft law is also unanimously adopted at third reading. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Tanja Graf, Mr Petra Steger, colleagues, on 'daily movement for all children and young people in compulsory schooling'. [[All Members rise from their seats.]] - Come on, look! There's movement coming up. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is unanimous. (E 83) – Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[21:27:59]] 24. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 872/A by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner, Wendelin Mölzer, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for Professionals, Colleagues and Preparation Courses, the compulsory school law 1985 and the Education Documentation Act (648 d.b.) 25. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 893/A(E) by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues on alternative assessment at the primary school (649d.b.) 26. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 32/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid, colleagues on the re-introduction of numbers in primary school (650 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25412	We shall now proceed to items 24 to 26 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25439	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are legally dealing with a large package of detailed arrangements. At the beginning, I would like to focus very briefly on three main topics in order to make the subject more difficult. The first major point is the modernisation of the curriculum of polytechnic schools. The compartment canon is modernized. It refers to orientation and specialization, which in principle is very positive. However, there is also fact that instead of individual promotion and modern pedagogy, this is the negative point in it, separating and stigmatizing in it, because the performance groups are suddenly back there. [[Abg. Worm: Go, please, Mrs. Hammerschmid!]] The second major point is the transfer of data from kindergarten to folk school. This is particularly about the transfer of language promotion measures, which can then be immediately connected in the public school. [[Abg. Worm: Good too, isn't it?]] In the 2016 school law package, we have already planned this, we have also provided an educational compass for it, which has also been piloted. Now, out of the voluntary commitment, we are going to have an obligation to do what we also welcome. The third point in this package is the amendment of the Education Documentation Act, which is intended to adapt to the General Data Protection Regulation. [[Abg. Worm: You welcome that too!]] There is nothing to object to, but what is involved is the individual measurement of competence. We remember, the old government, the turquoise-blue government, has an individual competence measurement mandatory 3.4. School level, 7./8. School level planned. We don't know her. We do not know what is planned for this individual measurement of competence. We don't have a draft of it. We don't know how she's supposed to work. We have no opinion on education science either, we have no opinion from the educators, and how often we have this turquoise blue phenomenon again, without details, without consideration, simply so, without discouraging anything. The alarm bells start ringing when former Minister of Education Fäsmann says that this should be another basis for decision for the school career, vulgo AHS reception tests. What we know, however, is that 50 million euros for establishing the standard education test, which has allowed us to take a look at the school system and thus to make school development very targeted, that these 50 million euros are now simply blown into smoking for the creation and ten-year implementation, thus taking the basis for school development. How big, ladies and gentlemen, must the fear of a worse cut in view of the measures taken by the last Federal Government if one simply shifts away this basis from the standard educational test? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we also know or already suppose is that the individual competence measurement will shift the responsibility away from the school and suddenly the individual individual, the child, will be hanged. Not the school is largely responsible for the educational success, but the child is suddenly alone and in the rain – it cannot be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The director of the OECD Andreas Schleicher said only last week in a small round: A good education system is characterized by the self-understanding that all children can create it, regardless of their social background. It focuses on this right of opportunity. [[Abg. Worm: You never brought this together, unfortunately God!]] These measures do not support them, and therefore, as social democrats, we call for the separate vote of this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25538	Mr Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25559	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! The later the evening, the more beautiful the themes. Ladies and gentlemen! Many students have already accepted their holidays last Friday. I wish you all nice holidays, including those that follow this Friday. However, we are able to thank God that, under the Education Investment Act, we can now also bring another important legislative novel to the school organisation law by creating the conditions for us to re-establish the polytechnic school. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to an acute shortage of skilled workers, we have a strong lack of apprentices. Only nearly 10,000 job seekers come to open 12 500 apprenticeships. One reason for this is certainly that the really international excellent teaching is not yet so appreciated, but it is certainly also true that the young people are partly inadequately trained at a possible start to teaching. In a survey by the Chamber of Commerce, almost 40 percent of companies recently reported that they would recruit more apprentices if they had the right training. What can we do about it now? – By the past government, especially by Minister Schramböck, the creation of a number of teaching professions, such as the process engineer or the application developer – coding, has already taken important steps to create attractive and modern teaching professions and careers. We thank her and the entire government for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, we also need to prepare young people for a possible teaching. With this new law, we allow for a curriculum change by regulation in order to keep this training up-to-date in the polytechnic schools. In particular, it should be practical and ensure a good transition into the world of work and teaching, because that the professional world is undergoing a massive change, I think, is already known. You have to But it is precisely this change that the last government wanted, and we are continuing to do so. With this new law, we focus on future skills. The application of Mint subjects plays an ever-increasing role for the professional world, so the current reform with the transfer of the applied computer science is so necessary from a free space to a compulsory subject for all students. Computer skills are today, ladies and gentlemen, just as important as reading, writing and computing, and with this law we also secure the so-called computer literature for the next generations. We also want to make the previous mandatory content more practical. Mathematics was too theoretical, now we make it the Applied Mathematics. German we polish a little with communication and make sure that all of this not only remains gray theory, but also that we learn what helps us in the professional world. In this context, I would also like to mention the adaptation of the disciplines, because they are also made more practical and, above all, compatible. For example, those who choose the focus metal can also sniff into the field of electro. This is important if, for example, one prepares for the teaching profession of mechatronics, a teaching profession that is increasingly needed in the economy. In this context, the last essential redesign in the poly is also important, i.e. the expansion of the orientation phase, because not everyone can imagine at the age of 15, for example, what a mechatronic should do in electric test stands. That is exactly what we are trying to do: to prepare them for future teaching professions at this point in time of orientation. But it is crucial, above all, what a director of a polytechnic school in Carinthia said to me, for example: His secret recipe are two factors: fascination on the one hand and cooperation on the other. How do we create fascination? – In particular, we create fascination with teachers from the professional world. There is, for example, a former aircraft manufacturer who has built a suitable propeller machine with the students. That's exactly what creates motivation and interest in future teaching professions. What is cooperation? – Cooperation with companies partly enables young people to get into the companies and thus to avoid the fear of looking for a job and for a teaching post afterwards. That's exactly what we have to put on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, my goal and my vision are that the polytechnic schools in Austria will be the starting point of success, so to speak, becoming a high-potential programme for the innovation society in Austria. In any case, however, this branch of the school must, by means of local political misguided statements, come to an end, as unfortunately happened in the red Vienna tragically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25635	Member of the Cox Committee has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25657	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One of my most beautiful and exciting actions and also moments was the work in which we looked at the topic of special schools in Upper Austria. This was specifically about the action “Saves the I- Classes’. Parents, directors, teachers and students themselves have not only come to Vienna, but they wanted to save their I classes in a large-scale action. That is our thanks to God, and that is something I am very proud of. This was particularly cross-group, and I really have to say that we have taken a cross-group approach and, fortunately, we have simply allowed a framework that has not only enabled a successful school attempt, but through which we have seen how inclusion, how integration can work. [[Congratulations with NOW and NEOS.]] In Vienna we also have an example, namely the Integrative Learning Workshop Brigittenau. I was allowed to look at them myself. There you can see that these places are not just attempts, but places where much is learned, taught and lived together. To the case of Upper Austria: First, there were in Upper Austria inclusion classes at special schools as a long-term transitional solution, as a school attempt; after long negotiations, the inclusion classes at Upper Austria's special schools were now able to transfer to the regular school system – a congratulation to Upper Austria in this respect too. Tomorrow will be celebrated: I would like to congratulate you on this. I am happy; I too will be there tomorrow in Linz. This is just an example of how successful school attempts can be, but above all how persistent they must be. So the teachers, the students, the parents we had, were very, very desperate, because in Upper Austria this was a school attempt that lasted for years and decades. That is why I also welcome the proposal on the transfer of good school tests to the regular school system. It is also a matter of talking, above all, about school attempts, which represent innovation in the education system. I believe that it is quite important that we make it possible for these schools to go into general school and not only enrich our regular education, but above all for the pupils to be enriched. I consider it an important step, but I would also like to say here that it must not be Husch-Fuch actions. When we say, Okay, it has to happen by the end of the year!, then I wish here that all school tests will be evaluated and that there is this opportunity for successful attempts – as I said – to carry out them in the regular system. Of course, such a process can take years. I also wish me a fair system with objective criteria, as the request comes from my colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ and here, especially on the subject of inclusion, on the topic of ethics teaching and on the subject of multi-stage classes, I believe that we also have partly different opinions. Yes, such school tests should also be able to be carried out and these school tests also need our regular school system. So I wish for objectivity in this respect, in this respect I would like us not only to skip the political boundaries, but also that ideology is not the top priority. One last thing to say: I would like the Ministry of Education to consider a procedure for school trials in general, so that they can not run for decades, but already go into the regular system, because, as I said, we are talking about innovation, since we are talking about years of efforts by teachers, teachers and parents and, of course, of a profit for our students – and this must, of course, be in the foreground.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25720	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25741	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! I would like to follow the statements made by my previous speaker, Mrs Cox, on the school tests. What was the situation before we decided on the education reform in 2017? – In addition, the Court of Auditors has provided interesting figures: We had a total of 5 351 school attempts before the educational reform – 5,351 school attempts! . that is why the Court of Auditors also found that the entire Austrian school system is actually an attempt at school in this incredibly large number. That is why it was also the Court of Auditors' proposal to reduce the number of school attempts, to transfer all those school attempts that have proved successful into the general school system and to eliminate all school attempts that have not proved successful. School tests, which were really great, for example in the sports or technical field, would also have ended because the formal conditions for the introduction of this model into the regular education system were not available. I am thinking, for example, of the Schigymnasium Stams, which has actually been a school attempt since 1967/68. That is why we have jointly launched an initiative by FPÖ and ÖVP to amend the School Organisation Act in order to actually receive these proven school attempts. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So we fix and reduce. Just a few facts about the Schigymnasium Stams: Since its inception in 1967/1968, 96 Olympic medals, 216 medals in World Championships and 296 medals in Junior World Championships have been achieved. This is an absolutely imposing balance sheet, which stands only as a substitute for all those schools and school experiments that have performed similar good performance. It would be a huge damage to the Austrian school system and also to the international community if, for example, one would not secure the conditions for the continuation of the Stam school experiment. With this decision, which we are taking today, we create the conditions and guarantee that this successful school effort on the amendment of the School Organisation Act to the regular school system will be adopted. What's more important? – The Court of Auditors has also noted this: We must continue to reduce the number of school tests. In 2017/2018, 1 420 school trials are still running, although the number of school trials has already been reduced by 74 percent compared to the highest level. In the future, we also need to clarify the conditions under which school attempts can take place in order to evaluate these school tests and then say: Yes, this school attempt has brought it or has not brought it. Finally, I would also like to wish all teachers and, of course, all students a nice holiday. The deserved vacations are at the doorstep. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I thank you on behalf of our group for the work done by teachers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25785	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25808	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! There are even a few more there at a later hour. We are already at the last item on the agenda, and as you say so beautifully in 2019: Zack, Zack, Zack, and the meeting is over! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Lindner.]] Now the last speakers are on it. I would like to focus briefly on a subject which unfortunately has been very little attention in the last one and a half years, namely the need to make the promotion of children even more individual. Especially in Upper Austria, there has been a very important measure that has been piloted, namely the educational compass. This provides support at this very exciting watering point between kindergarten and school. He is a pilot project of the federal government, which has been tested in Upper Austria, which is precisely about this development documentation for the optimal support of the child and a seamless transition from kindergarten to folk school. This educational compass should have been rolled out in 2018 after an evaluation phase throughout Austria, but unfortunately it did not happen. For us as SPÖ, it is very, very incomprehensible why there has actually been no initial inflammation of the covenant in this respect in the last one and a half years, since the widespread distribution would have really had a positive effect. It is a positive measure to address precisely these individual needs of children, but unfortunately it has not been further focused by the previous government. I believe that in this pilot project there is still very, very, very much potential and that rollout would have had a very positive impact on the entire federal territory. The kindergarten is – and we must not forget that – the first important educational institution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The sooner we really promote children, the better the school entry also succeeds. This early childhood education is a crucial factor in future school success. However, concrete and comprehensive measures in the area of integration – we have heard it before – have unfortunately been deleted, the whole day school expansion has been delayed, number notes, penalties for school blackness and aptitude tests for people's students have been introduced. Year after year, the OECD study “Education at a Glance” shows us a phenomenon in Austria, which is increasingly cemented and solidified by the measures mentioned above: Education is still inherited in Austria and the socio-economic status of a household is still very, very much related. That's nothing that's been broken up in the last one and a half years. However, the development of a comprehensive and truly qualitative childcare as the first educational institution and the development of day-to-day schools are essential conditions for equal opportunities in the education system, successful integration and also for the compatibility of family and work. The recognition of education as a whole, very young, is the key to a successful future: Child rearing instead of childcare! – You can only say it time and time again: Child rearing, no childcare! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress this point once again: Each year, OECD experts – we should listen to them – prove that social justice is very close with targeted promotion and equal opportunities in education – from kindergarten on the [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Vogl and Mr Wurm]] School is linked to vocational training and higher education. A restriction of the transition from kindergarten to public school through the education compass would be a real support in this regard and would clearly bring benefits. As a representative of social democracy, I can only say that we are fighting for a system of education that is permeable, which allows opportunities and really promotes talents, for education that is quiet and that is not split or segregated for everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25889	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25911	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I should like to talk about two requests that have not been really dealt with, one from the SPÖ and one from us, each on the subject of points of view. The old Federal Government has reintroduced this, abolished the alternative assessment possibilities and made it more difficult from our point of view for students and especially parents, because we are simply of the deep conviction that it is necessary to see people, students not only as a number but also their talents regarding more behind it. At that time, when the number notes were introduced in this pedagogy package – as mentioned by the old Federal Government – there was also massive criticism, especially by teachers who, on the other hand, praised massively and said that they had finally achieved over the years that they had the alternative assessment possibilities since 2016, and unfortunately the Federal Government abolished this and thus did not allow them to carry it on. The Court of Auditors also strongly criticised this at the time and also spoke of parental uncertainty, because the parents have, of course, come to know and appreciate this model over the past few years, because they have just noticed that it is more about it, they can also in many cases better read out how their children perform and what strengths and weaknesses their children have, and that they can then discuss it together with the children and promote it perfectly. In the debate on the previous item on the agenda, Mr Taschner praised the former Minister and said what a great job this was in the field of education. - I don't think that's the way it is. It is precisely this issue that the old government has made retro-policy in this regard and has not solved any problem. They have not solved any problem with the introduction of the number notes, nor can any fifth student read meaningfully. You cannot seriously believe that you are bringing about improvements in the school system with such measures, which are only plausible. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] At the end of the day, these measures – and we have already said that very clearly – are only fought on the back of the students, and it is only for you to split society further. This is something we cannot accept, and that is why we have seen the need for action in this regard and have tabled this request to fix it. We also had an expert hearing in the committee at that time. It was also very clear at that time that this variant of the number notes is a – excuse, if I say so – smarrn; it is nothing else. The expert hearing has clearly shown that, when young people get notes, they cannot distinguish from development-psychological views whether they are meant to be themselves, that is to say, to be judged personally, or whether their performance will be assessed. The expert hearing has also shown quite clearly – it was Dr. Ferdinand Eder, who said that – that this measure is absolutely not evidence-based. In addition, on the concept of non-truth in relation to an argument that the old government has made very often, that one needs noticing truth, so that one can compare the students, clearly said that this is not the case. He has said that there is no matter which is better investigated than the notary inadequacy of notes. It is therefore not possible to make it much clearer that notes are not a good assessment form, but that they need alternative models in this regard. We firmly believe that on-site professionals, educators and educators must be trusted, and that they must also give them their pedagogists freedom, that they decide on-site together with their parents what is best for the children and how best to judge them. That is why I am very sorry that the government parties have rejected our proposal in committee because I believe that this would have been a really important step in correcting things that the old government has really done badly. I find that very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25953	Mrs Kirchbaumer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e25975	Mr President. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The motion for a resolution before us essentially concerns the preservation of the best practice in school, which has been in place for many years throughout Austria. My colleague Hauser has already presented the famous Schigymnasium Stams in Tyrol, which has been an attempt at school since 1967, i.e. for 52 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] There, famous top athletes such as Benni Raich, Marlies shield, Mario Matt and many more were trained. Prior to the Education Reform 2017, existing school tests would be completed at the latest on 31 December 2017. August 2025 ends. This would have meant that the schools could start in 2019/2020. This would also be met by the Thöni Academy in Tyrol. This is a school attempt of dual training, a very successful training system for future specialists in the aluminium and metal industries. The students go to a technical gymnasium and are trained there at the same time as a skilled worker. The Thöni Academy has a very excellent reputation and the registration numbers exceed the number of students that can be accepted at all. The places are very desirable. It is a parade company in Tyrol, which shows how dual training works perfectly. The Thöni Academy is integrated into the company of the Thoni family and works perfectly with the Borg Telfs. Also many other school experiments, such as the Sport and Music Realgymnasium Salzburg or the Performance Sports Center Südstadt for Summer Top Sports, could have included the last students with 2019/2020. At this point, I would like to thank all the political groups who are in favour of my motion for a resolution. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian This shows that training in Austria is very important and will also be very important in the future. With this motion for a resolution, we are creating legal certainty for all school attempts in Austria. It is important to ensure the necessary legal changes for the acquisition of good school tests into Austrian schools and thus avoid an unsafe legal situation. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26020	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26041	Mr President. Minister! High house! There are also some reforms in the school sector, which we are discussing today and which we are also going to adopt today, and I would like to point out, because it is important, once again, that Austria has been extremely important in this field, in the education sector for the last one and a half years. We have tried to counter those failures that have unfortunately not brought much good to Austria's children in these idiosyncratic errors of recent years and decades. I have to say that if Mrs Hammerschmid and others from the left-wing group criticise the reintroduction of the numbers in the public school in this way, I feel a bit like the fear of the devil from the water of consecration. I think it is extremely important that the children learn the numbers in time in the public school – usually the children in the area also have joy with their testimony – and above all, just as it has been in the fourth class of folk school so far, the pressure in the transition to gymnasium is lower. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] What are we doing? – At the latest from the second half of the second class of folk school, number notes are required again, but the note in words, the verbal note continues parallel. The population has decided clearly in this regard: 94 percent of Austrians want to have number notes in the school, and that is why it is also right and important to introduce these number notes back there. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The children not!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the school sector itself, unfortunately, there have been very, very many failures. A large construction site was and is the polytechnic school, the 9. School level. Unfortunately, the polytechnic does not have the best reputation for God and is unable to provide the skilled workers specifically for the economy in the dual system. There are some reforms, especially as regards the curriculum, but there is also an intensification in the unpunished distance of examinations. That is, we want to upgrade this poly more or less, also strengthen and optimise it from the subject canon so that this 9. School year for those who go to the poly is not lost – this too is a very, very important decision. Of course – one has heard it from the previous speakers today – the collection of languages is also very important in the transition from kindergarten to folk school, because it does not help, as it was in the past, to close the eyes of speech deficits and hope that all of this will somehow go well in the folk school. At the end of the day, and that is, I think, the decisive: The promise that social democracy has been making over the last few years and decades, namely in the field of education, of equal opportunities for all children in Austria, has not proved true, quite the contrary : [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] The gap has grown, and we liberals will make this divide smaller and all children in Austria have a chance to have a good education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26096	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26117	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We come to the conclusion of a very intense session day, and even if these are the last two items on the agenda, education is by no means a secondary matter, but a central issue, which is always at the point of policy. It employs us at all levels – from the municipal level to the national level, the federal to the EU level – and of course concerns and employs many Austrians. We have already made an important decision today, namely those about 250 million euros for the school and non-school afternoon care of children aged six to 14 years. And I say – because Mr Holzleitner said earlier that education, child education is important – education is also taking place in the form of afternoon care, but I think it is equally important that children have the spaces to play, stay out, and that parents have the certainty that they are best cared for in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also an important measure for the benefit of parents and their children by ensuring the expansion of the care facilities and providing the best possible support to the communities that are also members of compulsory schools when it comes to costs. It is equally important, however, to adapt our schools, curriculum, training to present and future requirements. With this draft law, we are particularly concerned with polytechnic schools – a very important and essential form of training, a very important and essential type of school, which young people prepare for their later training and vocational training. In my region, in the wine district, there are seven polytechnic schools, all of which are valuable partners in the economy and the training companies. These schools help young people to properly rank their talents and skills, and they then provide guidance in this variety of professional opportunities. I am aware that we often focus on the weaknesses, but for me it is clear: We need basic skills, we need skills, and I see nothing objectionable in strengthening them also in performance groups by saying that we are eradicating these weaknesses or also promoting strengths. For me, however, it is important that polytechnic school as a school type is the place where we continue to promote strengths where we take up these and offer young people orientation where they can use these strengths in the future. One thing is clear – when we think about how it happened to us when we changed the school type, or also those who have children who are in this transition phase: It is often very difficult to know: Where Do You Want I'm going? What do I want to do in the future? Where can I bring in my strengths accordingly? This is not an easy decision, and especially the school type polytechnic school is a support: He is a support for parents and children in this context, and we want to support them all in this important task as much as possible in the future. With this law, we create framework conditions, which contain a modern, competence-oriented curriculum, we develop the orientation phase which is the polytechnic school, we also re-set the disciplines and provide specialization. I should therefore like to ask that this draft law be adopted in the sense of the further development of the polytechnic school and in the interest of the students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26175	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on the Committee's proposals separately. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Draft federal law amending the School Organisation Act, the School Teaching Act, the School Teaching Act for professionals, colleges and preparatory courses, the School Mandatory Law 1985 and the Education Documentation Act, in 648 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Hammerschmid, colleagues. First of all, I should like to vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 4, Art. 2 Z 2, 3 and 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am seeking the approval of those members of the House who give these parts of the bill an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. That is why the request has been accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give this draft law a sign at third reading. – This is the majority accepted. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 648 of the Supplements on 'Safering the transfer of good school tests to regular schools'. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, for a sign of approval. - That's the unanimity. (E 84) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 649 of the supplements. If you take note of the report, I may ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority, the report is therefore taken note of. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 26: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 650 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, the report has been taken note of. The agenda is exhausted – we are not yet. [[22:11:01]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26288	We shall now proceed to the vote on the time-limits for the sitting. I shall put to the vote the requests for time-limits to be put to the vote each time the Committee is appointed, together with the number of each application and the applicant. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by Mr Krainer, ladies and gentlemen, to the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 923/A by Mr Krainer, colleagues, a time limit of 20 years. September 2019 to be set up. If you agree to this request for a deadline, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's too little. That's the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on the equal treatment committee for reporting on Amendment No 332/A by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Another vote concerns the request made by Members Becher, ladies and gentlemen, to the Building Committee for reporting on Amendment No 15/A by Mr Becher, Mr Colleagues, a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is rejected because it is the minority. Now we are voting on a total of three requests from the applicants, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, for a period of up to 24. September 2019 to report on the following applications: Question No 324/A by Mr Stöger: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Question No 577/A by Mr Muchitsch: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Question No 900/A by Mr Loacker: If you vote in favour of this request, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to three further requests, the Environment Committee – I can still ask for your attention for the rest of the meeting; it will not last very long – a deadline until 24. September 2019 to report on the following applications: [[Unrest in the hall]] Amendment No 894/A(E) by Mrs Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Amendment 805/A(E) by Mrs Bernhard, colleagues: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That too is the minority. Rejected. Amendment 803/A(E) by Mrs Bernhard, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That too is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Members Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to report on the motion for a resolution 763/A(E) by Mr Androsch, Mr Androsch, Mr President of the Commission, on a time limit until 4. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is now the majority. That is why the request has been accepted. We shall also vote on a total of three amendments tabled by Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on Health, Safety and Consumer Protection, on a time-limit up to 4. to report on the following applications: Amendment No 566/A(E) by Mr Androsch, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Amendment No 814/A(E) by Mrs Androsch, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Same voting behaviour, so that majority adopted. Question No 860/A by Mr Androsch: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Now we are voting on a total of three requests from Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, the Health Committee, for a period of until 12. September 2019 to report on the following applications: Question No 878/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Question No 854/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber: Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we come to the motion for a resolution 877/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – Same voting behaviour: Minority. Rejected. We now come to three requests from Mrs Griss, the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, for a period of time up to 1. September 2019 to report on the following applications: Question No 840/A by Mrs Griss, Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. Amendment No 821/A(E) by Mrs Griss, ladies and gentlemen: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That's the unanimity. Accepted. Question No 841/A by Mrs Griss, Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the minority again. Rejected. We shall vote on Mr Loacker's request, the Constitutional Committee for reporting on Mr Loacker's motion for a resolution (827/A) until 1 January. September 2019 to be set up. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Schellhorn, the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy to report on the motion for a resolution (Doc. September 2019 to be set up. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also come to the request made by Mr Bernhard, the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to report on amendment 838/A by Mr Bernhard, colleagues, on a deadline until 24. September 2019 to be set up. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote of two motions tabled by Mrs Griss, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. September 2019 to report on the following applications: Question No 843/A by Mrs Griss, Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Amendment 822/A(E) by Mrs Griss, colleagues: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is also the minority. Rejected. [[22:18:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-07-02-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00084_d8e26518	I am allowed to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 926/A(E) to 969/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
