ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1412	Ladies and gentlemen! According to § 3 para. It is up to the President of the previous legislative period to open the meeting and to chair the new President or President until the election of the new President. I therefore open the first and constituent meeting of the newly elected National Council of XXVII. The legislative period, which we begin with the German anthem and the European anthem. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise from the seats. [[Those present rise from their seats.]] [[The Marc-Aurel-Quartett staged the Austrian German anthem as well as the European anthem.]] – I thank the Marc-Aurel-Quartett – all students of the Musikuniversität Wien – for the performance. [[General condolences.]] I very much welcome all the members of the House, both those who have been elected to the National Council recently, and those who are now elected as newly elected Members at the beginning of their parliamentary work. [[The representatives of the ÖVP carry turkise buttons with the label “For Austria” and a red and white-red flag, the representatives of the SPÖ red carnations, the representatives of the FPÖ a red-and-white-red loop and the representatives of the NEOS pink pencils with the label “NEOS” on the revers. Green pots with spice plants are placed in the seats of the Green MEPs.]] In particular, I am delighted about the highest proportion of women among Members – almost 40 percent – we have ever had. [[It was in favour of ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS, as well as members of the FPÖ.]] With great respect, I welcome the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is present at this meeting, and his wife. He did not allow himself to be present at the constituent meeting after a strenuous return from Japan. Welcome, President! [[General condolences.]] [[Federal President Van der Bellen rises from his place in the President's log and thanks with a bowing.]] I also welcome the presence of predecessors in the President's Office: So I greet the presidents, Dr. Heinz Fischer and Dr. Andreas Khol. – Welcome here in Parliament! [[General condolences.]] I greet respectfully the President of our second Chamber, the Federal Council, Mr Karl Bader. [[General condolences.]] I am pleased that the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Margit Krakerden, has also found way to us. Thank you, Madam President. [[General condolences.]] Last, but not least, I welcome the President of the Chamber of Commerce Dr. Harald Mahrer. [[General condolences.]] I am pleased that the Federal Chancellor, Vice Chancellor and other members of the government are present at this meeting. – Mrs. Federal Chancellor with your team, welcome! [[General condolences.]] The Constitutional Session will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from 13:15 a.m. to 5 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. I should also like to point out that, on behalf of Parliament's management, photographers and camera teams are on their way to the service of Parliament during today's National Council meeting. In addition, a 360-degree photo collection of the National Council meeting will be made for documentation purposes. The construction of the camera will take place after the election of the Third President/third President. [[12:39:27]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2019/2020
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1547	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 3. ==References====External links== 27 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on XXVII. legislative period and at the same time in accordance with Art. 28 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act at its ordinary meeting 2019/2020 for the 23. Called on October 2019. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. [[12:39:54]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1571	I can also send the House the following letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany of 2. October 2019 Communication: "I can hereby inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 1 January 1988, is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. At the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 1 October 2019, the Council of Ministers met on 1 October 2019. On 1 October 2019, the Federal Government decided to take note of the Federal Government's decision and dismissed the Federal Government in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act of the Office. At the same time, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the members of the Federal Republic of Germany, including the Federal Ministers at the Federal Chancellery of Mag. Alexander Schallenberg and Mag. Ines Stilling, with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government.” According to § 3 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall, after consulting the President-in-Office, appoint the following four Members for the provisional provision of the written business: Hermann Gahr, Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Cornelia Eckerund Wolfgang Zanger. No one's reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1624	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Mag. Elisabeth Udolf-Strobl is represented by the Federal Minister for Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice Dr. Clemens Jabloner. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1657	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1934	We are now going into the agenda. [[12:41:39]] 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1961	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Writer Michaela Steinacker will read the Angelobungsformel; then the delegates will have to do the Angelobung with the words “I vow” on behalf of the so-called writer – who will later be replaced by writer Cornelia Ecker. I should now like to ask the author, Mrs Steinacker, to read the formula for fishing and then start calling for the name. I can ask you to rise from the squares.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1994	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” By calling for a name by the writers Steinacker and Cornelia Ecker, the following honourable Members make the fishing observation with the words “I praise”: May. Hannes Amesbauer, BA; Erwin Anger ; Angela Baumgartner; Petra Bayr, MA MLS; Mag. Ruth Becher; Dr. Dagmar Belakovich; Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich; Michael Bernhard; Mag. Eva Blimlinger; Mag. Gernot Blümel, MBA; Mag. Dr. Juliane Bogner-Strauß; Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch; Dr Helmut Brandstätter; Henrike Brandstötter; Lukas Brandweiner; Hermann Brügl, MA; Doris Bures ; Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek; Martina Diesner-Wais; May. Meri Disoski; Dipl.-Ing. Karin double farmer; May. Christian Drobits; May. Thomas Drozda ; Cornelia Ecker; Rosa Ecker, MBA; Ing. Reinhold Einwallner; May. Faika El-Nagashi; May. Martin Engelberg; Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic; Franz Leonhard Eßl; Mag. Felix Eypeltauer ; Fionaher, BEd; Magistrate. Ulrike Fischer; MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs; May. Klaus Fürlinger; Dr. Susanne Principal ; Hermann Gahr; May. Wolfgang Gerstl; Leonore Geessler, BA; Mag. Ernst Gödl; Dr. Elisabeth Götze; Mag. Dr. Martin Graf; Tanja Graf; Mag. Karin Greiner; Maria Großbauer; Kira Grünberg ; Christian Hafenecker, MA; Mag. Sibylle Hamann; Luke Hammer; May. Michael Hammer; May. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid; May. Andreas Hanger; Peter Haubner; May. Gerald Hauser; Ing. Josef Hechenberger; Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek; Julia Elisabeth Herr; Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc; Hans Stefan Hintner; Ing. Norbert Hofer; Ing. Manfred Hofinger; Johann Höfinger; Eva Maria Holzleitner, BSc; Franz Hörl; Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; May. Johanna Jachs; May. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli, BA; Stefan Kaineder; Alois Kainz; May. Gerhard Kaniak; MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger; Martina Kaufmann, MMSc BA; Dietmar Keck; Herbert Kickl; Rebecca Kirchbaumer; Klaus Köchl; Mag. Werner Kogler; Maximilian Köllner, MA; Andreas Kollross; Karlheinz Kopf; Elisabeth Köstinger; Mag. Markus Koza; Kai Jan Krainer; Dr Stephanie Krisper; Katharina Kucharovich; Philip Kucher; Dr Gudrun Kugler; Andreas Kühberger; Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre; May. Andrea Kuntzl; Sebastian Kurz ; Robert Laimer; Christian Lausch; May. Jörg Leichtfried, Maximilian Lercher; Ing. Klaus Lindinger, BSc; Ing. Martin Litzschauer; May. Gerald Loacker; Dr. Reinhold Lopatka ; Karl Mahrer, BA; Nico Marchetti; Dr. Johannes Margreiter; Dr. Christoph Matznetter; Sigrid Maurer, BA; Mag. Beate Meinl-Risinger, MES; Alexander Melchior; Andreas Minnich; Dr. Josef Moser; Josef Muchitsch; Edith Mühlberghuber ; Karl Nehammer, MSc; Barbara Neßler; Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Niss, MBA; Mag. Verena Nussbaum ; Gabriel Obernosterer; Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner; May. Friedrich Ofenauer; Andreas Ottenschlager ; Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller; Claudia Plasolm; Laurenz Pöttinger; Nikolaus Prinz ; May. Christian Ragger; Walter Rauch; Ing. May. Volker Tireberger; Michel Reimon, MBA; Carina Reiter; Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc; Bedrana Ribo, MA; Christian Ries; Dr. Astrid Rössler ; MMMag. Gertraud Salzmann; Ralph Schallmeiner; May. Corinna Scharzenberger; Sabine Schatz; Josef Schellhorn; Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA; Mag. Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler; Karl Schmidhofer; Peter Schmiedlechner; Johannes Juijdenschlager; Joachim Schnabel; Michael Schnedlitz; Dr Margarete Schramböck; May. Philipp Schrangl; Alois Schroll; Gabriela Schwarz; May. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA; Michael Seemayer; Yannick Shetty; Norbert Sieber; Rudolf Silvan; Johann Singer; Mag. Maria Smodics-Neumann; May. Wolfgang Sobotka; Christoph Stark; May. Harald Stefan; Petra Steger; May. Michaela Steinacker; Dr. Christian Stocker; Alois Stäger, Diplômé; David Stögmüller; Pia Philippa Strache; Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser ; May. Nina Tomaselli; MMag. Dr. Agnes Totter, BEd; Dr. Harald Tür ; Ing. Markus Vogl; Dipl.-Ing. Olga Voglauwer; Petra front swinger ; Ing. Johann Weber; Hermann Weratschnig, MBA MSc; Petra Wimmer; Rainer Wimmer; August Woeinger; Peter Worm ; May. Selma Yildirim; Nurten Yılmaz ; Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M.Use custom fonts; Wolfgang Zanger; Christoph Zarits; Bettina Zopf; Süleyman Zorba.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3296	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have committed yourself with your vow to law-reliance and conscientious exercise of your function. I may ask you to do so. Your responsible parliamentary work in the service of our Republic wishes the best success. The National Council is thus constituted. [[General condolences.]] [[12:54:15]] 2. Point Election of the President/President, Second President/Second President and Third President/Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3335	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There are written constituencies, which I may announce: The proposal for the President of the National Council is put to Member Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka. On the election of the Second President, there is a motion for a resolution by Mr Doris Bures. For the election of the Third President, there are two constituency proposals: the proposal of the parliamentary club, which is to be made on behalf of Members, Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer and the Green Club's proposal to honourable Member Mag. Eva Blimlinger. In agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose to hold a debate on this item on the agenda and ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to give a sign of this by raising their seats. – This is unanimously accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3408	According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a block-time limit of 23 minutes per club is proposed for the debate, with a maximum of four speakers per club speaking. This is done according to the strength of the club. Furthermore, for this debate, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign in this regard, again by raising the seats. – This too is unanimously adopted. We are now going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Sebastian Kurz is speaking on the floor. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3450	Mr President, Mr Sobotka! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. But especially dear Austrians! It is a pleasure and honour to be able to speak to you today as a representative of the People's Party, at this constituent meeting, and I would like to begin with a great deal of thanks to all Austrians, who met on 29 October. In September the European Council took part in the national elections, which gave its voice to the We have strengthened democracy and decided what Parliament's composition should look like over the next five years. This choice has, like any choice, created a new political landscape. The election has shaped and changed the political landscape. Parliament – it has already been mentioned – has become more female and younger. Some Members have been expelled and new faces have been added. The party landscape has changed: The JETZT list has not succeeded in re-entry, the Greens have not only made the re-entry this time, they are as strong as they have never been here, and we can congratulate them warmly. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all the Members who have shaped Parliament, who have served the Republic and have not recovered this time. They are Members of Parliament, such as Anneliese Kitzmüller, Josef Lettenbichler, Irmgard Griss and many others who have served this Parliament for a very long time. I believe that all of them today deserve our thanks across party borders. [[General condolences.]] But I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate all the Members who have been re-elected and especially those who have been elected to Parliament for the first time. – Good for the job, warm congratulations. We look forward to working together on the part of the People's Party. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] The first responsible task for our Members today is the election of the Presidents of Parliament. We will follow the wishes of the House and respect and support the proposals of the three strongest parties. I may be able to start with the proposal from the People's Party. Little surprising, we unanimously nominated Wolfgang Sobotka yesterday. Anyone who knows him will share my opinion that he is an extremely experienced politician, that he is a particularly passionate politician. If you know him personally, you can also say that he is also a very funny person. But above all, he is also one: He is a statesman who, I believe, has convinced by his work and who in his talents and talents is versatile as hardly anyone is. Dear Wolfgang, I can thank you for your good cooperation. You have not only the confidence of the People's Party, but, as I believe, the support of many Members here in the House. I may ask you all, on behalf of the People's Party, to comply with our proposal and to elect Wolfgang Sobotka as President of Parliament. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We will support the proposal of Social Democracy on Doris Bures. Doris Bureshat not only has many years of government but also Parliament's experience and has long served the House as President and second President, so we can make the promise that we will support this proposal and support Mr Doris Bures in the election as the Second President. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] Of course, we also support the proposal of the Freedom Party. Norbert Hofer has not only many years of experience here in Parliament, we have also worked well together in the past government. It was always a trusting cooperation and a good cooperation. – We support self- understand this proposal and the People's Party will elect you Third President. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I think for all of us the last months have been very turbulent months. It was intense months, as is the case in election times. I think that this time, however, it was partly a very dirty election campaign, which was always marked by facets, which in our society should actually have no place in our country at all. I think all these facets and the shadows of politics are damaging to politics, reducing confidence in politics and, in fact, being a danger to democracy. In so doing, I think we should all help to see this new legislative period as a new opportunity – as an opportunity for a new start in dealing with each other. Today, at the initiative of Peter Schipka, the Secretary-General of the Austrian Bishops' Conference, a common service began with which Members of all political groups were present. Perhaps this was not just a good start in today's day, but in the legislative period itself. I believe we are all called on to counter it, we are all called on to ensure that the political discourse is stopped in Austria, and we are all called upon to deal respectfully with each other despite different opinions and approaches. We want to make a contribution on the part of the People's Party, and I think we all have a great responsibility here. However, the Austrians would thank us if the politicians treated each other respectfully, just as most citizens do on their own every day in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since we as the People's Party have been strengthened in this election, which is the strongest force in Parliament, the Federal President has given us a government education mandate. Therefore, we are currently carrying out intensive exploratory discussions, hoping that we will soon be able to enter into government negotiations in order to put a stable and effective government on our feet, which will then also have the power to provide our country with the best possible opportunity in the event that we are experiencing economic difficulties around us, so that it will not hit us with full hardness – hopefully – and a government that also has the power to act decisively if there are again challenges in the area of migration, which, if one looks into Turkey and Syria, could soon grow larger again, and of course, will address future topics such as the fight against climate change, in order to make an international superfluous contribution from the Republic of Austria. All of this and much more will work for us as a future Parliament, but also as a future government. I hope that we will succeed in living here a good exchange and ensuring the best possible cooperation. As a People's Party, we cannot rule with all parties, but what we definitely want is to cooperate respectfully with all; only so, I believe, can we all live up to our claim and serve our country, the Republic of Austria, and, above all, the Austrians, and that, I believe, should be our goal. – Thank you very much and for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3581	Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3607	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! The Austrian Parliament is starting today with its work for the next five years – I hope it will be five years – and it should be a fresh start for all of us, not only for the new Members here in the House, to whom I also speak and whom I would like to congratulate on this important first day in this wonderful Parliament. It has already been mentioned that we all have a long election campaign behind us, in which we have advertised for our content out of conviction and passion. Not only in the election campaign, but also in addition, there are different positions of the different political groups, the parties; and it is good and right that we also represent our positions with passion and with all the emphasis that we debate, so to speak, the better argument. This is living democracy, which has an important place here in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It was the French reconnaissance Voltaire who once said: “I do not share your opinion, but I would give my life for you to express it.” – Yes, let other opinions apply, respect, that is the essence of democracy, and, if you so wish, the Chamber of Hearts of Democracy is this House, is Parliament. It is the central place of a fair political debate. What makes a good political debate outstanding? . It is characterized by the fact that we debate, discuss and talk hard in the matter, but always appreciative, respectful in tone, without intervening with each other. I would like to see this culture of debate with us in Parliament, which is respected. I can assure you, in any case, that social democracy will make its contribution to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition to respectful handling, we have another goal – a common one that we share here – namely to master the great challenges of our time. We were all elected here for this. For us Social Democrats, social justice is clearly at the centre of our thinking, our decisions and our actions. It's about opportunities people get in their lives, just like I got them as a daughter of a young single parent and how many of us got them here in the high house and in Austria. It is a policy that creates opportunities to open the doors, opens the opportunities to go ways of life as you want to go, self-determined and strong, which allows you to take up the dream profession. That is exactly what I want for Austria, and that is what I expect from this Parliament and from this House: to give all people the opportunity to do their job, regardless of their origin, regardless of their gender. We do not care that, as we were able to read in the newspaper a few days ago, a recent study has shown that the chances of social rise in Austria have fallen. Only 15 percent – 15 percent!, that's very low – the children from low-income families make it up. Professional opportunities and assets therefore depend heavily on the ancestors. Social rise appears to be more difficult, poverty is inherited. More than 300 000 children, ladies and gentlemen, are at risk of poverty. It costs these children quality of life, it costs them future prospects, it costs them strength, it costs them their own health, and that costs us as a country, as a social security future opportunities. It must therefore be our common responsibility in Parliament to ensure that we do not stand back in five years and call exactly the same number of vulnerable children that we do not complain about this number again and say: We need to change that! – No, we have to do it now, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Let us, therefore, share the fight with child poverty! With a comprehensive expansion of day-to-day childcare facilities, high-quality schools, let us finally create fair educational opportunities! If we do this not only in the cities, not only in Vienna, we can do it all over Austria! Let us give people the security that they can rely on us and on politics! At the end of the legislative period, I would like to say with you: We have done our job well, we have increased the chances of the Austrians to social rise! We want people to be able to look to their future with confidence and hope not only at the end of the legislative period, but already in a few weeks or months. In order to achieve these objectives together, it will be necessary to strengthen the dialogue – the dialogue that has suffered so much in recent months and years – also in this House; the dialogue between government and Parliament; the dialogue between government and civil society; the dialogue between government and social partners. President Van der Bellen gave us an important message a few months ago; They all know her, he said, "It's not enough, in a democracy, if you talk to the others only if you just need them. That’s what happens in the course of time.” – Yes, it is revenged by the loss of trust. But trust is the basis for working well with each other, and thus also to achieve success. Let us take the words of our President seriously: dialogue instead of driving; constructive discussion instead of verbal intervention; Take proposals seriously, even if they come from other political groups, think about it, listen to it and discuss it – only then will we succeed in mastering the challenges successfully. This also concerns the climate crisis – and that was also addressed. Many joint efforts will need to be made so that we can meet this great challenge – for our country and for the Austrians. At the end of my speech, I would also like to address the current election: One that stands like no other in politics for the culture of mutual and consensus, of dialogue, is Doris Bures. Its type of presidency here in this House is highly appreciated across party borders. Not only here in plenary, but also in the examination committees, it has demonstrated the quality of its presidency. It shows that Parliament is a place of listening, of dialogue, and that it is a place where solutions can not only be found, but can also be found. For all these reasons and because I am deeply convinced of her integrity, of her professionalism, we propose her today as the Second National Council President. I would ask you to support our proposal. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] I would also like to tell you that, as you have said, Mr Klubobmann, we too, as regards the election of the National Council Presidency, will be guided by the use of the House of the past few years and decades. Ladies and gentlemen, over the next few years we are working consistently with our convictions for the future of our country! Let's bring the work of Parliament on the point: Parliament – a carer of opportunity; yes, for an Austria of opportunities, security, confidence and hope for a good future! Good cooperation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3707	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3729	Mr President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! High house! The elections at the end of September this year have remixed the maps in the political landscape in Austria. The Sovereign has spoken, and this Sovereign, as we all know, is always right. The conditions of power have changed, and what we are doing today in this constituent session is to set the first substantial movements on the basis of this new structure of power. I think that, of course, each of us with good intentions goes into this new parliamentary section. I wish to all of us that we have come through with these good intentions, which are certainly to a large extent also with the overcoming of graves that have been deeply torn up in a very, very deep election campaign – that is, we can say – and that they have a durability as long as possible. Parliamentaryism, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, it means intense discussions. Parliamentaryism means a hearty and emotional discussion of the better arguments, ideas and concepts. Parliamentaryism also means the hard ringing between opposition and government interests. With all the hardships of the struggle, with all the joy and passion for the political discourse and the necessary political conflict, however, with all the need for the diversity of positions, one must stand firm – and I attach special value to it; I look into the ranks of the re-entered Green Group – that no one has the right to increase – I almost say – in a pseudomoral way, above the others to be directly or indirectly the predicament to be democrat. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the democratic spectrum is a very broad one – starting from the very left over the middle to the right parties. However, those who make the mistake of confusing or comparing right with right-wing extremes and thus operate a form of evasion have, in my view, not understood these basic rules of democracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So much, ladies and gentlemen, to the like, but we should also talk about what is going on here: I think we all share the view that Austria is facing major challenges and that these major challenges have not lessened in recent weeks. We do not know when our country will have a government again, a government of which one can rightly say that it is making a claim to design. That is why, I think, Parliament is all the more responsible for our home country at this stage. It is precisely now also the task of Parliament to define the line to strike in terms of content and not to make the mistake of falling into a kind of sleeping car mode or a kind of lethargy. Now, as a parliamentarian, we have the opportunity to explain to the Austrian population that we are an active, committed and responsible person. This is the first time that the European Parliament has Therefore, at the beginning, at this first meeting, we have a large number of requests for content. One has to deal with current developments, such as the need to deny ISIS criminals citizenship from our point of view. I believe that this is the right access and that we should not think about how to bring these people who are ticking time bombs back to Austria. The second area is that we want to set up a package of measures to penalise Turkey, which, in our view, is still quite unjustly a candidate for membership of the European Union. However, it is also a question of other requests for reforms which have been overdue for a long, long time from our liberal point of view; I am thinking, for example, of the reform of Austrian broadcasting, including the abolition of fees. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is a third component of content, namely a package of applications on the subject of freedom and self-determination. That's where we talk about protecting young people by establishing a headwear ban up to the age of 14. Year of life in schools, as well as the introduction of genuine direct democracy, which will enable the population not only to make a delicate contribution, but to make real decisions. This is our liberal contribution to the fact that at this stage we are also in a parliamentary position. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The challenges faced by Austria in large as in small areas are varied, and in some ways they are likely to be considered dramatic. We will all have a lot to do with it as well as a lot of strength and energy to invest to work out a good presence and security for our home country day after day, to preserve it and to defend it where it is necessary. Let's not make the mistake of believing that the great wave of migration is already broken, because the opposite is true! Think of the dark clouds of an economic crisis coming up! The German economic engine is stuttering, and we know that this will be accompanied by negative effects in the areas of the labour market and public debt, and that all of this will not be without influence on a fragile monetary system. Of course, all of us will also have to deal with climate change – of course! But I think – and this will be our contribution – that it needs solutions in this area, with which we do not pour out the child with the bath, but actually express our sense of responsibility with an eye. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the National Council Bureau is also elected. As a Freedom Party, we will adhere to the best democratic and parliamentary practices and therefore support the candidates of ÖVP and SPÖ accordingly, giving them our consent. We've always kept it that way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a declaration of love, but it is not a empty political ritual, as some try to present it. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] It's something else: In fact, it is the first expression of the living recognition of the will of voters, which occurred at the election on 29 October. It was expressed in September, which is being carried out here in this House. There's something else: It is also a commitment to the personal autonomy of any party in this house. That means nothing but that any party – and only it itself – determines who in this democratic structure is proposed for which position from Parliament and government. Ladies and gentlemen! Norbert Hofer is the liberal candidate for the Third President of the National Council. For those who have been in the house for a long time, he is not an unknown: He moved in here in 2006, i.e. an experienced parliamentarian. In the years from 2013 to 2017, he was the third President of the National Council, and I think it is not an exaggeration if I say that he has gained great reputation and a high degree of trust through his leadership over all camps. His Presidency has always been objective and impartial. He has carried out this office impeccablely and has also made a great contribution to the much strengthened dignity of this House through his type of office, through the wisdom he has shown in doing so. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why it is my inner need to turn again at the end of my remarks to the newly withdrawn Green Group, which has decided to boycott Norbert Hofer today: You know that you are boycotting a mandater who has not been able to convince a long time ago in a personal election – I am talking about the Federal Presidential election – 2.1 million and a few more voters. This is, I believe, a very, very impressive vote that no other representative in this House – and I think there is no one in the past – can look back on. I do not know if this is the meaning of the exercise that the Greens are doing with this candidate; it shows me and also those who have observed this development in the last few hours, but that unfortunately, hold behind the facade of these hips – one would like to say almost: clean – eco-party, behind this putty coat, along with the accompanying cardboard boards – Mr. Klubobmann Kogler has brought one again – in fact stands a hard left-left attitude, which always runs the risk of tilting into a totalitarian direction. [[on a next to the seat of Abg. Kogler table standing on the ground:]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I am saying this because it is obvious to everyone. It also shows – and this is also important to me – that your democratic world view and your interpretation of respect and recognition end exactly where your left ideology has its limits. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Faith You're telling me: This is a very, very limited horizon you have! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The whole thing, however, also has something good, Mr Kogler, because your present-day boycott of the person Norbert Hofer is also an educational and valuable contribution to ideological self-decontamination, and this is happening at the earliest possible time here in Parliament. In a way, one must also be grateful for this. I think rethinking is pointless – there are enough experiences in this regard. All the other groups I am seeking support for Norbert Hofer. He was an impeccable President of the National Council, and he will be an impeccable President of the National Council who will do all he can to this House and this Republic. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3877	Mr Klubobmann Werner Kogler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3898	I would like to thank the honourable Member as well as Klubobmann Sebastian Kurz, who has expressly referred to it, for the emphatically. Catch here in the house. He was from some more or less cordial; I heard it, that's okay. That's what I'm saying, thank you. Now I come to my first impressions, which go back to the election movement or the pre-electional election, and to the events that made it necessary to elect a new National Council. It was not only a colossal failure of the old federal government, which is precisely imploded in this remarkable way, there have also been many other important things – more important, as I mean. Two days before this said National Council election, on a Friday in September, there has been the greatest demonstration of human history for the survival conditions on this planet. We don't care. We have interpreted the outcome on the election evening a little bit – and we do not make it easy – that we should make a contribution here in the Austrian National Council, in Parliament, at all places in the Republic where greens are allowed to work – and that is not so few at all. It is therefore not easy to meet these expectations and hopes in reality, but we will face up to this task. If someone were to object now – if this were not the constituent session today, someone would intervene; an aspirant from the ranks of the liberals would already report for such an intermediate call –: Yes, what do we want to do in this little Austria?, so I wouldn't reject it. I'd be grateful to hear the call, because it's a fine vista. But I would like to turn a quote that will probably become even more famous in the history: The Republic of Austria is never too small to make a change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We intend to make a contribution to this fundamental survival issue from here. Austria will be important in Europe, hopefully becoming more important again, and Europe needs to become global climate protection clocks, that is undisputed – with all economic opportunities. We have always tried to make this happen in the work of persuasion; perhaps we can convince you even more over the months and years here. Now I do not want to mention that this is, of course, a special day for the Greens, a historic day, because we, as a group, have left this House, but earlier – perhaps thanks to the FPÖ Group – some would say cynically; I did not have that before – and at least more strongly returned to the National Council than many expected and as I expected. – You would have wondered if I hadn't made any reference to it. On this occasion I would like to thank once again all those who welcomed us today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think I remember that there were also some here in the house who expressed two years ago with sincere regret that the Greens lacked the party spectrum. – All who have sincerely meant it, a sincere thanks back! All the others who didn't mean it so sincerely, I can only call: No problem, we're on a peaceful mission! [[Sociability and condolences with the greens as well as acclaim of the abg. Sir.]] But what are we for? – Again back to the main topic: If it is true that we are the last generation to do something about the devastating climate crisis, then we will do something. That's quite right. I mean, however, because the economy is always apostrophic, we should see what opportunities this involves. We will bring a lot together, especially in Austria, especially in Europe, but – Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has referred to it – it is very important that this be done with Social integration happens. In the election movement, many and now all parties have acknowledged that something has to be done against the climate crisis, but that, if there is a need for a turnaround – and the need leads to a turnaround – should also happen in such a way that no one is left behind in this necessary process. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is what we see, and this leads me directly to the issue of child poverty, which was gratefully mentioned here. This is a heart attack of the Greens and of me personally. We want to make a contribution. Austria is such a successful country – and therefore also a rich country – that we should do more together. We will continue to do so. – You already remember: We are trying to bring into the house what we have promised in the election movement, and that is at least the best democratic intention. On the transparency issues raised: I know that the NEOS have done a lot during the two years that we were not there. – I am counting on you to continue to fight in this respect, but we will try to make our contribution as well. In fact, I am only saying this because the answer to the question of whether something like a change in political culture can succeed is linked. A lot of confidence in politics has been lost, not just because of the events in the election campaign. In the election campaign we have to endure a lot, as we are used to, but the events that led at all to the election campaign – in the end all the parties represented here in the house – have, I think, reduced confidence in politics rather. Austria has also not given a good picture in Europe. As far as Europe is concerned, I am surprised that this has not yet been addressed so much today, I would like to remind you that we are just before the 30th century. Anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. It has always been an important topic for the Greens and an important task to keep in mind the international and European dimensions – not only in the field of climate protection, but in all our actions and actions. There's a lot to do here. Let's see what happens in the Brexit when irrantious companions prevail with the help of arsonism to the sorcerers! We can take a look at the chaos. Does anyone need it? - No, I don't. That is why it is good to try to ensure that a strengthened Austria works in a strong Europe. However, we must also contribute to our image, not only in the fields of policy – economic policy, environmental policy – but also in credibility and image issues, and we can still re-adjust them. I invite you all to do so, and we also want to make our contribution. With all the difference – we probably want to change more in the European Union than most here in the house – we see many criticisms and a lot of need for change –: It makes no sense to hack around on the European idea in this way. Europe is to become strong by common ground and not weakened by division. That's our mission. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to remember this for Austria – if the Federal Presidency election campaign has already been addressed today – that the 2016 election debate has at least won a candidate who has said the following: Those who love their home don't split them. I experience that in Munich, in Berlin, in Helsinki, in Amsterdam, in Strasbourg and in Brussels. It's coming. It's coming! [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Agg. Fireplaces.]] You can have different home terms, yes, thank God! There are different places of longing, the diversity may also make us – but we should not want to split. On this occasion I take a look at what the Greens have been talking about: We know the importance of Uzancen in parliamentary democracy – of course. However, if you remember, it has become Usance that the Greens usually have a candidate or a candidate for the office of the Third National Council President. If we look at where that comes from, I can explain it to you: Yes, the uses are correct and important, but there are also always border areas that are constantly being crossed. It is true that in recent years in the institutions of the Republic in the evening it has been properly heard how you have breathed through once there has been a day without a single case – but unfortunately the days without individual cases have become ever more rare. We should also remember that we offer an alternative for all those here who want to choose another person. Of course, I must not hide that Eva Blimlinger is a Member and candidate who works with the best sense of history for a modern future. That's our motive – and it's an offer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Cornelia Ecker.]] Yes, it was and are not we who want to forbid the identities; but there is a party that has the greatest effort – it may also make it hard – to distinguish itself from them. But if it is true that the identities are to be banned and that a party, which is clear in practice that it has difficulties in demarcation, proposes a party chairman for this office, then it is not so surprising if alternatives are sought. That's it – no more, but no less. Take it as an offer! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: Of course, I am speaking out of our conviction, but we already believe that the green principles were never so relevant in history because of developments in environmental issues. They are not decisive and not alone determining, but it has never been as relevant as today to want a solidarity society of free people, especially in an intact environment – globally and locally. That's what we want to convince you about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are convinced that we want to go to you, the hand is stretched out. We certainly did not care for the truth, we do not have a single right to represent, but that is our motive, and I think we have been elected to do so again. That is why the composition of this National Council is as it is, and we want to work together to the best of our knowledge and conscience. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4056	I can kindly ask the ladies and gentlemen at the gallery not to express any condolences or misdemeanors. Thank you for your understanding. Mrs Klubobfrau Beate Meinl-Reisinger has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4080	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Dear Austrians! I would like to join with what has already been said by previous speakers: A warm thank you to all those who 29.9. of their right to vote and with it politics in Austria so actively determined in the next few years! Thank you very much for actually taking such an active part! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Congratulations also from me, from our side to all parties, that they have survived the election campaign, and to all colleagues who have made the re-entry or the re-entry – a warm welcome to all new Members! Of course I do not want to congratulate the winners of the election, especially the ÖVP and the Greens, who have celebrated the biggest comeback since Lazarus. Congratulations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And we are also very pleased about our strengthened position in this new National Council: 50 percent more Members, seven new Members will be working here. Much has already been said about the fact that this Parliament should really be the place of cooperation, of exchange, of dialogue, of debate in the best sense. It seems very important to me to refer to it again today. Why? – We have experienced an election campaign that has shown quite an immeasurable degree of polarization, a conscious search for polarization – that is, to find one’s own identity, especially in the demarcation towards the other and to make it the determining factor in the election debate. This is a mechanic known to be more popular and demagogic than to those factions that always strive for differentiated positions. It is not completely unknown here in the House that one sometimes deliberately seeks polarization in the debate. But I believe – if a new style and the role of the people's representation have already been conjured – that it is important to say, right now and here again, that it is our task to work for Austria – for the Austrians. We have the damn responsibility to put the binding before the separation, and this should lead us over the next few months and years. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] This also brings me to the issue of the election of the National Council Presidents: You know, it's a living practice with us – it doesn't make it a use of Parliament, dear Werner Kogler; even if Niki Scherak is constantly 5 minutes late, it's not yet a use of the House – so it's a living practice with us – one could say it's tradition, what a new party as we are, anyway it's a remarkable expression – that we deliberately release the vote in the election of the Presidents of the National Council and – we don't have it otherwise – we don't live a club force. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the NEOS and the Agg. Hofer]] That has already been the case in the past. That means you're not gonna be surprised that we're going to vote differently. But two things are completely out of question for us. First: We're very sure we're holding on to these uses, because they make sense. In particular, they make sense that they give us the guarantee that, for example, not two parties, who seek to cooperate immediately after a election, divide these three positions between each other or even play them in a single party. A use makes sense, and that is why we stick to it. Secondly, and I would like to say this very clearly, because in the past – and no matter what group the proposals have come up with – we have always handled and protested in such a way when people have been nominated, the had no experience in parliamentarianism: Dear Greens! I appreciate Mrs Blimlinger as an experienced woman in many other areas, including discussions, very much – but not any experience in parliamentarianism? Imagine, it was about another function or position in this Republic in politics and administration: How big would the protest be if a person was nominated who did not have the sufficient qualification and experience in this area – not yet, but not at the moment? We elect representatives from among us – the Presidents, the Bureau – and it is quite clear that experience plays an essential role there too. I hope the Greens do not see this as a conscious disregard for parliamentaryism in itself, because I do not want to interpret it as such. However, it is quite clear from our side that there is no support for this electoral proposal, although our group will vote differently. I've already said it: I'm going to support Norbert Hofer. I have seen him as very decent national council presidents, who made this over-party. – As a party observer, you have to master a spatula, a large spatula, and we will measure you by whether you know how to master this spatula. [[towards Abg. Hofer]] Living parliamentaryism is something very important. Before the election we heard in many speeches that it is so great to experience this active Parliament and the free play of the forces. We have always warned against this and have said that an election day can sometimes lead to less of the country's well-being than the well-being of some constituency clients – and thus of its own party – in the foreground. However, I fully agree with my previous speakers, who have emphasized this, that we, as a self-confident Parliament, have no reason at all to wait for a new government to stand. Very many of the issues we have to deal with are urgent and pressing: One issue that we discussed in the election campaign from A to Z, from early to evening, is transparency and control. This is also a question of party finance, and I am also attending all the top candidates to what they have said. Accordingly, we are bringing in NEOS initiatives today, which are actually completely clear and obvious, above all those concerning the audit and audit competence of the Court of Auditors, which we very much support. However, it is also about control and transparency to a much greater extent. We were elected to this National Council in 2013 and I had the honourful task of submitting a request as the first representative of NEOS. At the time, it was an initiative proposal for an information freedom law. One of our first-hour contestants weathered yesterday: The same procedure as every year, Darling!, and I answered: Yeah, try, fail, try harder! Politics is drilling thick boards, but, ladies and gentlemen, we arrived in 2019: Official secrecy is part of the Constitution and a right of citizens to full access to information is enshrined in it. I would like the Austrians to finally be able to look at politics and administration and thus become the controllers of the powerful themselves. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Other areas are also very urgent and urgent: education. Especially when we see that the rise opportunities are getting lower, it must be highest Priority should be given to: No child left behind! This applies from childhood to life-long learning to adult education, because we know that in such a volatile world that changes so quickly, this is a very essential issue. However, a key issue is also discharge, because we NEOS want people to be able to build up something. We are concerned about the economic development of the future. It is therefore essential to clarify and promote the link between environmental protection, climate protection and smart economic policies. Ladies and gentlemen! We have pencils as symbols here today – pencils as symbols for us to want to sharpen them and get to work, but also, of course, as symbols that we want to continue to put education on top of everything and always think of our children and grandchildren the day after tomorrow. [[on the plug on their revers significant]] In the next few months and years, let us go together towards freedom, fairness and progress! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4203	The representative of the Klubobmann representative, August Wöginger, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4228	Mr President. Mr President! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin with the Austrians, who took place on 29 October. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for taking part in the National Council election on September. But above all I would like to say thank you, as a member of the People's Party, for choosing us that they have equipped us with a great vote of confidence. I would also like to thank all those who have gone for us, our officials and all those who have been involved on the election day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I should like to congratulate all those who have been praised here today. The day of fishing, the constituent session, is always a very special experience, especially for those who are praised for the first time. Today there are 53 new mandates in the number, most of them from the Greens, but also from my group there are 12. – If I may say so: Enjoy this day! It's a very special experience. As someone who has been here for 17 years, I say: It is a very wonderful task to be Members of this beautiful Parliament. It's a great job. – Enjoy today especially! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, we should also understand these elections as an opportunity for a new beginning. We have a very dirty election fight behind us. I think it is necessary to really put common ground in the foreground. This can only be done by us sitting here – five political groups, the last of which were elected to this House. We should be open to each other. We should explore the commons we have and also try to implement them politically for the Austrians, for this is what the Austrians have to say. In September, he also expressed his views. Finally, they want us to work for the people and for our beautiful country Austria. This cannot work if one puts the separation in the foreground here, so to speak, but it can only work if one loses the commons and brings them into practice for the people of our country. That's how we understand politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a few words about the election of the three Presidents. We nominated Wolfgang Sobotka in the People's Party Club yesterday. Wolfgang Sobotka has proven in the last two years that he is doing this office in an excellent way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He is the One seeking compensation. He is the one who, in the second, also convenes special presidential conferences to determine how to act together – even in the event of difficult questions. He has acted with caution and expertise, thereby also fulfilling the dignity of this House and this important office. That is why we propose Wolfgang Sobotka. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, he has been in politics almost since his childhood: He was mayor of Waidhofen at the Ybbs, he was 18 years in the state government and also head of state in Lower Austria, he was Minister of the Interior, and he has been President of the National Council for two years now. [[Abg. Light peace: That's yes...!]] And he's also a musician! He is a conductor at the Waidhofner Chamber Orchestra, and conducting is a favourable ability for the National Council President. – Dear Wolfgang, we definitely support you! I would also ask the other political groups to vote in favour of the President of the National Council Wolfgang Sobotka. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Musaic people are well known to be equalizing people, and this is important for this office. [[Cheerfulness to representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (delighted) Exactly!]] Now to the second President, Mr Doris Bures Yes, we have always worked together correctly, professionally and well. Madam President, we appreciate Her work in recent years as National Council President and also as Second President; They were also always well sung as a minister to the House. We will therefore also support you in the election of the Second President. We also support colleagues Norbert Hofer, with whom I have been associated for many years personally. – You were already the third National Council President, you should definitely be back. I thank you for the last two years in which we have been able to work more intensively – in a very successful federal government. Dear Norbert, you definitely have the support of the People's Party! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return once again to the fact that we are out of common. We are facing great challenges. We have an economic growth that is more down than upward. We're still fine, thank God! At the end of the day, we have a huge challenge to deal with climate change, and there are also many social issues that require a solution. That is why I think it is necessary for us to hold it right now at the beginning of a legislative period – and may we hold it for five years! – really put the joint before the dividing, also strengthen the political power of the middle. What the voters have made quite clear is a strengthening of the political centre, and we also need this political centre in order to be able to work together for the people of our country. – This is my appeal at the beginning of this legislative period to you, to all of you. I wish all of us a pleasant, good cooperation in the sense of the Austrian people, in the sense of our wonderful Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4341	Mr Klubobmann's representative, Mr Leichtfried, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4363	Mr President. Mr President! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! When I got in here today, a journalist asked me: Mr. Leichtfried, are you really excited because now is the fishing point? – I answered: Yeah, well, because it's a moving moment to be praised in this high house! It is a moving moment, due to a choice of which millions of Austrians have participated, to be assigned to work for this country. I must say that I warmly congratulate all those who have now been elected to this Parliament again or again. It is a great task, ladies and gentlemen, that we have together in front of us. One of the first tasks is to elect a Bureau for this House. We are all aware that the Presidents of this House have a huge responsibility for the functionality, for the work here and for the success of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand, in all respect, that I have before all the candidates, especially in the face of the intrusive nature of the current President, that I would like to concentrate on the candidate for social democracy in my speech. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] Dear Doris Bures, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for your presidency, for how you understood this office, for your fairness, for your high objectivity, which we have sometimes suffered, and for your materiality. Doris, that's the way President goes – thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, you can see that we have full confidence in and, of course, support Doris Buresal's President. I would ask you to support this proposal, too, because, ladies and gentlemen, this objectivity, this objectivity we expect from all candidates. I expect things that have not happened in the past that have happened in the last two years. I would also like to address that. As we have spoken today about Uzancen in connection with this election: It's about keeping Usancen even if they don't fit you if they don't do what you want right now. Uses are there to always be observed, regardless of whether it is useful or not, ladies and gentlemen. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] It is also a question of giving this House respect for this Parliament, which is also the task of Presidents. It is primarily a question of feeling, not as a member of a government, but as a representative or representative of the Members of this House. This is a task that Presidents have absolutely taken on board, no matter what government there is, it is the commitment to this parliamentary democracy, the commitment for Austria, the commitment to our country, ladies and gentlemen. After the National Council election, we are not only politically facing a new beginning – it has changed a lot – but hopefully we are also facing a new beginning in dealing with each other. It is about ensuring that the culture of conversation in this House becomes another, but above all it is about finally working on it again. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this: Who knows when there will be a new government?, and that is why it is also about moving things for our country. We have also put in place some really important applications concerning climate protection, closing the gender paygap, fighting against child poverty. These are things that are essential that need to be implemented quickly. My appeal to everyone here at the end: Let us continue to use this time of free play of forces to make the lives of people in Austria better! At work, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4445	Mrs Belakovich has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4466	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home in front of the screens! It is today the first meeting in a new legislative period, and we have heard a lot from many previous speakers about the fact that it is, so to speak, something like a new beginning and we all have to work to put the joint before the splitting. – These are very nice words at the beginning of a period of government. At the same time, however, it is also true that we are experiencing today again that a group that has moved in again is already trying to find provocation on the first day, instead of being humble. I think this is actually very unfortunate, because this is what is already shown again, and it will again strengthen the separation and the common one will be trampled on during this period. I think it is a provocation, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, that you are today nominating a candidate for the office of the Third President, who has never been in this House. I also regard it as a provocation to the citizens of our country – you proved it yesterday – that a clubman's representative was elected, which was really negative in the public, which was noticed in 2017 by the public by suffrage of voters. I think that's a provocation. You have to decide for yourself, but I think the way of the common look different. I think we should, of course, take this common path. We have great challenges to face, we have heard this today: the economic situation that has been seen in falling down, in falling back, a wave of migrants standing in front of our doorsteps – all these are problems that we have to solve together, because this is what the citizens of us expect, for which they have gone to the election and for which they have voted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary that we do this together. Each one of us has to work on himself and ask himself what contribution he can make here to work for the people in order to work together and also to re-establish the image of the politician so that politicians are not always presented as something completely negative. To improve the image of the politician again, this is also a task of every individual of us here. I think that this purpose should be taken by everyone here, then we could be able to go out together much more positively again. However, there is also such an initial meeting that it is about electing three presidents; the election is urgently necessary so that the process can be controlled and designed at all. Our clubman Herbert Kickl already said it: It is, of course, the free choice of any group whom it nominates. I believe that this is something we should stick to, and that is why we will also elect the candidates. So I'm going to pick all three candidates, as they say. However, I would like to break a lance for our freedomist Norbert Hofer, especially because it is precisely about the office of the Third President, for whom the Green Group obviously wants to apply. Norbert Hofer has already held this office, that is, you don't have to say that he will do well, but we know he did it well. Not only do we know that, but that's what the whole House knows. His presidency was extremely serious, extremely objective, and he did it very well. I think he's the right man for the Third President's office. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He was a very fair President, he was a reliable President, and he exercised this office with great discretion, as it corresponds to his overall personality. I think it is precisely this personality that needs it in a Bureau, so the Freedom Party has decided quite correctly and well; I am also pleased that it was a unanimous decision with us in the club to nominate Norbert Hofer for this office. I would also like to appeal to those political groups who believe that use is a matter of time if anyone comes too late. – No, it is not, but, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, it has a good reason for this use to develop, and it is very likely a use in this house. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: I said that, too, listen to my speech!]] - Well, you said it wasn't a use. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: What? I said...!]] I think it's very good, and I think it's very important and very essential that we stick to this use, because everything else would be a break, and then dams break. I don't think we should afford this here at all. I therefore believe that it makes sense and makes great sense to express confidence here in Norbert Hofer. I would like to thank everyone from the other political groups who are doing so. I'm going to choose all three candidates for my part.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4531	Mrs Geessler has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4553	Mr President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners here in the house and at home! So far, all the speeches have come up with the word climate crisis, the most pressing challenge of our time. I would like to remind you, therefore, of Werner Kogler's previous work on the topic of climate crisis: Two days before the election, we saw the world's largest demonstration, the world's largest strike. Seven million people The European Parliament has also expressed its support for the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to In Austria there was the largest demonstration in Austria in front of this house. A total of 150,000 people were on the streets for climate protection, students, students, apprentices, young, no longer as young people, who no longer want to see their future at stake, who no longer remain silent when far too little happens to counter the threat of development. In a few weeks, on the 29th of November, they will do it again. You'll go to the street again for this one earth, for this one home we have. And to whom do you turn, ladies and gentlemen? – To us, not only to the Greens, but to us all, to all of us all 183 today praised delegates to the Austrian National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One thing is clear: The only realistic response to the climate crisis is a courageous, consistent and socially just climate policy that ensures that our children and children in Austria can still have a good life, not just a few but all. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr and Mr Kucharovich.]] This will be decided over the next few years. For the next five years, our work in this National Council, our joint work will determine whether it will succeed to relocate, to re-set the course, to put rails into the future, towards climate protection. It is this National Council, which must ensure that Austria makes its fair contribution to climate protection, it is this National Council, which must ensure that we comply with our EU legal obligations, but it is also this National Council, which can ensure that we benefit from all the opportunities that lie in climate protection, whose legal decisions can decide whether we have clean air, more green, clean energy, healthier mobility and also more regional value creation in Austria. And one thing I can promise: With the Greens back in the National Council, there will be a comeback of climate protection in this Parliament. We will be a driving force, we will not let go of it, we will stay on it and we will be the voice of those who go on the road for climate protection – and that is why we are today also making a first request on climate protection, for an urgently needed re-improvement of the National Energy and Climate Plan, because this is what we are talking about. We now need, particularly in the context of this pressing problem, a courageous, self-confident Parliament, a Parliament that is willing to take real responsibility for the major changes that climate change needs, a parliament that supports the people of the communities in their important efforts, gives the economy the framework conditions, a parliament that listens to science and takes civil society seriously again, because we all bear responsibility, common responsibility for solving the climate crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and the Members of Parliament Künsberg Sarre]] It is all about our right to a good future, and that is why this National Council also needs a third president, whose party is at all levels behind the Paris Convention on Climate Change. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say thank you at this point for thanking all those people who are engaged in every Friday in the whole world and also in Austria, who no longer require politicians from us, but also no more millimeters less than to keep our promises and listen to science. In order not to break the streams in the country on the currents, there is still fertile soil in the land of the fields, so that Austria is rich in the future, we all need for climate protection, Austria needs a parliament for the future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Greiner.]] It's about the next five years. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all hear the message – we Greens do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4637	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4658	Mr President. High house! The constituent meeting of the National Council always offers the opportunity to reflect a little and to exchange views on the fundamental issues of parliamentaryism. I would very much like to give you a few thoughts which, on the one hand, are for me as very convinced parliamentarians, but also for us NEOS as a whole are acting leaders. Unfortunately, there are not many really forward-looking, ambitious visions in Austria. There is very often the motto – this is a famous Austrian motto –: Because it's always been like that! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (delighted) That's right!]] We, as Parliament, should not be satisfied with this. Especially here in the House, it is unfortunately so that this motto very often penetrates very strongly and we, because it has always been so, are orienting to it. I believe that we, as parliamentarians, must be much more aware of the responsibility we have received. We are the directly elected representatives. We are the representatives of the population, and we have a responsibility to make good, better laws than we did in some cases before. We need an actionable, a self-confident, a strong Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Let's remember: The creator of our federal constitution Hans Kelsen – the elegance of the federal constitution is always mentioned – has also assumed that Parliament should have a strong role in Austrian democracy. He even assumed that it should be the central institution of democracy in Austria. I think Hans Kelsen was right. What would happen if we met Hans Kelsen now on the street and asked: Did you imagine that? How do you see the state of the Austrian Parliament? – I am convinced that he would be very disappointed because it certainly does not correspond to his idea of parliamentaryism, as the Austrian Parliament unfortunately works very often. The fact is that the Austrian Parliament very often sees itself as an extended workbench of the Federal Government. The fact is that we accept it if we often do not receive the necessary respect from the federal governments, whether it be for parliamentary questions, which are often very weakly answered, whether it be for the question of how government documents are somehow run through this House without consideration, in order to get to the appropriate laws as quickly as possible. The fact is that, unfortunately, we do very often make bad laws. We are also making bad laws because we are far too little involved with the experts who are available in Austria and listen to them too little. We also often make bad laws because we are being driven by the public rather than discussing long and wide over certain pros and contrasts and considering how we can perhaps achieve better solutions, even for the future, not only for a morning, but also for a day to come. We also often make bad laws because we do not really take the parliamentary discourse very seriously, because we do not discuss questions intensively and make more serious debates. If you listen to German politicians or politicians, you hear again and again that the members of the Bundestag say in a newspaper that they are now making a proposal to start a debate. There is no such thing in Austria. Long, extensive debates, such as in the German Bundestag, where intensive discussions are being held in the committees across party borders, where there is serious discussion in the media, in the public debate, such a thing is de facto unthinkable in Austria. I am convinced that if we discuss certain issues together longer and more intensively, we will not only create a greater acceptance of the laws but also better laws, and I believe that we should take a lead at the German Bundestag. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] I believe that we must take our role as parliamentarians more seriously in the future. As foreseen in the Federal Constitution, we must once again assert ourselves more strongly and act more self-confidently as parliamentarians. I also believe that we have this typical Austrian, easy-to-use motto: Because it has always been so!, really must say goodbye, especially in connection with Parliament. I am convinced that this would be good for us, I am convinced that Austria would do well, I am convinced that this would be good for the citizens of Austria, and I am above all convinced that it would be good for this House if we finally did with this eternal motto: Because it's always been that way! That's why: Let us together try to find more intensive, more meaningful solutions to the future and perhaps not only think about tomorrow and the next election, but also about the day after tomorrow and beyond!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4716	Members of Parliament have been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4737	Estimated President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Austrians! Today is a very big day for all of us who have been praised. As a Member of Parliament, each one of us bears a very, very great responsibility, and I should like to congratulate everyone in this House very warmly: all those who have made it to Parliament – there have never been so many young people and, above all, so many women in this House – and especially those who have managed to be elected to Parliament again. Each of us has a very intense campaign of election. Everyone has advertised his beliefs, has advertised his ideas, and the people have decided – at this point a very warm thanks to all Austrians who have gone to the election, and above all to all those who have given us their votes as a People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that what we have experienced especially in the last days – we as the People's Party have constituted our club – is a feeling that reminds almost a bit of the first day of school: an excitement, much joy to see each other again, But especially to get to know new ones. The beginning of a new legislative period is always such a small political new beginning, sometimes a bigger one. But what remains the same for all of us is the great responsibility this House bears for the electorate, for the people, for the people out there. Everyone feels committed to his or her region, his or her origin. But what we all agree with is the task and duty to shape this country for our children and for the next generation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm mom of a 15-month-old son, and day after day this little, wonderful being discovers the world, learns new things about it, falls down, skins its head, notes: That's not how it works, I have to change something!, and day after day he keeps us on track and simply delights us with a boundless curiosity and energy. If I can observe his joy, if something tastes good, his impatience, if something does not work, or even his infinite joy when he plays with other children, then that is exactly every single day of the task of working for this country, of making bad politics and, above all, of changing this country for the better. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As I see it as my mission, so are you and all of you. And the challenges of the future are great, regardless of whether this concerns the economic system, according to forecasts it will no longer grow as we have seen it – this economic system is also a key pillar of our prosperity, our social policy – or education, training, teaching, continuing training. All these major future issues up to the We need to deal with climate change in this House, all this needs solutions with home understanding, which simply also needs conviction and a good relationship. I am very pleased to be a member of this House. I wish all of us and, above all, the three Presidents who are elected today, a happy hand, a good fellow together, sometimes, if there are very emotional debates, a re-establishment, so that we can take our responsibility for this country and the next generations well and properly and can work for this country and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4795	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4816	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators! Welcome to all New! I am very pleased that it has succeeded – that is to say, through social democracy and the Greens – to raise the proportion of women to almost 40 percent in total. We do not yet account for the population, because we are over 50 percent, but we are approaching the target with small steps. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have started the constituent session, which is a very high-level meeting for all of us, with which the Austrian Federal Anthem: “Home to great daughters and sons”. We had a worthy celebration in this House on the occasion of 100 years of women's election – the first eight women's representatives moved into this House 100 years ago, with a lot of blood, sweat and tears the women's right to vote was fought – and we can say that in recent years many ministers have the quality of life of Women who could at least improve women's lives extremely legally. We definitely have a lot to do with social policy. If we take stock of it and ask where we stand today, which women will benefit, which women may lose, then we must also ask ourselves the question of who was the previous governments, sooner or later. The previous governments have passed those laws that make it better for women. Under the last government, it happened – it was also intended – that for example, the signatures of half a million people who signed the women's people's desire were ignored, which did not help to ensure solidarity with all women and the quality of life for all women. They were all on the road, especially in the election campaign lately, and we all heard many life stories of women. When I think of women's life stories, I think of women who did it, then I think of women who told me how they got to the top of companies, whether with or without quotas. I am a quota advocate, otherwise we would not be so many in the House now, although we do not yet have a legal quota. In my opinion, that is still what I think, then we would be 50 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I have also met women who have managed to get out of homelessness, for example. They now have a job and take guided tours through the city centre and can tell how they could free themselves from their situation but also with the help of the social system. That is exactly what I think is the point of our work here in the House: that we must ensure social status for these people so that they do not always have to help themselves individually. Some people need help from the outside, and we can do so with a slender, but well-functioning state, with a social state. It is therefore essential that we take action together, ladies and gentlemen, very much. In fact, women have also told me that they have been discriminated against in terms of quality in companies for many years, are not allowed to talk about it, may be able to bring an individual complaint, it is usually only a compensation for damages, but the women remain stigmatized and then most often leave the company. That is, if we, these almost 40 percent of women here in the House, are together, we can already manage to achieve a piece of improvement in terms of pay inequality for women with a legislative proposal – with a proposal that is already a reality in Iceland. We can make it possible for companies that deliberately do not pay the same amount of money to be taken into account that there are sanctions for fines to be paid. In the future, it must be possible for half of all jobseekers, namely women, to receive benefits from the labour market service, which has also been abolished. Women are much worse in unemployment statistics than men, not least because of the algorithms introduced. Women also need the right to change in terms of working time. Those who have worked part - time for a time should have a legal claim to work full - time again. These three and more points we have tabled in the framework of a proposal, ladies and gentlemen, because women's rights are human rights, social protection always means climate protection and vice versa. So it's what social democracy wants to understand, because it doesn't matter where women live, it doesn't matter how mobile it is. are, it does not matter where they work and how they can reconcile their professional and private lives. The almost 40 percent could change a lot here, I ask you to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4879	Mrs Prince is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4901	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it more than unfortunate that the Greens begin their parliamentary re-entry with so much unfairness and intolerance. Yesterday, reports were made in the media, according to which Norbert Hofer was the head of a right-wing party and therefore could not be third president of the National Council. Unfortunately, it has become commonplace that such sharp terms are used very inflationaryly, that right and right-wing extremes are mixed, and that everyone who has a dissenting opinion gets the stamp right-right on it. One wants to discredit the political competitor here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to encourage future meaningful debates in this House to re-enact an objective sense to which we can all agree. One should not blur the meaning of extremist, radical. It is no extremist and it is no one radical, just because that is claimed by the political competitor. One is radical – regardless of whether left, right, or for religious reasons – if one considers, exercises or legitimizes the use of violence in order to implement his political or religious idea or his personal view, if one wants to destroy our basic constitutional order or glorify totalitarian systems. There is a need for the element of violence and the intention to bring about a constitutional change. That's extremist and that's radical. But there's no contact debt. I'm not extremist when I give the wrong hand when I go to an event where perhaps an extremist is. There is no extremism due to purely content overlaps. I'm appealing a little bit to your tolerance. We also do not claim that some Green MEPs who have moved in and have experience in demonstrations – including demonstrations that have led to violence, to the devastation of the city centre of Vienna, to attacks on police officers – are extremists. They took part, but we're not saying they're extremists. I suppose they assumed that the demonstration was peaceful. It is also not right-wing when one is in favour of a strict migration and asylum policy; it is not right-wing when one speaks for border protection; nor is it racist when I speak against uncontrolled immigration and its consequences; nor am I sexist and not hostile to women when I express myself against gender ideology, but these are legitimate political opinions. Clubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has gratefully quoted Voltaire. – All of this meant Voltaire. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore very dangerous to blur the meaning of extremism and radicality just to defame the political opponent. I know why you're doing that, why this is your method. The colleague, who yesterday played these unfair reports about Norbert Hofer, says that border protection is an attack on the European spirit, which obviously consists of overrun let's go. I didn't know! However, the majority of the population wants this, and many people want border protection because of course it corresponds to the home mind, reason and natural self-claim. Well, what do you need to do as a minority representative? – One has to defame this opinion. One has to say that it is extreme, it is radical, it is xenophobic, it is objectionable, and anyone who represents this opinion has to put it in this corner until then no one dares to represent it. That's the method. For example, legitimate political opinions should dissolve in the discussion and disappear from it. We oppose this, so we reap a lot of outrages. The FPÖ is a democratic, right party. Norbert Hofer is the head of a democratic, right party. We have always accepted election results, although many results have not matched us, as you can imagine. We have not put on our feet any weekly Thursday demonstrations against election results that we did not fit. We've always said: The voter is at the word, that is accepted. When I look at the candidate, who is being set up here as a signal for an open, forward-looking Austria and who has a world view of tolerance and diversity – only very briefly: for us this is not true, so we do not belong to it, we are obviously not embedded in this diversity –: Even in the open world, the sense is completely blurred. For me, openness is the treasure of, the interest in foreign cultures, foreign people in their countries, of course also the treasures of their own culture. For me, openness of the world is not the support of uncontrolled mass immigration, as it has now changed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the former rector of the Academy of Fine Arts makes this house available to immigrants who have come to us illegally, leave her there nocturnal, let her act there politically, then this has to do with world openness, with tolerance, with diversity not the least, but it is an abuse of her position. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just to support this: It calls its own rectorate activity an all-female queer-feminist rectorate. I do not know what that is, it will probably explain it to us in the following discussions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] I only believe that it does not have much to do with openness, tolerance and diversity, but it is simply a political agenda. That means we remember: Who still believes that the Academy of Fine Arts has something to do with aesthetics, with art, with culture, with sculpture, with painting, is completely naïve. This has obviously become a political academy. That's very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4976	I'm asking you to come to a close. The speaking time is completely exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4991	I come to the conclusion: I would appreciate the sight of the expression of our future national council president Wolfgang Sobotka very much if he were to find himself in an all-female queer-feminist national council president, a high-political national council president. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kucharovich.]] I would, however, call on you to elect Norbert Hofer as the third President of the National Council, whether from Usance or not; but please not just from Usance, for he is the most suitable candidate for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5030	I would draw attention to the fact that the 23-minute speaking time quota has been exhausted. Mr Ernst-Dziedzic has been reported next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5054	Mr President. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, viewers and audiences! Today we celebrate not only our comeback for climate protection, transparency and justice, but also a comeback of clear attitude. The Greens are not just about the responsibility for the next generations, but also about looking at what generations have suffered before and what they have fought. It is also very much about a sense of history in this House; it needs this, and this has been painfully missing in the last two years. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Go, please, hey! That's a little superfluous!]] In our opinion, the inability of one party to rule today, which is the third President of the National Council, is indeed manifest in the daily individual cases that the country repeatedly throws back in dark times. [[Call the FPÖ:Bla, bla, bla!]] That's exactly why we won't choose the party chairman of this party. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We cordially invite you, especially the SPÖ and the NEOS, to do so again. A German national connection is anything but objective, and I would like to call you the most, although I am younger than some here in the room: Learn history! [[Call the FPÖ: You will know!]] Between 1945 and 1953, and between 1956 and 1983, the strongest party was the President of the National Council and the Third President of the National Council. The election of a member of the FPÖ as the third President, Mr SPÖ, was precisely in 1983 your contribution to the desired coalition with the FPÖ. But there is always an alternative, and it is not for nothing in the name of the Greens. Our alternative is an antifascist, and today it is called Eva Blimlinger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Her grandpa Josef Gerö, who survived the concentration camps Dachau and Buchenwald, was a Minister of Justice after the war. Not only does it have a lot of experience – including in administration – but it also has this sense of history that must move the Greens back into this house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] History teaches us that Parliamentaryism, the attacks on human rights, freedom of the press, freedom of expression of this House are not worthy. It is no coincidence that there is the highest proportion of women in the Second Republic in the Greens, just as there is no coincidence that there is in us a castle country Croatian, a Carinthian Slovenian, people with Bosnian, with Polish, with Hungarian-Egyptian as with Turkish roots. We are all Austria, and for all of us Austria is home. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We don't want an isolated Austria. We want an Austria based on cooperation and diplomacy. Democracy always means having a choice, having an alternative, and freedom is the right to tell others what they do not want to hear. You can be sure that we Greens are not only back, but we will use this right here loud and out of conviction. So maybe you'll get a back! Having a choice is highly democratic and not provocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5149	Member Krisper has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5170	Mr President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen, especially the new ones. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of the session we were sitting here very solemnly and respectfully in front of the House as the heart of democracy. This is already beginning to erode, despite the good intentions formulated here and there. I hope, however, that I am optimistic that everything can get better, including this Austrian Parliament, which, like any institution, has to respect and defend and regain it once it has lost it. The Parliament of the Republic, we are, each and every one of us. We MEPs are well supported by the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate. - Thank you for that. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The question is: What does this require us to do? What do we do about the possibilities we are given? How do we do our work, which is associated with special responsibility? It is, of course, an honor to be able to talk about the speaker's seat here, and makes you proud as a citizen, but in my opinion, true pride can only stand up if we deal responsibly with this task. I am thinking of our role as a model for the citizens who watch themselves on TV or directly from the gallery, and I am thinking in particular of the students we always welcome when they come to the hall and sit down, just perhaps to go verbally back to the goggles at the next moment. What model do we give them? What are they going to do about a visit to Parliament? What do students learn from us? – When I think of the last two years, my perception is that we often act like a very difficult school class in this room. There are not only the accumulators, the swatters, the tails, the mobile players, there are in particular the clearly defined classes that struggle inexorably against each other. – Example note: Air up, I'd say. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] One does not give the other any deserved success, so not only in the last legislative period was the majority of all opposition applications postponed or rejected. – This can also be done better. Yes, sometimes a large party takes on an idea of the opposition and brings it in as its own; at some point, a request from the opposition may go through as its own opposition request! But what's going on in the room? – If it really becomes controversial, then the waves go up. Then there are speeches that my teacher in school would have just: Thematic error!, said. This is then a pure counter-attack, completely off the agenda item. On the other hand, you are here very quickly at the duword, with this parliamentary you are often distanced more than a respectful you. This externally communicated kindness is often not a guarantee of a well-kept relationship with each other. Perhaps we can also carry the kindness that is sometimes very comfortable behind the scenes more into this room, to admit the other class course once a bit, so more often to support a request when he makes sense, to say sentences – I have almost never heard anything like this before – like: Not so bad at all, the proposal! or: You are right, Mr President, or even: At this point I was wrong! That would be a debate culture, as my colleague Scherak has already mentioned. There would be an argument that would allow us to get closer to a consensus, to get together, to get together and thereby to show a behaviour of which the students who watch us can then learn something very well and because of which the adult spectators may be more interested in our debates and perhaps more room for confidence between us. In any case, I will continue to work for this and I am sure that many of you will do so, including you – in particular the new ones may be easier to do. In this sense, in the sense of living democracy, of the parliamentary spirit: Never mind the crisis, go on working! To a good companion in the High House!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5230	Mrs Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – I can draw your attention to the fact that there are only 3 minutes of remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5265	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I will take a short look, but I would nevertheless like to sum up some things for us again. I gave my first speech here exactly two years ago, on the same subject as today, namely my expectations to the President of the National Council, the President of the National Council. I expect from him and those who exercise this office clear words, a straight back and an open heart. This is not only what I expect from those who sit behind us at the Bureau, but I expect it to be simple and gripping from all of us. In the last few weeks, we have all met many people who have received a great deal of appreciation, kindness and goodwill, but at the same time have expressed the request that we should deal with each other properly, that we discuss – or debate – as has been said today – that we maintain an open parliamentaryism, but that we are well aware of our responsibility and our role as a model. – I expect all of us to do so. I would like to talk briefly about the people who have been proposed. I believe that the behaviour we have here must and should have a model function; that is also what Wolfgang Sobotka has lived and always kept in mind for us during the last legislative period. And I'm with you all the time: I believe that there must be a lot better in this respect than it was in the past legislative period. I have learned more about Doris Bures as Chairman of the BAT Research Committee. It has led this committee very correctly and really neatly and routinely, and I believe that despite the delicate matter, we have succeeded in achieving a good result together and making it clear. – Thank you very much. Norbert Hofer I've known for decades. He was a young councillor when my father was mayor in Eisenstadt. There was no non-cooperation, there were often intense discussions, alone because of the great differences in political things. Nevertheless, when my father has taken up office, you have succeeded in allowing him to be a man of handshake and a man of honor. [[towards Abg. Hofer]] - I'll charge you that. [[Abg. Hofer: Thank you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are making an important decision here today by selecting the Presidents of the National Council, and I believe that we should preserve our reverence, not only from these high offices, but also from awe, when we enter the hall here, take responsibility and do what we have promised to do today, namely to work for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5308	Mrs Kuntzl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). She too only has more than 3 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5329	Ladies and gentlemen! The day of fishing is indeed a very special day for those of us who have not been praised for the first time. It tells you beyond all routines that we are here in a special place and have a special task, a special responsibility and special opportunities. The Presidents we will vote today have many tasks, including the task of paying attention to the dignity of the house. The dignity of the house, is that an antiquiet term? – I don't think so, it's a very central concept. This House here, the Parliament, is the place of democracy, is the heart of democracy in Austria, and we all shape the political culture in our country, which is also a special part of our work. I am often asked why so much is disputed – you will certainly be asked. I then always try to convey that this is a contest of ideas and that the essential thing is the achievement of democracy, that this contest takes place here in Parliament in words, and not in street fights, for example, as in other regions of the world. Dialogue is very important. Dialogue is something that we in our Parliament should work out more. I think that the phase of the transitional government was a very valuable phase, including here in the house, a very lively phase – a lively phase in the best sense, in which great respect and in many negotiations and discussions were tried to find out in which areas there are similarities and which joint projects can be implemented here in the house. I think that we should take away from this mood something for the time when there is again a government constellation, and that we should seek common ground, seek overlaps and engage in dialogue – not only in the house, but also outside – that social partners and dialogue with civil society should again be given greater importance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not just discussing here, we are adopting laws, and we have the great opportunity to have the living conditions of people in to improve our country. We have a great opportunity for many people in our country who urgently need to make life more manageable, to create greater, better opportunities for education for our children and young people. It would be high on time. We also need and want to work on the question of which world we will leave our children. Climate protection must be one of the central tasks for all of us in the coming years. We have today tabled very concrete legislative proposals – for an annual climate protection billion, for a climate protection council. We don't want to waste time – we can't waste time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to put the joint over the separation, and then together we can move and accomplish incredibly much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5386	Mr Reimon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can tell him that the club has only one minute leftover. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5408	Mr President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! Then let's get to the point and use the minute! It's about something. We are politicians and politicians, we should comply with rules – that is not what we have seen in recent months – and we should change and improve rules. The use that the National Council Presidium is divided into three parties has only existed since 1983. That's good for democracy. But it is bad that the fix is granted and not chosen. It is better if we vote if we take our democratic right seriously. The FPÖ, which must be said, is not appropriate to take a neutral position like this, nor Norbert Hofer. Three FPÖ Members have spoken here, they were the only three who attacked individual representatives of the other parties. They spread falsehoods while we were talking here. The FPÖ is twittering, and a country party is also spreading that Members have done the fishing in the languages of minorities and thus show what they think of our country. – Now I ask you: Do you want such a party to run the business here? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I ask the Social Democrats, I ask the Liberals, I also ask the ÖVP: Do you want to, or do you want to choose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5444	Member of the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5465	Mr President. Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! I'm glad I'm allowed to start a new job here. About 50 years ago, I was in the high house for the first time. My uncle Jacob took me away at the time, I was sitting in the Bundesratsloge, at the time still in the house at the ring, and he excited me for parliamentaryism – I am grateful to him for it. I started the last new profession nine years ago, and I came to the “Kurier”. And what do you do when you get to a newspaper? – Talking to Hugo Portisch. I drove to him and said: Hugo, what am I supposed to do? Do it? – He said: I'll give you the following – I quote –: “The dignity of man is untouchable. Wherever the dignity of man [...] is questioned, one must go to the barricades! The fight against injustice, prejudices, envy cooperatives, fear making is a major task of the newspaper.” – I think that is actually quite well defined as the main task of politics. But we also talked about the concept of truth, and he said: The worst are those who say they have the truth. The search for truth is essential. What did I do to prepare for today? – I read Hannah Arendt. Mr President, I quote – it is not my words, the essay is called “truth and lies in politics”; I know the word is forbidden, but it is a quote –: [[Cheerfulness of Members Krisper and Meinl-Reisinger]] “Lying seems to belong to the craft not only of the demagogen, but also of the politician and even of the statesman.” However, it does not mean that, but it comes to an essential point to speak, namely that we people often make ourselves heavy with knowledge, with the acceptance of knowledge, and it also warns – and this is important – against the “tyrannical inclinations of professional truth-gathers”. She also quotes Immanuel Kant. It is no coincidence that there are more and more books on education just in times like this; this is obviously necessary. Kant has said very clearly that when people are given the opportunity to express their thoughts, they are finally given the opportunity to think. I have to say critically, that has accompanied me as a journalist in recent years. I felt what it means when trying to control not only thoughts but also writings – message control – to put pressure on journalists and thus on public opinion. This, too, belongs, of course, to the time of the social media. It is very easy to act with emotions, with quick, short words, and it is also very easy to frighten people. Today I listened very attentively to Bishop Chalupka, who quoted Paul’s letter to the Thessalonians. We need to scare people. I believe that this is also a political task, and I believe that this is also a task that we have here in the National Council. So my conviction is to act against authoritarian tendencies, and yes, I have experienced them in these 17 months of Turquoise-Blue. I have written against it, and now I am going to speak against it. Something else bothers me: the re-interpretation of values, when I read that Viktor Orbán represents Christianity – Christianity is for inclusion, for cohesion, and not for the exclusion of people; that is what he is doing, and that is also something I have unfortunately experienced here. To conclude: I want us to make positive use of emotions without emotions. I am pleased that Europe has already been the subject today. I think that is very important, and Mr President Sobotka and also President Bures will be engaged in foreign policy. There is the big issue of Western Balkans, and I believe that this should also be a subject here. It is bad that the discussion and also the talks on North Macedonia and Albania have been postponed; I believe that we should talk about this too. We need to build a united, strong Europe, and Austria can only be in the middle of it, as a strong, worldly society in a very beautiful, strong, united Europe. For this I will work and fight; and for all those who do with me I rejoice. I am pleased that I have found a group in NEOS that shares my beliefs. I am pleased that Kelsen was also talking about today and about a strong Parliament. If we do this together, it's good, and if not, we'll be punished anyway. However, we are positive today, and that is why I am pleased that we are doing this with each other. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5529	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. [[14:57:49]] Election of the President/President
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5550	We will now come to the vote. There is a desire to carry out the elections in election cells. The first is the election of the President or President of the National Council. There is a motion for a resolution on my name. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes to other elective candidates. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be held secret to the opposite vote with votes. I am now allowed to interrupt the sitting briefly in order to create the technical conditions for the election in election cells. However, I will take her back immediately and ask Mr. Wolfgang Zanger to stay ready. You can start with the construction. I'm interrupting the meeting for a short time. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.58 a.m. and resumed at 15.03 a.m.]] I'm allowed to start the interrupted session again. The names of the delegates shall be called in alphabetical order by the writing. In case of a name call, please contact the constituents with the constituency. You must specify your name and then get your constituency handed over. For the election, use only this official voting paper. On this is the name of the desired candidate or candidate to write. After filling out the poll in the election cell, it must be thrown in the envelope to the right of you. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin the call for name.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5638	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the written procedure. I am allowed to interrupt the session for this purpose. [[The competent staff shall make the number of votes.]] [[The sitting was suspended at 15.25 a.m. and resumed at 15.36 a.m.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start the interrupted sitting again. I can now announce the results of the election: Members cast: 181; of which: 163. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 82. Wolfgang Sobotka received 143 votes. Mr Karlheinz had twelve votes in favour. Eight votes were cast for other Members. That's power. Wolfgang Sobotka was elected President of the National Council. [[General condolences.]] [[The remaining eight votes were for the MEPs: Kogler: 2, Blimlinger: 1, Gödl: 1, Martin Graf: 1, Marchetti: 1, Scherak: 1, Zarits: 1.]] President's address
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5733	High house! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Ladies and gentlemen. I particularly welcome those who are members of the House for the first time. I am pleased that we have recorded the highest proportion of women in the House with 72 female Members, which is almost 40 percent of Members. Values Guests here in the hall and in front of the TV sets! Dear staff of the Clubs and the Parliamentary Directorate! I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the great confidence you have expressed to me the other day. On the one hand, by your vote you have strengthened the position of the President of the National Council vis-à-vis other bodies of that state. On the other hand, as Primus inter Pares, you have the duty to be responsible for the protection of values and attitudes on which our democracy rests, to which everyone can confess and must pay particular attention: the rule of law as the principle of our daily action; the love of freedom as a guaranteed fundamental right; the determination of self-responsibility and solidarity in order to ensure the dignity of the human being; and the commitment to sustainability and security to take the fear of the future. We must never lose sight of these values and attitudes in day-to-day policy, in the heat of parliamentary dialogue and in the fight. Next year we will celebrate 75 years Second Republic. In these 75 years there have been economic and political crises and scandals. None of this, however, has put our strong and wide-ranging democracy at risk. I do not deliberately put the additive liberal in front of the word democracy, because democracy must be per se liberal. Karl Popper puts it to the point when he says: “We need the freedom to prevent the abuse of state power, and we need the state to prevent the abuse of freedom,” because the abuse of freedom can also “be used too misinformation and to injure.” – Popper said that in 1994, there was not yet talk of Fakenevs and Hassposting. Arik Brauer, who recently received the Fritz-Csoklich-Democracy Award from a consortium of Austrian daily newspapers, made it clear in an interview in the "Press" that democracy is not a natural law but is made by man. Therefore, democracy must always be re-designed, fought and secured by every generation. In his review of his life, he says: Today, “Democracy is much more powerful than it was in my childhood.” Democracy meets and affects all people. It has its crystallisation point in the Austrian Parliament with its two chambers, the Federal Council and the newly formed National Council. It is our common duty and responsibility to carry out our duties in the interests of our homeland and our countrymen, on the unbreakable basis of our federal constitution, through elections legitimised as Members of the House. The way in which we deal with each other is also, in many ways, an example of how the people of our society are dealing with each other outside Parliament. It is crucial that we encounter each other with fundamental human respect on the basis of full tolerance. The German Federal President other than Joachim Gauck, in his speech of thanks, has fully addressed this concept of tolerance and its application at the award of the Honorary Doctoral Award of the University. He said: “In a democratic society, positions should be tolerated even if one considers them to be an error.” Our tolerance only ends where intolerant people ignore the legal foundations and values of our state. As much as it will be up to me as the President of the National Council to justify the trust I have placed in me, I also put forward the clear expectation of the parties represented in Parliament and of each and every one of the elected Members to present the common foreign and security policy on the crucial issues of the country. One thing has been noted: Our Parliament is not Twitter and not Facebook, but our Parliament is a place where people and opinions meet personally. Our Parliament is a place of dialogue and respect. Today, this Parliament is taking up its work in the XXVII. This is the first time that we have been able to reach agreement on this Today we see five parties in this House – five parties with their own ideas and own programmes, each of them determined to comply with the mandate of their electorate. As President, I will, at any rate, advocate a strong parliamentaryism: a parliamentarianism that does not end at the gates of our House but looks at the dialogue with society as a whole, specifically the dialogue with science and art; a parliamentarianism, in which the majority is accepted and the rights of minorities are respected; a parliamentarianism, which is also strictly and seriously justified in its control function. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we stand today at the beginning of a turn of time – it has already been noted in your speeches. Great challenges will be met in Europe and worldwide. Great upheavals and breaks are ahead of Austria, Europe and the world. We must meet them with all seriousness and discretion. Economically, the European Commission expects another downward trend, especially in world trade. The tensions between the USA and China as well as the ongoing discussion about the Brexit – when and how – accelerate this trend. It will not take long for this trend to begin on the labour market as well as private consumption in Europe and also in Austria. Let us not forget the critical situations such as the critical security situation in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf or the recent invasion of Turkey in Syria! What is happening there will not be without consequences for us: a possible re-enforcement of terrorism, a possible outbreak of new war conflicts or possible new movements of refugees. As if these day-to-day challenges were not already complex enough, we as political representatives must find answers to profound future issues, try to answer questions such as those of demographic change and its impact on our social security and social cohesion; the progressive digitization and the resulting opportunities for the use of artificial intelligence as well as the associated re-evaluation of the benefits of big data; the sustainable changes of our climate and its consequences for food production, landscapes and people in general; the uncontrolled migration with a clear attitude to combat illegal migration, but with a commitment to the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the indivisible human rights; the great challenges of a successful integration of those who can find a new home in Austria. We also need answers to the ever-increasing anti-Semitism in Europe, which we must provide the forehead and which we must combat through comprehensive analysis, research, targeted education and clear sanctions at its roots. The anti-Semitism researcher Schwarz-Friesel from the Technical University of Berlin once again called on her impressive book “Judehass on the Internet” to understand Jewish hatred not only as an marginal phenomenon of the well-known right-wing scene, but to note that the multipliers on the Internet are now normal everyday users – with the state of Israel often serving as a projection area – and therefore left and Muslim anti-Semitism is heard and fought with the same consistency as right-wing. We need answers to political Islam, to which a clear rejection must be given as a threat to our society. We must not tolerate parallel societies and, above all, we must demand a clear commitment to the rule of law and democracy by the people living with us, as the sister-scholl-preis-carrier and native Turkish Necla Kelek called for more than ten years ago. There will be different positions that you, as Members of Parliament, will take on each subject. The diversity of opinions is the constitutional element of our parliamentary democracy. It will be up to us, however, that we do not focus on stereotypes and stereotypes of opinions, but rather on comprehensive facts and their analysis, as the sociologist Martin Schröder puts it. – I can warmly recommend his book, which came out last year. Only then will we succeed in finding a good, common path for Austria, which is based on the facts and the facts – to strengthen parliamentaryism and our democracy, with a sense of common and with great respect for the different. [[General condolences.]] [[15:49:37]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5827	We now proceed to the election of the Second President or the Second President. There is a motion for a resolution on Doris Bures. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I now ask the writer, Mrs Steinacker, to start with the name call; she will be replaced by Mrs Ecker later.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5871	The vote will end. I can again ask the staff of the House to carry out the poll. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes. [[The competent staff shall make the number of votes.]] [[The sitting was suspended at 4.09 a.m. and resumed at 4.18 p.m.]] I can resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: 181 votes were issued, of which: 171. This means that the absolute majority of valid votes are 86. ==References====External links== Mr Rendi-Wagner had eleven votes, to Maximilian Lercherneun. Nine votes were voted for by other Members. Mrs Doris Bures is thus elected Second President of the National Council. [[General condolences.]] [[Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council.]] [[The remaining nine votes were for Members: Hammerschmid: 2, Lightenfried 2, Muchitsch: 2, Cornelia Ecker: 1, Reimon: 1, Keck: 1.]] I should like to ask the honourable Member whether she is taking office.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5971	I accept this office with great humility and great joy.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5992	Thank you very much. I should like to congratulate you, I am looking forward to good cooperation and to ask you to take your place at the Bureau. [[16:20:35]] Election of the Third President/third President
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6013	We shall now come to the election of the Third President or the Third President. There are two constituency proposals, one on ing. Norbert Hofer, the other one on power. Eva Blimlinger. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. In turn, I may draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I would ask the author, Mr Zanger, to begin with the name call; Mr Gahr will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6066	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will again make their votes under the supervision of the scribes. To that end, I am interrupting the sitting. [[The competent staff shall make the number of votes.]] [[The sitting was suspended at 4.39 p.m. and resumed at 16.48 p.m.]] I can resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election: Members cast: 181; of which: 166 votes. The absolute majority of valid votes are 84 votes. There were 123 votes for, 34 against and 34 votes against, by Mr Hofer. Nine votes were voted for by other Members. [[By way of derogation from the announcement of the vote by President Sobotka, the actual vote result is as follows: Votes cast: 181; valid: 165 votes; eight votes for various other Members.]] That's what Deputies Ing is. Norbert Hofer was elected Third President of the National Council. [[Prolonged, partially present, applause with FPÖ, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Members go to the newly elected Third President and congratulate him.]] [[The remaining eight votes were for Members: Kickl: 3, Stefan: 2, Anger: 1, Rosa Ecker: 1, Sobotka: 1]] I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6170	I accept the choice and thank you very much for your confidence.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6191	Thank you. I congratulate you and may ask you to sit down at the Bureau. Good cooperation! As announced, I am now allowed to interrupt the session on the reduction of the electoral cells or, above all, in order to carry out the 360-degree photographs. This 360-degree recording will be used for the documentation of this meeting and will take a few minutes. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stay in your places. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6239	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to start the interrupted session again. I would like to thank you once again for expressing my confidence in serving this Austrian National Council and thus our democracy for the third time. Let me also tell you that it is a great pleasure for me to accompany this parliamentary work, especially because we women are so many in this House as never before. This has been mentioned several times today. I think that's also a nice signal to our daughters. I can promise you that with all my strength and great effort I will ensure that the dignity of this House and the rights of Members who are the representatives of the people are respected. I will do this with full commitment and passion and, as I hope, with your support. I wish all of us good for the next five years in this new legislative period. [[General condolences.]] [[16:56:18]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and the folders and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6288	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. Since there is only one election proposal, according to an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I do not make this election by voting by standing up and sitting. Moreover, the current elections are held under one. Is there any objection to this procedure? - That's not the case. Then I'll do that. We'll make our choice. It is my proposal that MEPs Hermann Gahr, Mag.a Michaela Steinacker, Cornelia Ecker, Wolfgang Zanger and Ralph Schalmeiner should be given to writers and writers. as well as Deputies Johann Singer, Ing. Markus Vogl, MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, Sigrid Maurer, BAund Mag. Gerald Loacker to select folders or folders. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this election proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also ask in this case whether all the electorate will accept the election. – I have heard of all consent. This is also the purpose of this agenda. [[16:58:00]] 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6420	We're coming to 4. Agenda item. According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election takes place according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the numbers of Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election. For the main committee, 23 members are proposed by common accord. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the ÖVP Club 9, to the SPÖ Club 5, to the FPÖ Club 4, to the Green Club 3, to the NEOS Club 2 members. On the basis of the lists I have received, the following Members have been elected: from the ÖVP-Klub: May. Michael Hammer, Peter Haubner, Elisabeth Köstinger, Sebastian Kurz, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Mag. Wolfgang Sobotka, Mag.a Michaela Steinacker, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, August Wöginger ; from the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl, Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc; of the liberal club: Dr.in Dagmar Belakovich, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Herbert Kickl ; from the Green Club: Dr. In Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mag. Werner Kogler, Sigrid Maurer, BA; from the NEOS Club: Mag.a Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA. The election and appointment of the members of the main committee are thus carried out. The item on the agenda is closed. [[17:00:19]] 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee, Rules of Procedure Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6627	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. I would like to begin by using the following permanent committees: the Inconsistency Committee, the Immunity Committee, the Budget Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a number of 23 members and substitute members are now proposed for the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, each with 9 members and substitute members, each of whom has been defined as follows: 9 members and replacement members to the EIA, 5 members to the SPÖ, 4 to the liberals, 3 to the Green Club and 2 to the NEOS. For the Incompatibilities Committee and the Immunities Committee, a number of 13 members and replacement members are proposed, each with a split between the clubs as follows: 5 members and replacement members each to the ÖVP, 3 to the SPÖ, 2 to the Free and Greens, 1 member and one replacement member to the NEOS Club. First of all, I shall vote on the Committee size of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is 23 as mentioned above. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I shall now vote on the Committee size of the Inconsistency Committee and the Immunity Committee. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for the 13th Committee size to have a corresponding sign. – This Committee size is also unanimously adopted. The names of the members or substitutes notified by the clubs to the President and thus as elected Members of Parliament are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[The names of the members and replacement members and their functions are actively available on the Internet at www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament> Committees.]] [[17:03:02]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6743	This means we're in the 6th grade. Agenda item. The Committee consists of a total of 26 members who are elected by the National Council and the Federal Council each half. The 13 members and substitute members of the National Council are distributed to the clubs according to d’Hondt as follows: 5 members of the ÖVP, 3 members of the SPÖ, 2 members of FPÖ and Greens and 1 member of the NEOS. I have the following proposals: As members: from the ÖVP-Klub: Franz Leonhard Eßl, Tanja Graf, Mag. Andreas Hanger, Peter Haubner and Christoph Stark ; from the SPÖ Club: Mag.a Karin Greiner, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag.a Selma Yildirim ; of the liberal club: Walter Rauch, Mag. Harald Stefan ; from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler, Mag.a Nina Tomaselli ; from the NEOS Club: Dipl.-Ing. in Karin double farmer. As replacement members: from the ÖVP-Klub: Angela Baumgartner, Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss, MBA, Mag. Friedrich Ofenauer, Johann Singer, Dr. Christian Stocker ; from the SPÖ Club: Mag.a Ruth Becher, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Ing. Markus Vogl ; from the FPÖ Club: Christian Hafenecker, MA, Mag. Gerald Hauser; from the Green Club: Dr. In Astrid Rössler, Mag. Dr. Jakob Schwarz, BA; from the NEOS Club: Michael Bernhard. These are to be chosen. You have now heard the proposals. I ask whether there is any objection to these proposals. - That's not the case. That is what we are going to get to the vote. I would ask you, if you will give your approval to these proposals, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. This choice has also been made. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:05:40]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7022	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 4 and 5 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will read the corresponding parts: ‘TO point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the Main Committee shall be [...] fixed at 23. (Then the ÖVP Club has 9 members, the SPÖ Club 5 members, the FPÖ Club 4 members, the Green Club 3 members and the NEOS Club 2 members.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the ÖVP Club: May. Michael Hammer Peter Haubner Elisabeth Köstinger Sebastian Kurz Dr Reinhold Lopatka May. Wolfgang Sobotka May. Michaela Steinacker Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser August Woeinger From the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures Kai Jan Krainer May. Andrea Kuntzl May. Jörg Leichtfried Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc From the FPÖ Club: Dr Dagmar Belakovich Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch Ing. Norbert Hofer Herbert Kickl From the Green Club: Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic May. Werner Kogler Sigrid Maurer, BA From the NEOS Club: May. Beate Meinl-Risinger, MES Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA To-do point 5: Election of permanent committees (Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee, Rules of Procedure Committee) After consulting the Presidential Conference, there is agreement to elect the following committees: Incompatibilities Committee, Immunities Committee, Budget Committee and Rules of Procedure Committee This is [...] accepted. A number of 23 members and replacement members are proposed for the Budget Committee and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 9 members and replacement members SPÖ each 5 members and replacement members FPÖ per 4 members and replacement members Greens per 3 members and replacement members NEOS per 2 members and replacement members This is [...] accepted. ==References====External links== To appoint replacement members of the committees, which are thus valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members are given in the Stenographic Protocol. A number of 13 members and replacement members are proposed for the Incompatibilities Committee and the Immunity Committee. Accordingly,: ÖVP per 5 members and replacement members SPÖ per 3 members and replacement members FPÖ per 2 members and replacement members Greens per 2 members and replacement members NEOS per 1 member and replacement member This is [...] accepted. ==References====External links== To appoint replacement members of the committees, which are thus valid in accordance with § 32 para. 1 GOG as elected. The names of these Members shall be entered in the Stenographical Protocol.’ I now ask you whether there are objections to the version or content of these parts of the Official Protocol. – If this is not the case, these parts of the Official Protocol shall apply in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[17:09:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-10-23-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7287	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 1/A(E) to 37/A have been tabled. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5:10 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
