ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5438	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate you very much on 74. Parliament called on the Council to adopt a common position on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the I should like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and welcome the spectators in front of the television sets. The meeting was opened. The Official Protocols of 70 and 71. Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 April 2019 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. First of all, I'd like Clubobfrau Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger again very warmly welcome us and congratulate her and the whole family on the birth of her daughter. - I'm glad you're back. [[General condolences.]] Putting family and profession under a hat is possible – you prove it. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Thomas Drozdaund Dietmar Keck. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5491	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellor's Office has informed about the representation of members of the Federal Government of the following: Foreign Minister Dr. Karin Kneissl is appointed by the Federal Minister for Transport Ing. Norbert Hofer. I can announce that ORF 2 will transfer the meeting by 1 p.m. ORF III will be broadcast by 7.15 p.m. and then, as last tested with good reference, broadcast online in the TV library. A photographer will also be photographing for the Parliamentary Directorate today. I should like to speak at the outset of Klubobmann Leichtfried for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5543	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is about the treatment of §§90 and 91 of our Rules of Procedure by the Federal Government; I would like to ask a question to our President or also an suggestion. You remember that some members of the Federal Government were in the United Arab Emirates and left there a rather dubious guest present, a Lipizzan. There have then been a number of questions, and as usual these requests have been answered relatively superficially, badly and empty of contents. – I believe that this would have been enough, Mr President, for you to take action against this approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In concrete terms, this response was made by the Federal Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Agriculture and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. But now, Mr President, a journalist has not been relaxed and researched, and has come out that in these responses the untruth has apparently been deliberately said. Mr President, this is a disdain and a disdain both for this House and for the public, which is simply not to be accepted. This is not the case, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Zadić.]] This is an indication of something that is really worrying, an indication that in this government one lacks: A proponent and character – this is missing from this government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President, I now ask you: On the other hand, have you done something or are you planning to do something? I appeal to you, Mr President. They are the President of the National Council, the second highest representative of this country. As President, take your responsibility and finally do something against the futility of this federal government on this question, Mr President. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5613	Are there any other words? – Mr Klubobmann Wöginger on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5637	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a Déjà-vu every time: At the beginning of the meeting, something will be distorted, mostly by the SPÖ. Mr Leichtfried, you have the parliamentary right to request a question. This is for you as a SPÖ, as a party. Why Make You don't use this question discussion, then you can put these questions there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] The member of the government will come. Why Make It is a debate on the Rules of Procedure, which is completely unnecessary – just to suit anyone here. This is the only thing you can do in the opposition: Here with dirt to throw yourself and not to use the rights that you are entitled to at the end of the day. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kollross and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] Take the Rules of Procedure which will allow you to do so. Make an enquiry and miss out on it You have these inconsistencies with this Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5682	On the Rules of Procedure: Club-wife Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5712	Mr President. Yes, of course, the SPÖ would also be unaware to hold a short debate here, but I would like to say something about it now, especially on the statements made by Mr Klubobmann's Wöginger: We already have a problem here, when we see that, within the framework of Parliamentary Interpollation Law, we have less answers than citizens about the mandatory information law. I am pleased when we move towards a state that is fully transparent, perhaps also towards an information freedom law that generally enables citizens to control the administration, to look into the executive, but as Parliament, we have a problem if, as it were, we are getting less information in the framework of our parliamentary interoperability law and control law. I would simply ask you, on behalf of my group, as President, to put this issue at the top of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5742	Klubobmann Rosenkranz has referred to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5766	Mr President. I also have a speech on the Rules of Procedure. What is important in the Rules of Procedure is always where Parliament is meeting, and I have a question to ask you, because of the statements made by Mr Klubobmann Leichtfried: Are we in Parliament's elusive district in the Hofburg or in the Burgtheater?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5820	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, may I reply briefly? – I will answer this question again in the next presidential, and I would have expected that we might have discussed this in the last presidential term. In addition: The President is not here for the content assessment, you know, but there are the necessary parliamentary rights, and I think we should discuss this in the presidential – I am willing to do so – or then use all other means. [[09:13:40]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5842	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Government ignores species mortality and climate crisis – with symbolic policies to punish billions” First of all, Mr Zinggl. He knows 10 minutes of speaking time is available to him. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5869	Mr President. Good morning! Let's start with a quote from the Austrian vice chancellor! On the question of what the government is doing against the climate disaster, the Austrian vice-channer last December said in the “Standard”: “To the extent that man can influence the climate is an open question.” This may be a rare ever-increasing Lappsus from the FPÖ, but anyone who is still considering whether they may choose the FPÖ in the European elections is one thing here: The FPÖ Members regularly vote against requests to improve our climate in the European Parliament! [[Abg. Smoking: That's not true! That's not true!]] They have done so against the Paris climate targets, they have done so against the reduction of CO2, and they did so only in March of this year at more stringent limit values for cars. The ÖVP is much more correct and correct on the way, occasionally also has slippers, especially in comments – if, for example, I think of a comment by the oberg’s Scheiten Professor Taschner – i.e. only g’scheit, not oberg’scheit – who writes ironically in a comment: [[Abg. Zarits: “Oberg’scheit”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: This is taken back!]] [[Call the ÖVP: So really!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] It is said that the CO2 is responsible for the greenhouse effect, it is supposed to make glacier disappear, it is supposed to increase sea level. - Quote. Mr. Tashner – is he here at all? I don't see him right now; no matter what you're going to do to him. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Mr. Tashner, 80 percent of greenhouse gases are produced by CO2 emissions. That can be measured. And it is also measured that 250 billion tons of glacier ice melt every year – 250 billion tons a year. This can be measured and calculated and measured that the sea level increases by 3.5 millimeters each year. Only it can be calculated – and this has been done by the University of Fribourg – that we will probably no longer get fresh water from the glaciers from 2050 on. This will not be the case with Mr Taschner, because at this point he will probably not live again, just as I am not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] But the children who will then be grown will ask themselves: Who has chosen the FPÖ in view of these facts? Who believed Professor Taschner? The scientific findings, ladies and gentlemen, are as secure as they have never been in the face of this threatening disaster. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] One thing is clear: We are dealing here with one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, and if we do not act very fast, very precise, incisive and uncompromisingly, we will leave our children a cloak – at least not a world that can be described as worth living. Some governments in Europe have heard this. In fact, in recent years, CO2 emissions have fallen slightly – far too little, that is clear, but after all. In Austria, however, they have risen. Eight European countries have insisted that the measures are too few and propose a tougher approach, but Austria is of course not there. The Netherlands, for example, is devoting everything that causes high emissions. Sweden has decided on very precise exit scenarios from CO2 emissions for industry, and Switzerland pays a bonus every year to all citizens who behave more climate friendly than the average. Austria also does something, Austria knocks words and says: Everything will be fine, and it will be precisely those countries that are now operating and reducing emissions, because of the necessary emission certificates purchases, that will have to pay high billions – very soon – of course, which will be made out of taxpayers' money. In addition, the damage we are already reporting due to climate change: Hail, floods, dryness, drought, avalanches. This is currently EUR 1 billion in the year. In 2050 – a study carried out on behalf of the government's Climate and Energy Fund – this will already be EUR 9 billion, in addition to a similar amount for certificates purchases. This money, ladies and gentlemen, can easily be said, would be better invested in measures that are now being taken – all the funds that could be available to us now but not used. Ms. Minister – Ms. Minister? – we need no announcements and no promises. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: (lifting up the palms) Yes!]] Since 1985, the Ministry of the Environment has been run by VP ministers, and these ministers have announced a 13 percent reduction in CO2 emissions for 2012. The fact is that emissions in Austria increased by 3 percent. Or: For ten years, the Ministry has promised that the rivers will be cleaned again, which are in a wretched state. The Court of Auditors has noted in the recent Court of Auditors' report that nothing has been done or nothing has been done. 60 percent of our rivers are unhealthy and not in ecological balance. Austria is missing another objective of the European Directive, and additional fines of hundreds of millions of euros, which could, of course, now be used to prevent these penalties. In the meantime, the plant and animal world has also collapsed. Art die is of course a problem worldwide – we know that – but in Austria it is above-averagely marked. For example, the University of Soil Culture has seen a 70 percent drop in vertebrates since 1990 – 70 percent fewer vertebrates in Austria since 1990! – and only in the last 13 years there have been around a third of the birds in our fields. The reason for this is another disaster: the decline of insects and plants. We know that three out of four insects that existed in 1980 no longer exist; that is, we have a sword of three quarters of the population. The plants look similar: While on average twenty different flowers have blossomed on a meadow 30 years ago, they are now only two more. Why is that so? – There is also a reason for this: because we systematically destroy the habitats of plants and animals by means of stupid incitement. Austria is Europe's champion in emphasising, we seal – traffic routes, parking –, we build in no way. Whatever's free somewhere, it'll be submerged. In this respect, too, an infringement procedure against Austria is under way, and there is a risk that there will be a year-by-year penalty to the extent of high million amounts, which could already be used better. Or: Since the ÖVP leads the Ministry of the Environment, it is promised that the Federal Forests will be reforested against avalanches. This would have been relatively cheap 30 years ago, but now artificial barriers have to be created that cost a hundred times what natural avalanche protection would cost. Your environmental strategy, Mrs Minister, you know that very well, is just an attempt to calm down the population. You may even be able to do this sometime, and the environmental conditions themselves do not change; you know that. You know that you've done too little, and because you know that you're doing too little, it's not responsible; and if you don't know that, it's simple and simply naïve.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e5991	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6006	Radical structural measures – Mr President, that is my final sentence – would be necessary, that is even on your ministry's homepage, but who do you want to say what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6033	I can welcome the students of the vocational school for construction in Vienna quite cordially to us at the Hohenhaus. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Building is also a topic here. I also welcome the students of the Bundesrealgymnasium Villach St. Martin. Welcome to the High House! [[General condolences.]] Mrs Köstinger has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6073	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all: Thank you very much for the topic of this current hour and for the opportunity to debate the very important issues of biodiversity and, above all, climate protection. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me start first with a good news: Mr Zinggl – I believe we have held a lot of plenary debates on this issue in the past – has been talking several times about the rise in greenhouse gas emissions in Austria in particular in 2017. – This has been the case since 2015, so within three years the greenhouse gas emissions in Austria have been rebuilt. The target path would have been another: Already in 2015, 2016 and 2017, Austria should have reduced emissions in a massive way. The fact that this is not the case is mainly due to the areas of transport and buildings, partly due to weather conditions, but of course the corresponding economic growth was also a factor. As the Federal Government, as the first measure, when we got into office, we started – especially I in my department – to work out our #mission 2030, our climate and energy strategy, and have already implemented measures accordingly from the day one, and, Mr Zinggl, I would like to tell you once again, have now also been forecast by Eurostat that CO2 emissions will be reduced for the first time since 2018. That is really clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann:... cold winter!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We do not have the detailed figures yet, these are only presented in January of the following year, but: In 2018, CO2 emissions fell by 1.1 percent. From the path that has gone up permanently – again over 3 percent in 2017 – we are now, 2018, at minus 1.1 percent. Are we where we have to go? - No, I don't. Did we make a trend change? - Yes. [[Cheerfulness of Members Friedl and Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know that this is particularly positive in other areas. There is a second index where our work – abroad – is very positive, which is the global energy transition in-dex of the World Economic Forum. We are now in sixth place among 115 countries, and this is the task for us to continue in this direction. I am particularly pleased that this is also said in this circle: We succeeded in this, although economic growth in particular in 2018 was still a very, very high one. You know: Climate protection is a central concern of this Federal Government, so we are working on the measures of the #mission 2030. By 2030, 100 percent of electricity is to come from renewable energy. We are currently preparing the Renewable Development Act, which is primarily intended to give priority to wind, solar, hydropower, biomass and thus to bring out all fossil energy sources in the final consequence. I really hope for your support, because always to be against it and to say that everything is too little, that is all too slow, that is all too late, is also not a political concept that is sustainable. I invite you to support us, especially in expanding the renewables. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A second issue was also raised very clearly: We see that, due to climate change, the efforts that each Member State has to make in Europe, nuclear energy is once again renaissing. Nuclear energy and nuclear power must not be calculated on climate measures and greenhouse gas balances – clearly, please! I think it is still underestimated what is going on in Europe in this sector. Nuclear energy is not climate neutral, and nuclear energy is not safe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In Mochovce, less than 200 kilometres from Vienna, the reactor blocks three and four will go to the grid this year. We have had worrying Whistleblower reports that the safety level of the new plants cannot be achieved, it is about serious security failures. We as the Federal Government have already adopted a Council of Ministers decision. We are working accordingly at all political and legal levels to prevent the commissioning and the ans-nets of this nuclear power plant. We called the IAEA and asked that it support us and carry out an independent review. I also set up appropriate initiatives in the context of a meeting of the German-speaking Environment Ministers, which took place a few weeks ago. Luxembourg supports us in this fight, it would be great if it were Germany too. But I think it'll take a little while for Germany to make this turn. We really want to bring in a movement for more climate protection, for more renewable energies without nuclear power. Mr Zinggl, because you have also mentioned the long-term strategy and various initiatives: Austria – and you will recognize this when you read the #mission 2030 – is clearly committed to the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. This means: all fossils out, the renewables produce pure and climate neutrality! If you are leading countries like France today, please also say that the energy mix consists of 70 percent nuclear power. If you look away today, then the course will be put in the direction of a fatal future, namely that we are far from being able to have a nuclear power-free Europe in the future. All these states that are now building up these initiatives are not prepared to think about a scenario that sets at 100 percent renewable energy – and that is wrong! [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Donmez.]] On the second subject, ladies and gentlemen, The UN reports, which we have on the subject of species deaths, on the really massive loss of biodiversity, are terrifying and really dramatic. A million species are threatened with extinction. There are, of course, different factors that fuel and favour: Whether it is – of course! – agricultural productivity is or are it different climate conditions, all this has really led to massive species deaths in recent decades. Scientists call the big causes. Above all, the main causes, which have also been worked out by scientists, are the loss of primeval forests, the overfishing of the seas, the changed landscapes, favoured by climate change, cultivation, disintegrating of the areas, but above all also pollution by plastic, by fine dust and also the inhaled species that bring new diseases. We feel many causes here in Austria too. However, we have already put in place a lot of measures in our areas. An example is the reduction of plastic. I already know that Austria and Europe are not the main contaminants of the world's oceans, but we can create the technologies here that contribute to solutions in other countries, on other continents. We also have a contribution to make ourselves and want to save some 60 000 tonnes of plastic on packaging material by 2025. Our biodiversity strategy contains many areas of action. We have just been conducting two major studies to assess the impact of our measures on tagfalters, locusts and birds. There is another major study on plant protection products. Austria is committed to the preservation of pollinators at all levels. We support, for example, the implementation of the European Union's initiative for pollinators and have also joined the global Coalition of the Willing on Pollinators initiative within the United Nations. But we work mainly with the federal states. Nature conservation is in Austria federal competence. We want to put in place appropriate measures in this regard, together with the federal states, which really work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, climate protection is an existential issue, especially for agriculture and forestry. Agriculture, rural family farms in Austria are the first to feel the impact of climate change. They are also the first to come into real existence-threatening situations if climate change continues and if we do not take measures to adapt. I should like to point out once again that we in Austria are currently struggling with an unprecedented amount of shade – favoured by the Borkenkäfer, who is particularly angry in the north, but also in the south of Austria. We have incredible production losses in sugar production in Austria due to the soot infestation. The growing area for sugar beet has fallen by 10,000 hectares in recent years. Pestilence is enormous. But it should be said clearly: Whoever puts agriculture as a sole scapegoat for everything has not understood anything and, above all, makes sure that the rural family farms in Austria are even more pressured that others then produce to lower standards and then import it back to Austria. That's not the way we're going. We strongly insist that we continue to support our sustainable family businesses in Austria and give them measures as part of the solution. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Over 80 percent of our farms participate in the Öpul, the Austrian agricultural environment programme. They have been putting in place comprehensive measures for the protection of insects, for the protection of soil for decades – and this is really incomparable throughout Europe. Flowering areas are being laid, crop production is implemented, plant protection products are saved and landscape elements are preserved. In addition, the foundation of the Humus is, above all, a very important area, which we also want to know more about in the common agricultural policy through the next reform. We invest 266 million euros in these environmental measures and thus ensure habitats for numerous species of animals and plants in the local agricultural landscape. That is exactly the way we want to continue – in our intensive production areas as well as in the mountain area, in the disadvantaged area, where the traditional forms of management are developing diverse and diverse cultural landscapes. Ladies and gentlemen! We are really facing huge challenges. We have now also tried to introduce steering effects with the tax reform, to tax CO2 emissions more specifically on new cars, to provide real incentives to switch to low-emission mobility. We face great challenges, ladies and gentlemen, and I would ask that, in all the differences of opinion, we work together specifically on this subject, where we can support each other, because everything that is extinct is irrevocable. We have a very great responsibility in this respect, especially as regards our next generation. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6153	From now on, a speaking time limit of 5 minutes applies per speaker. You know that. The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6178	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks for the current hour, climate change and biodiversity are always precarious topics and therefore always up-to-date. We are also discussing the UN World Biodiversity Report, in which more than 132 countries have presented their reports and their assessment of biodiversity since 2005. The report shows dramatism. According to the report, biodiversity has declined. The causes are diverse – we have already heard – they range from climate change, the spread of non-territorial, invasive species that endanger habitats and ecosystems, to ever more intensive land use and the deforestation of forests. Please refer not only to Austria: It is important to pay attention to this worldwide. It needs common solutions, everyone can ultimately make their contribution to them. I do not think any simplifications are necessary, there are no simple answers in this regard. We need to anchor biodiversity in all social and political realities, and the issue must become an integral part, among other things, of building plans, business models or support measures. However, the government is active – They accuse the government of inactivity –: Minister Rupprechter has already commissioned and implemented a biodiversity strategy. Federal Minister Köstinger is just before the completion of the Old Load Rehabilitation Act. As the area of surface recycling and regeneration has also been addressed: It is a waste management law in preparation, in which the ban on plastic is anchored, which goes in the direction of waste prevention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] We have drawn up the bioeconomic strategy for replacing fossils with renewable raw materials. The government has also developed the #mission 2030 together within a short time; it is a structured one. Conversion of our energy system is planned. With the Renewable Development Act, we will be presenting this year a draft law which does not need to hide a comparison in Europe with which we have strong impulses in this area. However, we need to be even stronger in the future, for example on housing, housing and the common agricultural policy of the European Union. The financial compensation should also ensure that communities are not competitive with one or another bidder and ultimately about business areas, but that they can jointly find solutions to protect areas. What do we mean by biodiversity? – This is not just about bees and insects, the subject is much wider. biodiversity is the diversity of all organisms and ecosystems worldwide. All of this has taken a look at the study. I would like to give an example here, which also concerns us in Austria. There is the active substance Imidacloprid – which already sounds malignant and chemical – in farming, which is one of the neo-notinoids. This active substance we have defyed and banished from the field, which I do not think is very targeting, because it was very effective and resource-saving. But he still exists as a biocid in the tick and flea bands for dogs and cats. That means we're not consistent. We need to think more systemicly. The biodiversity, biodiversity and biodiversity are not as easy to grasp, and even the targets for this are not as clear as climate change, for example, with the 2-degree objective. We need to think about it and develop products in our production world that ultimately have a lower environmental impact. Agriculture and forestry will also set themselves sustainability targets and define them accordingly. Above all, it is also a question – and I really ask you not to take this as a contradiction – of achieving higher yields because the world population is growing. We need this for the supply and at the same time for a more gentle use of resources in order to promote the protection of biodiversity. The biodiversity is based on the supply of food, the supply of clean water and the supply of clean air. It is also what makes our ecosystem fit for climate change. We must not forget that the population of the world – in Asia, in Africa – is growing rapidly, and this needs to be provided, and that will also take advantage of the country. It would be negligent to operate extensively under the common agricultural policy of the European Union and to outsource our production needs to other continents instead of seeing biotechnology as an opportunity to strengthen research and innovation, to take advantage of opportunities and thus to advance European production. You must not always paint the horror of modern agriculture here. If we want biodiversity, we must act accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6236	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6251	I come to the conclusion: It is important to tear up the windows and conduct the dialogue, but not – as perhaps some friend of the house-occupiers – to tear out the windows. A politically motivated debate about the EU election is probably not suitable for an objective dialogue on climate change. It needs sustainability in the hands of the owner and no return to the Communist country!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6293	Mr Leichfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6314	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen who listen and watch here as always! One thing is clear: Our planet is in a deep climate crisis. We are currently on the direct road to the heat of our climate. This has massive effects all over the world: Parts of our earth are destroyed by eddy storms, uninhabitable by drought, and entire island states are threatened to disappear under sea level. This is now reality at a heating of 1 degree. What effects a 2 or 3 degrees heating would have on the earth cannot be imagined. In Austria too, we see daily the effects of the climate crisis: The glaciers disappear, and thus parts of winter tourism. [[Abg. Schimanek: We have 30 centimetres of snow at home!]] Our farmers are confronted with too long drought periods, with sudden colds, heavy rains and hails, strawberry harvests are destroyed and – yes! – even the South Styrian Welschriesling is at risk. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] We have 2 degrees too much in Austria. In just nine years we had two centuries of high water on the Danube, each year in agriculture a damage of hundreds of million euros, and the low-level ski resorts – which hurts me especially – are shut down by series. The global climate calculates that we have to halve global emissions in just eleven years to remain below 1.5 degrees of climate warming, anything else, valued ladies and gentlemen, would be disastrous. [[Abg. Schimanek: We have 30 centimetres of snow at home!]] In Europe, we must implement the climate change measures planned for the last three decades in just a decade. Austria has for decades had international and European obligations to reduce greenhouse gases. But sad fact is that emissions are still rising and far above the value of 1990. The Minister for the Environment has confirmed a few days ago that the failure to achieve climate objectives will cost us 6 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately this Federal Government does not do anything about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The climate crisis really doesn't matter to Turquoise-Blue. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You haven't done anything for decades!]] At the end of the day, all Austrians will have to take advantage of this failure – and we certainly do not want to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, our government and also the Mrs. Federal Minister, who dedicatedly deals with her phone, stand for a policy that protects not the people but the big corporations of this world. [[Abg. Ecker: How always!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: She learned from the short!]] [[Interference by Federal Minister Köstinger]] It stands for a policy that continues to allow toxic sprays, which are dangerous to people and the environment, which are dangerous to our farmers, who are not only at risk of health, but also dependent on the large global chemical groups. This is not the meaning of sustainable agriculture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few days ago, an alarming report by the United Nations showed the extent of species deaths. Millions of species of animals and plants are threatened by extinction and many are threatened to disappear in the coming years. We are responsible for this – and above all those who support the fact that large agricultural and chemical groups can continue to dissuade. It is high time that we finally implement measures in Austria to protect our climate and our environment. The Federal Government should start with species dying and finally ban sprays such as glycosate in agriculture, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These substances endanger people, these substances kill insects – and we are thus indebted to this climate crisis. All experts agree that ecologisation of the tax system is also necessary. But what happened? – Nothing has happened, it was a tax reform for the big corporations, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hauser: Ah, such a fool!]] 1.5 billion euros for large corporations, and 55 million euros for ecologisation, that is your worth, and so it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] You're going to the climate disaster at Tempo 140, that's your policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6478	Mr Walter Rauch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6503	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The call for call says a lot: “Who is to take this light peace seriously?” – Mr Leichtfried was also a member of the last German government and has had many opportunities to take action in this regard. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That says more about the level of the caller!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I understand, of course, that you are not sitting on the government bank, but on the other hand, but you should also be careful that this child-moving is serious and that should be filled with content, Mr Leichfried. [[Abg. Wookers: Child weighting!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Zinggl, thank you for this current hour, so we can also present what we are doing in the field of environmental and climate protection. I know that it is difficult for you to take a foothold in this European election and get a theme leadership in this election campaign. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] This is difficult for you, because of course you fish with the greens in the same pond. We have seen what the Greens are doing in the environmental and transport sectors in Vienna. The only measure in Vienna is jams and dusts, nothing else, and this rejects the Federal Government to a hundred percent. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What do you want? – You simply want to introduce a CO2 tax, a city moot, increase the spray costs, disband the pendulum fee and, of course, burden the commutors in this area. We do not want to do that, nor does this federal government do, nor will you find a partner in us; we will not support it. Researchers also confirm that this CO2 tax is not sustainable and climate problems in this country will not be solved and cannot be solved. They want to burden people alone. What do we want? . We are making a policy with a sense of mind, and we are living this approach from this federal government, so that environmental protection and climate policy are made with the citizens and not against the citizens in this area. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] Many researchers have already confirmed that this CO2 tax is not the final conclusion and cannot lead to the goal in this area. We have put in place appropriate measures on the part of this Federal Government in the announced and presented tax reform under the #mission 2030, namely the CO2 slots – I refer to them – to tax the SUVs higher and to make vehicles with less CO2 emissions cheaper. The electricity tax in the field of renewable energies is lost, hydrogen and biogas become tax-free, as are e-bikes for companies and also electric motorcycles. This is a total investment volume of 55 million euros. This was the first step in this field in the #mission 2030. That means: Put in place tax incentives and measures which, in the final effect, give people the opportunity to contribute and invest them. – This must be our approach for the coming years. The Federal Minister has already mentioned nuclear power. This is a clear commitment from this Federal Government: It must no longer be supported at European level. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We reject nuclear power by a hundred percent and, of course, try to convince our neighbours to get out of nuclear power and to take our Austrian path. Why? – We rely on 100 percent of renewable energy, which is, of course, also an economic engine for us, because with the technology we have launched, we have the opportunity to become market leaders in research and development in Europe in these areas. I am convinced that we are on a very, very good way to use renewable energy in Austria as an economic engine and thus drive our climate and energy targets forward. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] An appeal in your direction Please take the climate and environmental policy along the way positively and not negatively, as you always do! [[towards NOW]] Let us also announce it to people positively and not only negatively, as you do! And please stop burdening, punishing and blocking!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6618	Mr Bernhard is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6639	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I listened very carefully to the debate and tried to hear the arguments that this Federal Government is so inactive in the field of biodiversity protection and climate policy. I have also tried to find out what the cause of this is that a FPÖ, of which one knows that it believes in fake news more than in science, believes in Chemtrails more than in actual evidence, and who also believes that climate change is not man made, represents such a view. [[Abg. Deimek: It's once again... Gruber is somehow incompetent, doesn't know!]] – Do not excite, come out and talk afterwards! The question, however, is another: Why is ÖVP participating? Why is she confused with her government partner? Why is there no difference? I think there are two very essential reasons for this. The first point is: You just didn't understand the subject. We are talking about this – the World Biodiversity Council, which presented its report last week, has worked out this, by tens of scientists from 132 countries – that of eight million species, one million species will disappear within the next few decades – almost unstoppable. This does not happen somewhere at the equator, it is not in further distance, but that concerns from Burgenland to Vorarlberg also our nature. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the field of climate policy: Climate change and its impact is nothing as far as the distance is concerned – and even then we have a moral responsibility – but it concerns us at our doorstep. It concerns agriculture – all the extreme weather events and droughts – and it concerns water supply in Europe; we use our groundwater to a very small extent, but it will not help us if Austria still has water, but the countries around it no longer. The non-acting of ÖVP and FPÖ helps to destabilise states and societies that are not very stable anyway. By our inactivity, by our lack of time, we ensure that, especially in coastal regions and in regions in the global south, there are major migration movements, because if there is nothing left, if there is no basis for living there, then man has to go somewhere else; that is completely understandable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All this is not understood by ÖVP and FPÖ. I do not even make a big accusation to the FPÖ because it was consistent – you were against the climate agreement, you believe that science is not a science, you believe, climate change is not made by people; that is what you want, that is your business – but the ÖVP, which has been in the government for decades and has always put the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for the Environment, does nothing! [[Abg. Deimek: So again: Gruber is stupid, doesn't know, Bernhard knows all this!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm asking myself: It would be fatal, it would be negligent, but it is even the opposite! Let's see what's going to be done: A Minister of Finance, who is obviously only Minister of Finance and does not look beyond the edge of his plate, fails to ecologize the tax system! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We NEOS have presented a CO2 tax model that is non-profit-making, which would relieve the economy as well as the people in our country to the same extent, but this is of course not an issue for the ÖVP – and none for the FPÖ. That 3 500 economists and 27 Nobel laureates demand such a CO2 tax does not matter to you, of course, because you have no courage. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Wöginger and Minzig.]] You have no idea, and you have no courage! The Minister of Transport requires 140 km/h on test routes because he doesn't want to understand – or simply doesn't understand – the same, by the way, who also made a request for Chemtrails – that the emissions of emissions also grow exponentially with a speed increase. This has been proved, that is not a question of faith, but that is knowledge, but that is ignored and one makes these test lines. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And an Environment Minister, who is in office for two years soon, swerves about – forgiveness, with all due respect. I've been listening to you. They do what ÖVP and FPÖ do every day: You're scared and you're not talking about anything. If we are talking about species dying in our country, when we are talking about measures for climate policy and climate change, then you are talking about nuclear power! It is not true, it is simply false that we cannot do anything in Austria when it comes to protecting our species. [[Abg. Wooger: Bad sleep, huh?]] They lie in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – I say so to this extent, because it is detectable. [[Abg. New builder: But now it's enough!]] [[Oh, call at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It's detectable. It can be read in the minutes. We have asked why Austria was not in favour of the ambitious nine Member States, who have voted in favour of more climate change policy, and the Minister has said in the Environment Committee that this is a support for the nuclear lobby. Five of the nine states have no nuclear power in their country – five out of nine have none! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: What about the others?]] All you do is hide the inactivity because you do not achieve your own goals. We already know today that we have set the objectives we have set ourselves for 2020 -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6778	Final word, and please take back the word “lying”!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6804	It is proven that it is verifiable to read in the Minutes that the Minister has said the untruth. I take back the word “lying ” and claim that it has said the untruth. [[No call and other calls to the FPÖ.]] My final word: Stop swerving! Sale Don't give us your environmental flagships, because what you see as a flagship is at best a treadboat! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6848	Mrs Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6869	Mr President. High house! Mrs Bundesminister, I have listened very attentively to you. They say that the forecasts for CO2 emissions for 2018 are minus 1.1 percent, and are derived from a trend change. [[In the direction of Federal Minister Köstinger, with Abg. Jewellery beater says:]] It would be very kind of you, Mrs Minister, if you would also listen to me – what I am now saying is important – because this trend change does not exist. [[Abg. Wögerer: Do it anyway! Oh, my God!]] [[Federal Minister Köstinger nockt]] You know very well, Mrs. Minister, that this is not enough in accordance with the Climate Change Act to bring about a turnaround. - That's the first point. Second point: We have to look a little more closely at 2018, because in 2017/2018 we had a rather mild winter – the temperatures were 0.8 degrees below the average – and the winter 2018/2019 was known to be one of the mildest in the history of temperature measurement. [[Abg. Hörl:... the snow...!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: We have 30 centimetres of snow...!]] This, of course, has an impact on the development of CO2 emissions. Mrs Minister, please don't work with half-truths. They say climate protection is a central concern for you. Unfortunately, I am unable to recognize this so far. In the #mission 2030, they speak of climate neutrality, which is correct, and again and again of 100 percent electricity from renewable energy. But if we look not only at electricity, but at all in Austria - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6937	I'm asking the Ordinance to clear the gallery and interrupt the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6965	I will resume the interrupted sitting and give the floor to Mr Rossmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e6986	Thank you, Mr President. I was saying that with regard to climate neutrality, the Minister is always making distorted statements. It refers to 100 percent electricity from renewables, but never mentions that 67 percent of the total energy spent in Austria comes from oil, coal or gas, i.e. from fossil energy sources. So do you, Mrs. Minister, with the e-mobility package and the electric cars. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: No!]] As you say – at least at the latest debate – Austria would be the world champion in the re-admission of electric vehicles. [[Federal Minister Köstinger: No, I didn't say that!]] The share of electric vehicles is 0.4 per cent in Austria, Mrs Minister – I have done this in the Committee; Statistics Austria, please look! We note a total increase in the car stock in Austria, which goes far beyond the new registrations of electric cars. What you're doing in the framework of your policy is beautiful dyeing and nothing else. On the issue of nuclear energy: You accused me at the last committee meeting that I would be committed to making nuclear energy accountable for greenhouse gases. [[Interference of Federal Minister Köstinger.]] I really find this scandalous, Mrs. Minister! At a time when you were not yet in the world, I have been against the TKW Zwentendorf – you are the year 1978, I have looked at it, you have only come to the world after the referendum – so stay Please, by the truth! [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: This is not at all for the debate!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: I was also in Zwentendorf! I didn't see you!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition, today I will make a request for a fire risk nuclear power plant in Chmelnyzkyj in Ukraine. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the tax reform that you highlighted in your lecture: That's ridiculous what you're doing! These are ridiculous incentives, Mrs. Minister. You know exactly what we need: an eco-social tax reform that deserves the name. And if you, Mr Rauch, stand here and say that we want to increase taxes, we want to abolish the penalty, then that is wrong; that is simply and simply wrong. We want a non-profit tax reform. In other words, every euro that is lifted by eco-taxes flows back one to one to the private households – in the form of a climate bonus – or to the companies – through wage-side reductions. You, Mrs Minister, should take note of this, but at last the Federal Chancellor should also take note of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7082	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7097	That would be the appropriate measure, Mrs Minister, to avoid the threat of fines in billions. We do not always say no, Mrs Minister, we also have concepts, but you say no to them. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7124	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7146	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers! I would like to start by thanking the JETZT list. I believe that this is an issue, and it is nice to be able to talk about environmental and climate policy consciously at a current hour in addition to all the daily policies – the tax reform, all the major issues that we are now addressing, social security – and take time. That's a good thing. Unfortunately, it is so – and that is, as I find it, immensely a pity – that it will work once again as if instead of a meaningful common discourse we are maintaining here, government bashing, peasant bashing on the program. I think that's sad. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] I also think that these projects are absurd in that the quality criteria we have in Austria as regards the energy of the farmers are one of the highest in terms of farms. This report is alarming – not a question, it is an alarming report – only: We are talking about the biggest international challenge we have today as a young generation. I think we all agree in this. Environmentally destructive influences – CO2 – have no passport, know no limits. An example: German coal power plants are almost depreciated at the end of their life span. In Asia these are on average – on average! – only under ten years old. Thus, they continue to run for 35 to 40 years, making economic sense. The International Energy Agency has calculated that even if only the Chinese coal power plants – only those of China! – remained on the market – with which they will remain on the market – the rest of the world would have to emit zero CO2 so that no global warming would happen and the Paris goals would be met. CO2 does not have a passport, therefore it is necessary and correct if we jointly influence the United Nations with a loud voice at European level, however: We as a small country can work hard, but we alone cannot change the world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It says “stopping economic fetishism”. [[reading from one of the previously thrown leaflets from the gallery]] – This is particularly disturbing to me, because we have to assume that at what high level our companies have to act in consciousness, we have to act legally. If there are further conditions for the Austrian economy to migrate to other countries – many have production facilities in other countries – in which the standards are much lower, then that cannot be in our sense. That's absurd! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think that's absolutely the last thing we all want. I think we should be aware that our high standards are what we should implement at European level. The People's Party – and I would like to mention Josef Riegler in particular – has already taken the eco-social market economy as a forward-looking path 30 years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Today, our generation can see it as its task to continue this path, to think about it and to anchor it as action ceilings for all our actions. I think it's about raising consciousness at all levels. Mr Leichtfried, to what you said, for example, about tourism: Yes, it's important for tourism, but you told an untruth earlier. I just heard from a Styrian tourist that it was the best winter season of all time for the ski resorts. Of course, some ski area falls away, but it was the best season ever. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Back to two issues which I would like to take up briefly: transport as the biggest problem and the CO2 balance of households, of private habits. At noon, the buffet fraction is coming together again and the liver cheeses and the Frankfurters are getting into it: Everyone can do something. If you want this to be perhaps biological, ask if the regional products are! I think we have to make ourselves aware of what everyone can do. [[Inter-call of Klaus Uwe Abg. Feichtinger.]] Our standards are immensely high. As we say, how we drive – I drive an electric car – I think these are the topics that really count. I ask you that on such a subject as this one, not simply pure opportunism, according to the motto: How can you quickly cut the federal government over it? It is also true that certain things you say – with key figures, with taxes – are not true, that is calculated differently. I beg you: Let us all stick to this topic in the same boat! That's our generation, that's our common task. We see that across our party as well. We have to deal with this task. Let us stop rushing at the farmers, let us stop rushing to the Federal Government! To be heard as a small country, it now needs an shoulder closure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Every generation has its challenge, climate change is probably ours. Earth is what we all have in common, what we make of it. We only borrowed them from our children. I want my three children to know that your children and their children can still walk around together on colorful spring meadows and see different butterflies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7267	I welcome the students of the Friedrich-Schiller-Gymnasium from Preetz to our High House. [[General condolences.]] Mr Fichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7297	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli! The environmental policy of the Federal Government in Austria looks like this: The Environment Committee met a week ago, agenda: [[keeping the agenda up to date with a large red correction mark for withdrawal]] [[Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli: That's not what I'm saying!]] Debates of the European Parliament Templates by the Federal Government: null. Applications from the government groups: null. And in advance, the opposition groups have consciously agreed not to make any applications, since they are only postponed. – This is environmental policy in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] On the debate on Austrian climate policy: Mrs. Federal Minister, we have known since January 2019 that the CO2 emissions amounted to 51.7 million tonnes. Immediate protection measures are provided for in the Climate Change Act – we are still waiting for them today. The objectives by 2020, you have once again meant in the Environment Committee, will be able to be achieved with the credits from the previous years. But this does not change anything at all in the excess of the maximum quantity even in 2018. As you have previously meant that for 2018 there are already valid data that are likely to be 1.1 percent reduction, and have spoken of a trend reverse: Ms. Federal Minister, 2018 was the average hottest year since the beginning of the records, and the savings in the area of heating are also not neutralised by the summer air conditioning, as you said in the Environment Committee. A mild winter does not yet replace a climate policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even in the case of a 1.1 percent reduction, we will miss the targets under Climate Change Act for 2018 again, probably by 1.7 million tonnes. Another point: the species dying. Climate change, pollution, industrial agriculture are the main reasons for this. But Austria still has no national glyphosate ban. What is your ministry's contribution to this problem? Another study? Let's look at the international level: Mrs Bundesminister, what about the financing of international measures, for example the Green Climate Fund? That's where you're required. Or is Austria to join the number of non-payers, together with the USA under Donald Trump? At the EU Summit in Sibiu, there was a climate initiative of eight Member States, which jointly called for a declaration to make climate protection a key aspect of the EU strategy for the years 2019 to 2024. Why isn't Austria there? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The EU level will be instrumentalised by the Federal Government and also by the Federal Chancellor if failures are to be cast at national level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Exactly!]] Federal Chancellor Kurz now suddenly advocates European solutions in the fight against climate change: This can only be achieved jointly, and there is a need for global and European efforts. – Austria only needs to lean back and wait for the EU. Wasn't there something? Council Presidency second half of 2018? Austria would have had every opportunity to drive and advance the subject. You missed the opportunity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A lot has already been mentioned on the tax reform, but a volume of 55 million euros in total relation to the billions and only 1.5 billion euros in the KÖST is simply too little, Mrs Federal Minister. I would like to make one last point: They once again offered us cooperation in the Environment Committee – thank you very much for that. No 24 hours later, an invitation was issued by your ministry to a meeting of the National Climate Change Committee. July. I now ask the Members of the Government if they know what they are doing on 2 July. This is a plenary session of the National Council, during which we all have a duty of participation. Now I'm asking You're serious: Don't you know what's going on in your ministry? Conclusion: Mrs. Federal Minister, you're doing nothing sustainable and nothing sustainable!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7391	Mr Linder is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7413	Mr President. Minister! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the audience and at home! For me, of course, species deaths and climate crisis are to be illuminated from the perspective of agriculture as an agricultural speaker. Undoubtedly, we have lost very, very many micro-animal beings – vermins, vertebrates – because they have died out, they are no longer existent due to various developments. Unfortunately, the debt is very often given to agriculture. That is why it is important to me to point out that the causes are very diverse. I do not want to accuse anyone now, but just as Mr Jeitler-Cincelli has said, I believe that we should think a little bit about what everyone can do in their own field. Almost every one of us uses a lawn robot. In the past the flowers were left standing, which were the basis of life for microbes. Everyone fertilizes his lawn, fertilizes his flowers. Everyone uses – unfortunately God’s – weed salt to keep the fixed surfaces weedless. Everyone can make their contribution. No one has a compost pile anymore, no one leaves the piles in his garden left. This would also be the basis for the micro-bes in many, many areas. Light pollution: One of the biggest problems for the microbes is the issue of light pollution. For half the night, everyone lights his trees, his shrubs, his gardens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friedl.]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture has also contributed a great deal to this development. As a result of the changed forms of management, many things have been lost in biodiversity, but, ladies and gentlemen, we farmers have not begun this modified form of management from jux and tollery, which was simply an economic necessity. Farmers have tried to compensate for what we have lost in income or for additional costs with more intensive production. As long as the consumer is not willing to really spend more on organic products or even buy organic products, it will be very difficult to change this. [[Abg. Vogl: Who pays that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture nevertheless makes a very, very big contribution to the issue of species protection, insect protection. The entire landscape elements, trees, shrubs, hedges along the meadows that are preserved, the whole piles of stone, the stone bars are today the most important areas for micro-trailers, and I think agriculture is making a very big contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] Although the biodiversity areas are a major disadvantage for us in our management, they are an important area of life for micro-nitrogens. The prohibition of insect harmful toxins is also an important point. Ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced it ourselves this year: There has suddenly been a third of the potato harvest of last year broken, and we have had to introduce, for two months now, potatoes from Israel, from Egypt, of which no one knows how they were produced, and no one is thinking that these thousands of miles have to be shipped across the seas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] Another topic is glyphosate. Yes, the European Commission has extended the authorisation for five years, and that is why it is important to have a strong Europe, but even stronger national states, which can take such decisions in their own country. That is why it is also important to think in the EU election about who gives the vote and we liberals stand for a strong nation-state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Preiner and Mr Vogl.]] Another example in this area is the construction of game and avalanche. Meanwhile, a lot of money is invested in the ecological support of the construction projects. We ourselves have experienced in our community how quickly such a stream is repopulated by microbes. I think this is a good example of this coalition investing a lot of money in the ecological expansion of projects. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this coalition has really contributed very, very much to environmental protection. If today the list of mushrooms turns out here and says: The government only operates symbol politics!, then I remind you that you are on 30. Januarys this year voted against the Ecostrom Act – and that is policy on the damage of the environment and nature and not politics for them!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7500	Mrs Doppelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7521	Good morning, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! You all probably know this ancient Austrian answer formula when you meet someone on the street and ask: Hello, how are you? Then come back: Well, just like the others want to stop! Mrs Bundesminister, I think that is the problem right now. I think that's your problem right now. You know – and of course you have to recognise – in agriculture, and you also feel that you want to do something positive, but when it comes to big solutions, there is simply no one. There's going to be a brake and there's nothing going on. We are talking about environmental policy today, and in environmental policy we simply have to say quite clearly: He who brakes, loses! We lose biodiversity, we lose in climate protection, we have a climate crisis, we have a heat. These topics are – and that is just the fact – pushed back and forth, it is postponed, nothing happens. That is the very great criticism! Unfortunately, you can't do that. I don't understand why you don't position yourself differently and why you don't act differently. Austria would have all the possibilities, it's actually everything done. You could, if you did, be the sustainability rock minister – across all borders. Appreciately interested But you don't. I say it again: It'd be all done. For example, in agriculture – and the term agriculture has often fallen – we have the largest bioproduk The European Union's role in the The highest proportion of organically produced food is available here in Austria. We have a huge advantage due to the topography. We know that our energy supply can be largely covered by hydropower, and we have a huge potential for alternative energy forms, whether it be wind power, photovoltaics or biomass that has already been addressed. And we have consumers: In international comparison, one simply has to say that the Austrians are very environmentally conscious. This is going on with the separation of waste, there is a lot of what is much better in Austria than in the international comparison. So: It'd be all done. But what's it worth for us? What is useful to us if the political leadership is missing? That's just missing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It must be said that the Minister for the Environment seems to have something like a conscious disinterest towards environmental policy when it comes to specific issues. We have already mentioned it many times today, my colleague Michi Bernhard has said it: CO2 in traffic. It's just not going to be the subject, and if, there's some kind of rumble, as it's just called. There is still much, much more hot iron in environmental policy, one of which is green space cultivation. We all know that Austria is still the last – unfortunately world champion – in the cultivation of green spaces: 12 hectares every day, in a small country like Austria! When it comes to biodiversity, when it comes to biodiversity: We all know that this is the basis of life not only of insects, but of quite, very many species. 12 acres of land that go down every day! 12 hectares of land, which also goes down in agriculture, because it is partly fertile agricultural land, which is simply grown there. How do we explain this to people that we grow 12 hectares every day? Then, when heavy rain comes – I don't even want to talk about floods – and the soil can no longer absorb the water – no na net is also installed – this is a huge problem that is simply not put in the foreground here. Then you ask very specific questions: Mrs Umweltminister, what are you doing on this issue? Yes, that is country matter, and we have a positive effect on it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] Then you ask for a specific question, and I did this in the last hour and I asked: What is your solution for the cultivation, for this fruit that we do with the cultivation of green spaces? – Again: 12 hectares a day! Then what's going on? – thermal insulation! – Yes, thermal insulation is a great topic anyway. I mean, all this is not wrong, but you can't say: [[Interference by Federal Minister Köstinger]] This is the solution to the problem of surface cultivation! – This is not thermal insulation. I don't know if you're going to explain this to someone in Tyrol who lives in an alpine area, in a valley where everything is already built, and then you say: Yes, the solution is thermal insulation! - Great! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I don't think that's how it works, that's just not enough. I think that is clear to you, Mrs. Federal Minister. I don't think you know that. But the question I ask myself is: You don't want to do anything or you can't do anything? Is the pressure from any pressure groups, from others so big? I do not know, but then please be helped by the constructive forces in this government who are there and want to work together with you on environmental policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] In the interests of people, biodiversity and climate protection, it would be really important for us to work together, for it is – damn it – simply unfair to leave a broken planet behind to the next generations. That's exactly what we're heading for right now. I very much hope you don't want to. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7617	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7639	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Mrs. Minister! It has already been mentioned several times that only a few weeks ago the report of the Biodiversity Council has been presented; a report for which 400 of the best scientists in the world have compiled and summarized 15 000 studies over three years. Mrs Minister, this report should be known to you. They should also be aware that, since man's existence, nature has never gone as bad as it is today. Nor does the report leave any doubt in its facets. The last major species deaths were triggered by a meteorite impact at the time, and now it will be the actions of the people that lead to a similar impact and, as we have already heard today, will contribute to the next major species death. This is not a small matter, it is about millions of animals that will die forever. This is ethically offensive, yes, but we can do something about it, we should just put these measures into practice. This is about implementing more measures than the European Union wants us to take in addition to its own initiatives. It's about the basis of human nutrition, it's about clean air, it's about clean drinking water. It is simply all about ecosystem services – that includes everything that man uses to do in nature – to provide water, air, plants, fish, wood. It is also about not small the value of pollination by insects. We can do something to master this destruction of ecosystem services. The authors of the World Biodiversity Report also call for a very concrete measure, and this concrete measure would be to set aside environmentally harmful state subsidies accordingly and not to contribute to the active destruction of nature by means of means of taxation. I would like to give you an example of where such environmentally harmful subsidies come from, an example that makes them tangible. Imagine, you live in the Ukrainian village called Oljanyzja! In this village, subsidies from the European Development Bank amounting to half a billion dollars, sometimes from Austria, of money, was financed by a chicken factory; 1.5 million chickens per building, 220 million chickens a year, slaughtered after 30 to 40 days and exported to the whole world. Imagine, you are a citizen of this village and can no longer drink the water from your well because it is contaminated with nitrate, chicken, antibiotics and toxins! Imagine, you can't breathe the air anymore, as it's constantly smelling because of lost animals that end up on the edge of your village, falling there by weights, being carried to hundreds every day through the village! Imagine all these conditions make you sick, lead to rashes, you have health problems, you have problems breathing! All of this, all these developments do not have to be imagined by the inhabitants of this concrete village, because that is reality. Why is it relevant for us to think here about this example and to think it over? – Because the situation in this Ukrainian village is also brought about by Austria, by Austrian means, by the European Union and by subsidies and subsidies from the European Development Bank. [[Abg. Belakovich: These are the blessings of globalisation...!]] Yes, it also leads to losers in Austria. I would like to appeal to my predecessor Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli: You mentioned the health of your three children. Yes, I would also like to talk about the health of your three children, because they do not know what kind of chicken schnitzel they have on the plate if they do not consciously choose organic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] The consumer, when going to a local, does not know at the end of the day what kind of meat he is superior to, and whether he or his child may even have a chicken cut from this Ukrainian mass production. [[Congratulation with JETZT and the Abg. Friedl.]] Mrs Minister, take care of a proper labelling of exactly this food! Make sure that the Austrian population has a decision in this regard! And also contribute to the fact that, at European and, of course, at Austrian level, there is no further subsidisation of such activities. It is the Austrian consumer who must be in the focus, it is the Austrian environment, it is the air worldwide, it is the waters worldwide, it is health. At the end of this chain is also – because it has been created – the Austrian farmer, whom you remove from the ground under the feet with these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7679	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7695	This farmer cannot take up the competition against this subsidized mass production – and that is my final point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7722	Mrs Bißmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7740	Mr President. A nice morning, dear people in the hall and in front of the screens! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The climate crisis, the survival question of humanity: In Austria it begins at the Federal Chancellery. We do not have an entrepreneur at the top of Austria, but rather a neglecter in terms of climate protection. It is really a great mystery to me why our Federal Chancellor is so stubborn and vehemently opposed to seeing the potential created by the climate crisis, and to take advantage of the transformation to a green future as a huge opportunity. The facts speak for this and there is also a lot of moving – the youth, the economy and the church. The economy is definitely ready for climate protection. In 2018, hundreds of companies and corporations signed open letters to the governments of the world – including the Austrian government – with a clear call for more courage in climate protection. Among them are the Erste Bank, Canon, Magenta, Ikea, Expert, Philips, Rewe, Spar, Vaillant, Metro, Accenture, Allianz, Bloomberg, Carlsberg, Danfoss, Deutsche Post, Heineken, Schneider Electric, Unilever and many, many more. Bosch, the global industrial company with 400 locations worldwide, will be fully CO2-neutral as early as next year. Fridays for Future lets our young people go to the streets as a language tube of science; in part, they also carry out their actions here in Parliament. Even the church advocates climate protection. The climate cycle of our Pope Francis, “Laudato sì”, is a 200-page manifesto for ambitious climate protection in connection with the social question. Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, founder of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, speaks of a triangle of strength from youth, churches and science. Apart from these positive forces, the pressure on governments is becoming ever stronger. But why is our Federal Chancellor still not getting in the way? Is this because of the dependence on donors and lobbyists of some of the fewer corporations, which with a last effort once again emerge like dinosaurs shortly before extinction, in order to defend an obsolete system of power, economics and energy? Are the dependencies really that big? Is our Federal Chancellor really inability to do so? I wonder why Sebastian Kurz doesn't influence the OMV, because this energy group is half owned by the state of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] By the way, the Danish energy group EarthStat has lived up to this, completely repelling the fossil business sector and is now one of the largest investors in renewable energy projects worldwide. Yes, of course, there is already courage and the ability to think in great contexts, because climate change is profound system change. It is not about CO2, it is about the greatest sociocultural and economic transformation of humanity since the first industrial revolution. Mrs. Minister, however, I see you as an ally in this exciting and important transformation process towards a post-growth economy, a sustainable economy. They themselves spoke last Sunday about the eco-social market economy in the “ZIB”. To my predecessor Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli: Yes, it was Josef Riegler, the ex-ÖVP vice chancellor, who influenced the concept of the eco-social market economy. However, I personally asked him whether Austria was already an eco-social market economy in his eyes, and he denied it on the grounds that it still needs a profound eco-social tax reform. What I liked about your interview, Mrs. Minister: They have for the first time – at least in my perception – clearly spoken about the responsibility that the government carries out in terms of climate protection. Do you sometimes feel that you are fighting against windmills with this Federal Chancellor and with this Minister of Transport – your colleague who introduces speed 140 on motorways? But be sure, Mrs. Minister: Behind you is a broad, strong alliance. With every millimeter you lean further out of the window than the government climate course actually allows you, you will be supported by the entire progressive climate science, by the representatives of economics, by a large part of the economy, by Zig thousands of students and students of the Fridays-for-Future movement, by the environmental NGOs, the entire renewable energy industry, the bioeconomics, the bioeconomics sector and at all from the rapidly growing sustainability industry, from Arnold Schwarzenegger to our Federal President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7799	The final sentence, please! Mr Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Martha Bißmann Together you could make the #mission 2030 a worldwide mission. [[Continue]] Let us take it up, politicians of the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7828	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e7849	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have just mentioned myself briefly, because I really feel the words of Mr Bernhard, who has accused me of lying, are an absolute monsterity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Then you can only say true things!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have deliberately taken up this issue in my introductory statement. You have asked the Committee why we have not joined this current initiative, and I have actually explained to you relatively in detail what the background is. The aim of this initiative, which France is striving to achieve, has already been integrated nationally into our climate and energy strategy, and the objective itself is climate neutrality by 2050. [[Call the NEOS: That's just not true! No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: This is a cheap distraction maneuver, Mrs. Minister!]] [[Abg. Loacker:... what Rossmann says!]] We are currently discussing different scenarios at European level, how we achieve this objective. Not all countries of the European Union are even in line with the objective of Austria. However, we do not want the red carpet to be rolled out again under the cover of the climate protection of nuclear power in Europe, and that was also a reason. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If you pull out a single sentence, I would really ask that you be so decent to allow the whole debate. I have said that with one reason why we have not signed this was because countries refuse to discuss or anchor over a 100 percent renewable energy scenario. We do not want nuclear power to be counted in achieving climate objectives. That's a direction dispute we've got right now. I would ask you once again not to underestimate this, but I will not let you insult me and not say that I would have lied to the committee about this initiative. You have claimed that there are four out of eight countries; there are five countries – I do not deny you now – which are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and Spain. What we are currently experiencing very well in this debate is that the duration of nuclear power plants should be extended, that they should be expanded and that is the same. We will not join this – not now and not in the future – but we will do everything we can to produce our climate neutrality, and we will also support it at European level, with the clear claim to obtain 100 percent electricity from renewable energy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: These are half-truths you give of yourself! Half-truths! Quarterly truths! Fake News Permanent!]] Allow me also to say why this is so annoying to me: We are very, very familiar with all these debates. This surprises me, especially from the NEOS, because I have actually perceived you as a constructive opposition party in recent months. I am not surprised at the SPÖ because there are policies and abuses on the agenda. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: What are you doing?]] [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] The NEOS, however, have taken advantage of it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)]] [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Rosary: 9.05 a.m., today's debate! Objections and abuses!]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Vogl.]] I am very glad to tell you, too, that this election campaign is over again, because I hope that it will again bring a bit of level and normality into the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8038	Mr Efgani Dönmez is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8060	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! Yes, it would be nice if the election campaign were over, because then we might be able to get a bit closer to the topics again. Let's look at global air traffic: This is responsible for 2 percent of the emissions. Let's see the global cement production: It accounts for 4 percent of global emissions. Let us look at the construction sector, the construction industry: This sector is responsible for 10 percent of emissions. No man who has yet a spark of reason in his head will go here and say: People should no longer be able to visit their relatives, no longer be able to fly on vacation! We're not supposed to build apartments and houses anymore! – No, this is not the right way, and it will not solve the problem we are facing – that is homemade and homemade. The EU citizen averages 11.6 tonnes of CO2 per year. methane, nitrogen oxides and the ozone are included. Climate change is a problem of modern civilization, which is undisputed. Climate change is historically not the result of the misbehaviour of individuals, but of a global economy which, from its inner logic, must increase its production year after year. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, this economic growth has been based on the combustion of fossil energy in all sectors of the economy. If climate change is a consequence of the economic system, there is a need for policy decisions that radically change this system. The greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel combustion – such as coal, oil, gas, petrol and diesel – account for almost 80 million tonnes per year of CO2 emissions in Austria. Each tonne of CO2, which man brings into the atmosphere, melts 3 square meters of ice in the Arctic. We should and must act, even before and not only when the water is up to our necks, and therefore I also see the valued Mrs Minister as an ally. As regards our economic location, our excellent companies, which already have a lot of know-how in the field of renewable energies, I also see our role as politicians in transferring this know-how and this technology, which we have, to other countries, so that they do not make the same mistakes as we do. Our task is to create the framework conditions here. I have said at this point several times that we need to get rid of the thinking of this development aid policy, which is actually creating more problems than solving problems. We have to go. on economic partnerships at a level. Especially in Upper Austria, we have excellent companies that are active in the field of eco-energy, which have tangible cooperations with the Kepler University of Linz, with the University of Applied Sciences of Upper Austria in Wels in the field of eco- and environmental technology. It is important that we use even more funds for research and development so that we can export this know-how, these technologies to other countries, too, so that we can create jobs there. A colleague said it earlier: If we tighten the framework conditions for our economy, for companies and put on screws, one thing will happen, namely that they move their production to other countries – where there are hardly any measures and conditions – and jobs will also migrate abroad. I don't think that's in the interest of anyone here. In this sense, Mrs Minister, thank you very much for your extraordinary commitment to the expansion and further financing of nuclear power. This is really a very pressing issue that burns many, many people under the nails. – Thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8108	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I thank Mrs Köstinger very much. [[10:50:13]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8132	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: ‘Order, good life perspective and home mind: A new Treaty for the Future of Europe I welcome the Members of the European Parliament Othmar Karas, Evelyn Regner and Harald Vilimsky. I welcome our Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media Gernot Blümel, and I can give the floor to the first person to speak, Mrs Minzig. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8163	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In my opinion, the European Union is a community of values. Their goals – freedom, peace and, above all, prosperity – have not yet lost anything in validity. However, those who reject the European Union refuse global reality, because since our accession to the EU in 1995/1996, the world around us has changed dramatically. You can't stop it, you don't want to stop it, but we have to make an active contribution. Austria has benefited greatly from this European Union, but it is also permitted to look to the future. Therefore, we will be committed to further developing this European Union, on the one hand, to a modern organisational structure and, on the other, to a theme focusing on the major current challenges that need to be addressed. On the organisational structure: Yes, every Community needs a modern order with clear rules and sanctions. The Lisbon Treaty originates from the Year 2007 – a time before the debt crisis, before the financial crisis, before the migration crisis, before the climate crisis and before the Brexit chaos. It is certainly time to think about what we learn from this past and how we can put Europe's house on a new foundation. Therefore: Those who risk the euro with a responsible debt policy, those who allow illegal migration and tow and those who call into question our code of values freedom, the rule of law and democracy will have to face sanctions in the future. The motto of this federal government is the sense of the house's understanding of the office, and this must also be taken into account at the European level. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Living subsidiarity, that is, making decisions at those levels where they are best for people, secures a Europe close to citizens. To reduce institutions and introduce laws with due dates, this reduces the overarching bureaucracy that makes us create in so many cases, especially in our small-structured economy and agriculture. It not only needs a new order, but also, as already mentioned, new thematic orientations. Let us forget the infatuation of detail, promote personal responsibility in all areas of life and focus on what we cannot solve alone as a single country, which is a prerequisite for a good life perspective! What are the major themes of the future? – Of course, our competitiveness, the competitiveness of Austria, the competitiveness of Europe. The political alpha wolves of this world, from Putin to Trump to Xi Jinping, have no great interest in an economically strong Europe, nor do we want to reach a sandwich position between Made in China and Silicon Valley. Let's fight for red tape. Let us fight for research and development efforts as well as the unbureaucratic rapid implementation of the results into the economy and fight for the mobilization of skilled workers, but also for successful trade partnerships! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] One of these reasonable trade partnerships, for which I have been working for a very long time, is the EU agreement with Canada, and I am grateful to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for signing this agreement now. This agreement has been in force since 21.9.2017 – and we have recorded an export increase of 24.4 percent, which is especially beneficial for our small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture and the economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A major issue is security. Let us safeguard our external borders so that we can have freedom and open borders again in the European Union, and fight corruption and organised crime, because these too do not stop outside the borders! Major issues that have already been addressed in the Presidency are migration and development cooperation. We know: Africa is growing by 50 million inhabitants per year. We also know: If we do not do anything on the ground, do not create a basis of living, then this migration will continue towards Europe – where else?- Oh, my God! The EU-Africa Summit was a very successful start to coordinated development cooperation. Education and investment by European companies in local infrastructure ensure the livelihood of many people in Africa. The climate protection and renewable energies mentioned today are also topics that cannot be addressed by a country alone. I am opposed to the industrial bashing I have already heard today, because it needs exactly this Research and industry cooperation. Who else should implement the results of research in this area?- Oh, my God! This can only be done by industry! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It also needs the creation of an energy union. We must offer other countries the opportunity to leave coal and nuclear power. Yeah, it's a lot to do. In Upper Austria we live the motto: Keep it up and take it! I am committed to a self-confident, strong Europe, which is closed outside and has a place for the diversity of our regions, for a Europe that focuses on major topics, reduces the infatuation of detail and thus integrates itself into the hearts of the citizens of Europe. Estimated audiences, take Please take part in the election! I would be pleased to receive your support: Check out ÖVP and write tiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8260	I should like once again, if it has failed, to warmly welcome the Members of the European Parliament to Karas, Regner and Vilimsky in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I can also warmly welcome the students of the HTL Pinkafeld here in the Hohe Haus. Welcome to us! [[General condolences.]] Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been mentioned. I can give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear guests at the gallery, welcome to a very important topic from my point of view, namely: What about our common European Union? The future of this Union will now be much debated before the European elections. The public focus on this issue is now more on what is good, but it has been on the tapet again and again in recent years, and I would like to address it a little bit. The debate on the future of the European Union has been going on for years, if not all the time. Already at the Bratislava Summit in September 2016, the Heads of State and Government decided to work on a new vision for the common Europe. You can certainly remember the white paper by Jean-Claude Juncker, in which he presented himself in five scenarios, in which direction the Union can move forward. This also includes a roadmap – which does not seem to be interested in the opposition because no one is looking after it; then I would like to explain it to the other Members and, of course, to the audiences at the gallery. [[SPÖ Members are interviewed in the banking series]] It is about the fact that this White Paper has also made it clear what process steps the Union can take. President Donald Tusk has set up a summit last week in Romania, in Sibiu, in which exactly this should be discussed: the future of the Union with concrete proposals to put it into a strategic agenda to be presented in June. The Austrian Chancellor brought in the proposals of the Federal Government, what a new EU Treaty might look like, and laid down three principles: Order for Europe – that is, the rules that exist – should be complied with; In other words, the rules that we no longer need, which we no longer apply, should be abolished – and we should have the right to this euro-ropa and to ourselves, that prosperity is long-term secured and that Europe remains a global player. We want to implement all of this in the future strategic agenda so that it becomes part of the future debate process. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] These proposals are actually not new, even though they are currently being said again and again, because Austria has taken part in this discussion from the outset and also during the Presidency of the Council, which we held in the second half of last year, has worked intensively on proposals. In this respect, I should like to give an example of the subsidiarity conference that took place in Vorarlberg. We decided scenario 4 of the White Paper in the Federal Government as a goal and said: ‘Less but more efficient’. That is to say, the Union should be able to take back in the interests that national states could better regulate, and to act more strongly in those areas where a common Europe is needed. The results of the Bregenz Conference have also been generally noted. But that also means that we want to reduce the number of laws in Europe in the next few years. We say: Why not a thousand laws less? – This calls for one of the top candidates of the European parties, and I can remember that many have said that this is not going to happen, unless too much, and have asked how it should work. This reminded me very much of the situation when we started working in this Federal Government and said that we also want to deregulate in Austria, we also want to abolish laws in Austria that are no longer needed. Many have also said that all this is not going to be difficult. What did we do? We abolished two and a half thousand legislation last year. [[Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Schellhorn:Death laws!]] – This is how you do things that you announce, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's not true!]] I have met many who have meant that it is not possible. After that, I didn't meet anyone who said: It wasn't good we needed somethin'! – It is true, and we want to do so at European level. There are also three more specific points in which we are in favour of amendments: For example, there is a need for clear sanctions against those States that carry out excessive debt policies. We now know what it can lead to States in a common monetary union being constantly in debt. It's not a cavalier crime, it needs clear sanctions. You can't spend more than you take. There are consequences, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the same way, it cannot be said that States are pursuing a policy that is: Illegal migrants are simply wont! – This is actually a structural breach of justice. That can't be either, it needs consequences. Even if there are violations of the rule of law, this is not a cavalier offence. In general, we currently have two Article 7 procedures, one against Hungary, one against Poland. As President of this Council during our Presidency, it was up to us to move forward, and we did. However, we have also noticed how toothless it can sometimes be and how important it would be to involve independent courts in the assessment of violations of the rule of law, so that it will also have clear consequences. The basic principle should be: Rules that exist are to be applied – and if you do not apply them, they should be abolished. This is a policy with a sense of mind, including at European level, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This half-year we are celebrating three anniversarys which are very relevant to the history of the European Union and thus also to the history of Austria: 30 years of the case of the Iron Curtain, 25 years of EU referendum and thus the accession of Austria to the Union and 15 years of enlargement to the East; in 2004 Austria finally returned from the edge to the middle of the common continent. We have, of course, asked the question of what this membership has actually brought; we have set up our own empirical investigation. In all areas where we have requested, it is clear that Austria has benefited greatly from this membership at all levels. The economic location is as attractive as never. Direct investment from the other Member States of the European Union has increased tenfold since its membership. The export nation of Austria is strong as never before, the exports of Austria within the European Union have quadrupled and tripled outside the Union. Exports and investment are known to lead to growth and secure jobs, so this is a good way that we want to go further, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In order for this success story to be rewritten, not everything as it is. The world is changing, everything is developing further, so we also need to develop our common Union. The German Chancellor's proposals are designed to continue to hold this common Europe strong and successful for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8382	We are going into the debate and I would draw attention to the fact that all speakers in this debate have a speaking time of 5 minutes. First of all, Mr Othmar Karas, member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8414	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, watch and listen to us today! The European project is a successful project. We must not, however, reject it. The project is not complete, and we should therefore make every effort to mobilise the middle, the majority in the middle, the majority of the citizens of Austria and the European Union, so that we can turn the future back into a friend and not turn left or right, but look forward with both eyes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria and the European Union are interdependent, and the future of Austria is closely linked to the future of the European Union. It is important that we be part of this community. It is important that we all feel jointly responsible for the future of Austria and the European Union. Citizenship in Austria also requires European citizenship. Austria and Europe belong together. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we are finally aware that we face new challenges that we cannot deal with debt allocations, but only with courage and political will to implement the existing Treaty 100%, to benefit from the scope of the existing Treaty, to eliminate the blockades and to overcome borders. We face major challenges, the challenge of technological and technical development, that of demographic change and climate change, and we are recording a shift in political power from the West towards Asia. Does anyone in this room believe that we are globalisation, that we are digitising, that we are reducing energy consumption, that we are dealing with climate change, that we are dealing with the new security-policy threats, that we are able to deal with the refugee issues alone? - I don't think so. [[Abg. Noll: You have to ask your coalition partner!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We will only be able to deal with this in a new and determined partnership in Austria and in the European Union. We will only be able to find solutions together, we do not want to become the ball of power in Russia, America, China and India. Europe needs a new co-operation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am very glad that the Federal Chancellor has also said that we need the courage to finally accept a change in the Treaty where the existing rules and the existing Treaties agree on our ability to act. So far, it has always said: Don't touch! Has no majority! Let's not do it! – We need to cut off the old pots, we want to go boldly into the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the future should not take place without citizens, so I would suggest that we, as parliamentarians, also contribute to the fact that civil forums on the future of Europe are taking place in all the communities of our country, that we make this future debate our own concern, and that we combine the opinions of the citizens in a reform treaty, which we will vote in a Europe-wide majority of states, majority of citizens, at the latest with the next European Parliamentary election. This would create a start, that would take courage in the future, and that would mobilize the middle, want to shape the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8520	Next, Mr Magistrate. Andreas Schiederzu word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8545	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TVs! Ladies and gentlemen! How the future of Europe and the European Union will look forward is open, not only because the future itself is open and we are called upon to shape it, but because the danger is never so great that this European agreement is also broken. The rights and right-wing extremities in Europe have joined forces with these Milanan bands, in which Mrs Le Pen, the AfD from Germany, Mr Salvini and also the FPÖ from Austria want to be in there, where people are sitting, who have political programmes, who say that the European Parliament is to be broken, that the euro is a mistake and that the European Union should be destroyed. [[Abg. Stefan:... Bazillus...!]] I think that's a serious mistake. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is at least as dangerous for the Austrian Chancellor to stand up and say that it is high time that we finally free ourselves from this unbearable premeditation by the European Union. – What is this view of Europe? What is this, then, for a view of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany's own work, a Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany who travels to Brussels and decides for himself to come back and say: I've been going there myself and tied myself up, please help me out again!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] That's not just scurry, ladies and gentlemen. Just as it is ridiculous and bizarre, it is politically dangerous because it is water on the mills of those European rights and right-wing extremities that Europe only wants to destroy. What is it really about the European Union? What do we really need people in Europe from this European Union? – I would also like to say quite clearly to you: The Socialists in Europe will be happy to agree to a Treaty amendment, but only under two conditions, namely only if Europe finally becomes social, and only if Europe is finally strengthened more democratically and the European Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does Europe need? First, Europe must become social, second, Europe must become more democratic, and third, Europe must become more sustainable. What we demand is a social agreement for Europe: Minimum wages in every single European country, because every worker and every employee has the right to be exploited, not by wage and social dumping, but fairly paid for work. Same pay for the same job in the same place, that's our demand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also need what we need if the economy is slowing down, and if the world economy is slowing down a bit, an investment package: an investment package that creates jobs that also gives people employment that invests in infrastructure, so that we can also cope with climate change by, for example, extending a rapid train system between all European capitals, and also a European housing offensive, because many people in Europe can no longer afford to live, and we have to respond to it through better and cheaper housing for all people in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Living is a fundamental right and must not be sacrificed to the profit of the corporations. From: What we need in Europe is a privatisation stop, because we must not see how water is sold in individual cities, we must not see how the municipal apartments are sold in individual cities, and we must not see how they are sold in individual cities of public transport and the railways. [[Abg. Belakovich:... from Vienna!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What did that always bring? – The corporations have become richer, and people have received worse services and services. Therefore, before we discuss what has just been discussed here, I think it is necessary to say one thing quite clearly: The European elections are also about how we make Europe social, how we make it fairer. We have a 122 pages thick program instead of empty dictionaries. [[keeping a copy of the electoral programme up to date]] [[Abg. Belakovich: No one reads that!]] – Yes, no one reads this because reading has not yet arrived in your party, but with us people already read it because they want to work on the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker]] That is why I would like to end by asking everyone who is watching us today: If you are concerned about European democracy, if you are concerned about democracy in Europe, then you will live up to it and go and vote, because Europe's democracy has deserved to be elected and strengthened! [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That is the best answer to the despair that spreads the extremes of the right.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8693	The next member of the European Parliament is Harald Vilimsky on behalf of the European Parliament. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8717	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me refer very briefly to my previous speaker's point of view, who has presented his political thoughts here in a burlesque way! [[Abg. Belakovich: Now tell him how it works!]] Almost you would have the impression that a political Kasperliad would be organized here. [[Abg. Steger: This is usually the case if...!]] Mr Schieder, stop talking to stupidity, extremism and gangs! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8763	Mr President, in the Austrian Parliament we do not use the word stupid. I'd ask you to take it back.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8785	Then I correct, Madam President, this parliamentaryly unworthy kind of performance presented by you. [[Abg. Lightness: President in!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also call you, Mr Schieder, not as left-wing extremists and as members of a band. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If you felt addressed?- Oh, my God!]] The only extreme with you, Mr Schieder, is your despair, because the voters are running away and because your concepts of socialism and the solutions you offer are no longer in the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] If you want to talk about corporations, yes, we'll talk about corporations! Let us talk about the fact that Brigitte Ederer has landed at the Aiderbichl estate of the Wiener SPÖ, namely at Siemens, as well as a woman Wehsely who is with Siemens. – This is not an unknown for you! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ as well as applause with the ÖVP.]] There's no problem with corporations. Neither companies nor the proximity to Russia are a problem for you if your outgoing, refugee – I do not know what word is best here – Mr. Kern now operates in a group of 60,000 euros for the Russians. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] There's no problem with corporations. - So far, so good. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the real issue that we could have devoted ourselves to today, if not such burlesque performances, is the question of a treaty, and I am particularly pleased that someone in this Republic, namely the head of the Austrian People's Party, at once two weeks before the election says what I have said over the years: that we need a mess, that we need a question that the bureaucracy is overwhelming, that we should re-enact the rules between Austria and the European Union and bring back more skills for ourselves. [[Call the SPÖ: Well, finally!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not understand at all why only anyone sitting here in the House can be opposed because a shift of competences would in truth give you and all of us more of a choice for Austria, without questioning a cooperation where it is useful. However, I must make an accusation with all due regard to the fact that the cooperation between us and you at the Austrian level works well, already in the direction of the Austrian People's Party: At the level of international politics, it doesn't really work, there it is indiscriminate. This is also seen by the fact that a candidate who spoke in front of me has not lost a word here about shattering and defiling and relocation of competences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] I know him, and with all the appreciation of his person: In the past five years, there has been no meeting in which Othmar Karas would not have voted for more competences and for more EU and more Brussels. [[Abg. Wittmann: You have a good relationship!]] [[Abg. Rosary: There is no room for you!]] They also play in the wrong team as far as the Austrian People's Party is concerned, because the President of the European People's Party and President of the Commission Weber are just the opposite of what has now been said. [[Call:Oh, love must be beautiful]] Weber is the chief centralist, Weber is a person who has said – please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to take note of the whole thing – he prefers to work with Communists and with Greens rather than with a party like ours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Now the Lopi is already...!]] Mr Schieder, that might be something for you if he is looking for cooperation from the ideological red half. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say now a few days, ten days before the election: It is important to choose the original and not the copy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I take it from you that you mean it honestly – that's not a question at all – but with all appreciation it is the wrong team. It is Othmar Karas as the lead candidate of the wrong man, it is Manfred Weber as the designed Commission President of the wrong man. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We as FPÖ have been saying for years something that has now become a majority. We look forward to this, and therefore – in the direction of the spectators, also at home – to: Please, trust the original and not those who start fishing in other voters two weeks before the election!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8963	Your speaking time has been exhausted. The final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e8989	Madam President, I am looking forward to the further debate. [[Abg. Lightenness: President in it means that!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9030	Next speaker: Mrs Claudia Gamon. - You have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9054	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Vilimsky, for you have said a true sentence, and I can only reflect it a little changed: Please choose neither the original nor the copy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is now quite clear and clear that ÖVP and FPÖ can no longer be distinguished in their European political views. [[New condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That's actually true! Good speech!]] The electorate has heard this again now, today, as well as the last days when the proposals came from the Federal Chancellor: “regulatory insanity”, “bureaucratique” -, “bureaucratium corset”, “formification” - I hardly get such words out. [[Abg. Lightness: home mind!]] In any case, it reminds us very much of the FPÖ, and it is the question whether the FPÖ was still very en vogue in its best or in its worst times, when the EU bashing was still very en vogue in the 1990s. A quote from the last few days shows very clearly the attitude that the ÖVP is now taking: “Instead of constantly demanding more money, the EU should stop telling people more and more how to live.” Who said that? Federal Chancellor Kurz or H.-C. Strache? Surprisingly, it was – or not surprisingly, depending on how long you have looked at it more closely – ÖVP leader Sebastian Kurz, in a manner to Strache, Le Pen or Mr. Vilimsky, an AfDler – depending on who you want to take –; unlike H.-C. not with the cross, but with the schnitzel in hand, angry at Brussels. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is being blamed on Europe, and then there is a populist demand. Isn't that embarrassing to you, dear ÖVP? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Do you really need that? Do you really need to give the copy of the FPÖ here? How can you call yourself a pro-European party, because from which side has now come applause in the last few days? – From the Leave campaign in the UK, the Brexit campaign, which has weathered: ‘Austria’s Chancellor’s ‘lays into the ‘madness’ of Brussels’. That's where they found his friends. In the UK too, the beginning of the end was: with a populist campaign, free from truths, free from facts, but strong in populist statements, strong in populist sentences that were preached every day, such as: Brussels takes responsibility for itself, Brussels is ahead of us. But how is that really? What's really true? – Of the five reform proposals that have come about with regard to EU reform, we are really only sure in a proposal that there will be a change in the Treaty at all, and that would be the relocation of the seat of the EU Parliament, which, by the way, everyone agrees on this – except one, and we may also get it. [[Abg. Neubauer: You want to abolish Austria!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] But what is already significant: Why did these proposals not actually come during the Presidency? Let us look at what has happened to European policy proposals during the Presidency of the Council: the reduction of family support for our Union citizens, the non-participation of the UN-Migration Pact and the continuation of border controls at Austrian borders – three anti-European demands put on the table by the ÖDP at that time. And now it comes with its reforms and proposals on how to change the EU Treaty. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then these abstruse numbers: a thousand regulations, without being able to say exactly what is meant. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] The Pommes! How would you like to? Your pommes? With a little anticancer acrylamide spread over it? I believe that the citizens of the Union would like to know the safety of any country in the European Union that they go to a local and order a piece of pommes, it does not contain any carcinogenic substances. – I would say that the European Union has provided for its citizens. If you want to change this – please, please, but at your own risk! In any case, populism and the small one do not bring us any further here, because that is not what Mr Karas has called for here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, he is right to say that without a common Europe, we cannot be able to have a positive impact on the great challenges of this time with a European manuscript. We do not get all of this, but we will certainly not get there with this policy of this federal government. The small one must finally have an end, the young generation in Europe demands another European Union: It wants a European Union that looks forward positively, which is committed to it and which is also ready to make decisions. The reforms that are necessary for this are quite different, and they certainly have nothing to do with populist demands – from premeditation and so on. I am looking forward to seeing these thousand proposals, of which 28 000 will then be regulations in all Member States, in the worst case too, different everywhere – the internal market is broken. Congratulations to the black and blue Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9184	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Bruno Rossmannzu word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9208	Madam President. So on Sunday, the chancellor said, this kind of insanity must be ended, and in this context he called for the removal of a thousand legal matrices. In doing so, he took a deep, very deep grip on the populism box. One example was the so-called Schnitzel/Pommes regulation. The former does not exist, as we know; there he went on glue to a April joke. [[Abg. Lightness: That's the house mind!]] Domestic sense or expertise: What's more important? - I think the expert. And if he had approached this question with a little expertise, he would have had to consider the consequences that could have the removal of a thousand laws. The removal of the Pommes Regulation is shortening standards, and this is a completely different example from what happened in Austria, Minister Blümel, to which you refer: In Austria, the standards were not right to be standardised, deleted, but in Austria, dead law was deleted. That's a big difference. [[Complementary of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] If there are to be a thousand legal matrices to be removed here, then this Federal Chancellor and also you, Minister, because you support this, are very likely to be at the foundations of the internal market, and there is no need for house-understanding to address the matter with expertise. [[Congratulations with JETZT and with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] What's bad about those speech texts that the Chancellor used: Regulatory insanity? – Instead of distance himself from these right-wing nationalist and right-wing populist anti-Europeans à la Pen, Salvini, Orbán, Vilimsky, Strache and many others, he takes over their text. This makes him very far to the right and makes himself an anti-European – and is also in danger of being swallowed by the extreme right. A very renowned magazine, “Foreign Policy”, made a wonderful analysis two days ago “Conservatism’s Miracle Child [[keeping an expression of the article in question up to date]] Is Getting Swallowed by the Far-Right’. So: The conservative child of miracle threatens to be swallowed by the extreme right. – Yes, this danger is indeed present, and it is high time that the chancellor and you, Minister, distance themselves from this right-wing nationalist, right-wing populist speech. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am now going to skip the question of the integration of the European Union and the advance control of the Austrian population by the EU, and we could say a lot about this because there is a game that is well known here. In Brussels, all of this is decided by Austrian politicians and delegates, and in Austria, if it does not fit, it will be defyed. This is one of the reasons why the EU scepticism is so great in our country. But: What does the Chancellor have to say about the future of the European Union and about the reform of the Treaties? - Yeah, really little. Here, too, he first gets back into the populist box: Reduction of the European Commission – boah, that is the most important problem we have to solve. Yes, the two-seat problem – ancient, not new – needs to be addressed, no question. But where are the great challenges facing the chancellor in his statements? - Yes, I'm sorry, I can't find her. They are exhausted in higher penalties, they are exhausted in greater competitiveness, but there are more important and bigger challenges that we have to face. Where is the demand for a climate union with its own financial resources by means of a CO2 tax on solving the climate crisis? – The chancellor refuses to do so. Where are the plans to reduce the loss of income of the losers of globalisation, one of the main reasons that led to Brexit in the UK? – The chancellor does not answer that. For example, the answer would be uniform minimum wages in the European Union. But where is the call for a social union to create social security in the country, for example by creating European unemployment insurance? - This one calls the chancellor an utopia. – This is ridiculous, with a little political will, we are making it easy in the European Union! If we had approached monetary union in this way in the European Union, we would never have done so. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] And where – I come to the end immediately – does the fight against tax dumping and the like remain? Where is a tax union with wealth taxes? This could make the Federal Chancellor a name for himself as a European politician. So he threatens to be swallowed by the extreme right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9273	Next word reported: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9297	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! An election campaign is always a time when one describes Europe's position where we can also see our attitude towards Europe, and I can see that global power struggles are ongoing. [[Abg. Scherak: Yes, you can see that!]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] This has an economic dimension and this also has a security dimension. We are faced with the phenomenon of Brexit, and I note that there are many uncertainties, disputes in the UK, and this results in social outrages, including political and economic outrages. However, we see in the surveys that the confidence of citizens in this common Europe is increasing, and that makes me confident. But the citizens also want reforms and they want unity in stormy times – this is what this government stands for and the Austrian People's Party stands for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like briefly to address an agricultural issue: the common agricultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] On the one hand, the common agricultural policy is designed to ensure healthy food in sufficient quality and in sufficient quantity in Europe. And I am now telling you quite openly, from the left half of the empire come in this election campaign a lot of diffamations – diffamations that roll over us farmers and shout to heaven. I can really tell you on the spot that you should be a little moderate, especially the green party, in what you write on your election posters. [[Abg. Lightenness: The green party is not there at all!]] We need uniform rules in the common agricultural policy and we do not need national singles. [[Abg. Lightenness: Do you like vilimsky or do you like what he said?]] And we need greater financial resources because the European Commission's current proposal is completely inadequate and an income component for us farmers is really in danger. Let me briefly talk about the internal market and also about external trade. In my opinion, in the European Commission's cooperation, these are the two most important projects: This is about jobs and prosperity. It is about the opportunities for youth and it is about the opportunities for the talents of the future. But we also need to look at Africa and the Middle East, not only for security policy and migration, but also for better conditions. It will not help us alms, but it will need economic cooperation at an eye to create better living conditions there. But the election campaign is always the time when we talk a little about the content, the philosophy, the identity: Where do I come from, where do I feel at home? I know many people from around me, we are at home in a community, in a village, we are at home in a federal country, in a region, we are home in Austria and proud of it, and we are home in Europe. And I say to you out of complete conviction: I believe that these geographical units and also these political units, which belong to them, have a place next to each other and that we can be proud to be at home in Austria, in a strong Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] People want a slender Europe – a slender Europe when it comes to red tape, when it comes to economy, agriculture, security, protection of the external borders or opportunities for young people. And we will send our candidates, the Austrian People's Party, with a strong voice to Europe to represent our interests there. Mr Vilimsky, one word to you shortly: Choosing and standing up for someone always has something to do with trust. And I have confidence in this federal government that we are on the right track. But I have mainly confidence in Othmar Karas, Karo Edtstadler, Angelikack, Simone Schmiedtbauer, Lukas Mandl and our Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. For this reason, I believe that the Austrian People's Party is the best choice for Europe. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9389	Reported as follows: Ms. Club Chairman Dr.in Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9410	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I am actually grateful to the ÖVP for this current European hour, because this debate finally gives the opportunity to show just a few days before this important direction decision, where social democracy stands here and where the turquoise blue block stands. [[Call the ÖVP: Well, finally!]] And I say quite deliberately block, because it is a block because these government parties – on the one hand, the Turkish ÖVP and on the other hand the FPÖ – cannot be distinguished from each other in their rhetoric or in their content or in their European policy orientation. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] Yes, first of all, this is worrying, which is a statement that, as a pro-European, we are more concerned than with concern, and second of all, it is a dangerous perspective that is beginning here. The Turkish ÖVP has become a party that has taken over right content, right rhetoric, right language. [[Abg. Little: Not careful, gal?]] The EU election campaign has shown this very clearly in recent days and weeks: The ÖVP is no longer a European party! [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and JETZT.]] The ÖVP received a different leadership almost two years ago, another leadership that gave the party a different color and apparently also a fundamental other European orientation. [[Abg. Haubner: You like a weaker, gal?]] The Turkish ÖVP, which, within two years, has been led by a pro-European party in the spirit of an Alois Mock, who together with the then German Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky – you know – into the EU in the 1990s, has become a party from a European party that has become a party in its polemics, in its rhetoric Europe, a rhetoric that has been known to date – we have heard it today – only by the Le Pens, the Straches, the Orbáns and the Salvinis. Sebastian Kurz speaks of Vormundung, regulatory fool, bureaucracy corset. Here, the EU is always serving the ÖVP as a hitchnabe in the election campaign – that is really a new facet of the Turks – for a quick headline in the election campaign; an election campaign that is apparently being fought against Europe, and not against other political competitors, for which elections are actually there. Today, the Chancellor would have had the opportunity to do what a German Chancellor should actually do, what he is responsible for, and what his task is to explain to the people in this country: what rules in the European Union – in order to make living together better – need to be what there is to be a protectionable person in the Union. People would have deserved that, but instead, he comes averse and almost polemic with the Pommes regulation. However, this is nothing but the EU's attempt to promote European health protection for all, whether we eat pommes in Hungary, Austria or Sweden – not to mention more or less. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what he didn't do today. He has not done so in the last few days and weeks, instead he has spoken of a thousand regulations. I wonder, What exactly does he mean? Does he mean what exactly are the regulations on nature conservation, consumer protection, the protection of workers and workers, the protection of health? And: Why didn't you use your Presidency? Why did you not submit your proposals to the Task Force 2018, specifically set up at European level, in which Mr. Lopatka was represented? That's what I'm asking myself. [[Abg. Jarolim: Not a word! Not a word!]] We expect here an honest, reasonable and responsible policy of a Federal Chancellor – especially now when we look at Italy, where Salvini hates minorities, to Poland, where the rule of law with Feet is being kicked, to Hungary, where anti-Semitism is being hit and illiberal democracy is a keyword of Orbán, and to Austria, where the FPÖ is in the right-wing extremism scene deeper inside than it is right for us to learn every day. [[Abg. Steger: Or to Romania, where the Social Democrats - -!]] It is precisely these forces that only Europe wants to destroy, destructively, every day. That's not utopia, this danger is real! [[Abg. Hafenecker: Talk to my colleague Schieder, please!]] Mr. Federal Minister, I appeal to you and the Federal Chancellor: Have courage to be honest again! Return to responsibility, for Europe, for the future and for the people, and do not become the agents of the greatest destroyers of the greatest peace project on our continent! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9531	Reported as follows: Mrs Petra Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9556	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, Mr Rendi-Wagner, it is always funny that you accuse or stop us of the destruction of the European Union. I can only say, and I warn you, with your policy, that you are on the best way to destroy the European Union you are defending here. That's your policy, and you'll take care of it alone. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was really pleased about the words and demands of German Chancellors in the last few days: less bureaucracy, less premeditation, less control insanity. In short, more Austria, less EU. Of course, this needs the European Union! This is the future for the European Union! And I was really happy, for the simple reason: because we seem to have won a new voters, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Because if you really want this and really want it, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – I can't spare you – then nothing will be left for you except on 26. May vote for Harald Vilimsky. That's it! [[New cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ as well as advocacy of the Abg. Light peace.]] He is the only one who has not only been consistently committed to it for years, but will continue to work for it in the future and will also ensure that it will actually be implemented at the level of the European Union. So either vote For Harald Vilimsky– or you still take off your top candidate Othmar Karas today. [[Abg. Lightenness: Or for Petra Steger, that goes too!]] There are two possibilities, ladies and gentlemen! Not only that your top candidate all the time demands exactly the opposite of you, he also has all that you now criticize to share in the past years. Yes, he is even very proud that he has now been recognized as one of the most successful European politicians. I can only say that, in view of such developments at EU level, I would rather get used to it, ladies and gentlemen. Just such politicians as a Mr Karas are responsible for the current state of the European Union; a Mr Karas, who was not only at the West Railway Station with the welcome clothes, but who has already criticised this government more often than some opposition politicians: the UN Migration Pact, the indexation of family aid, external border protection and much more. It was only yesterday at the juridical that I experienced him at a panel discussion – I was at it – when he said he was for the Pommes regulation and did not know what a thousand regulations you mean. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, are you aware of this? Do you know what he says every time he is addressed to these differences, what he answers? – He says everyone who has observed him in the past few years knows what he's for. Yes, we know what he says: for more EU and even more EU and a bit more EU, whether it works or not, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, we also know where the trip is going, not only when you know what Karas stands for, but also when you know what SPÖ, NEOS and greens are for. They stand for the abolition of the principle of unanimity, for even more centralization – up to the task of Austria as an independent nation state. The sad thing is that you still haven't learned from the mistakes of the past that you still haven't learned anything from Brexit. There are exactly two reasons for the Brexit, as the election analyses have shown: One is migration, and that's it! - And what are you doing? – They pour more oil into the fire and want even more centralism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Can you explain to me, and I really don't understand how to work as an Austrian politician for the fact that Austria has less and less to say and less and less, ladies and gentlemen? They want more to be passed on to national interests, and believe that this will help the unity of the European Union. On the contrary! With this driving and punishing mentality towards all the countries that are not your opinion, you will do exactly one thing: that even more countries will follow the UK. Then you don't need to point your finger to the evil right, but then you only need to look in the mirror, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only danger for Austria and the European Union is your vision for the future! And that's where I say: If we protect Austria, we protect Europe from your visions of the future, such as those of our colleague Gamon, who not only wants to abolish our ever-ending neutrality, but also the Republic of Austria to do so! I think it is always funny that you call us a threat to the Constitution and at the same time you want to abolish the Republic. So if you do, then you are more likely to be the danger to our constitution. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the FPÖ.]] If we protect Austria, we also protect Europe from a future vision of SPÖ, which, in a social union, wants to reduce our hard-to-armed social standards to a European average level! [[Abg. Vogl:... no Golden Plating?- Oh, my God!]] Let us protect Europe from your visions of the future, which mean that in the future we will continue to finance the EU's unemployed throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said: If we protect Austria, we protect Europe from your visions of the future! – Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! ==References====External links== We shall vote in favour of a strong Europe of independent sovereign nation states in May.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9673	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Mag.a Beate Meinl-Reisinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9694	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is very funny, but actually very disturbing, about what we are discussing in Austria in European political terms: about a April joke like the schnitzel and the Pommes, while a trade war between the USA and China is in the middle of the course, while the sabering between the USA and China Iran has again reached a climax, while Donald Trump, quite openly speaking, wants to see a militaryly non-strong Europe and wants to suffocate any tendency of the first gear of the common security, foreign and defence policy in the germ, and at the same time we know that the European Commission is again rightly warning that election manipulations by fake news, by troll factories financed by the Kremlin, could take place. I find it quite reassuring that the Austrian People's Party as a government party has nothing to do but talk about Schnitzel and Pommes. This is the land of the happy and blessed, that is the world in which you live! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] If you love Austria, you think it's European! [[Abg. Hafenecker: How long have you been working for Mr Karas, Mrs. Colleague?]] In all these questions I have just referred to, Mrs Steger, Mr Vilimsky, I really wish myself a clear text to the Austrians. Do you believe that anyone in Austria actually believes that in questions of a trade war, a threatening military dispute between the USA and Iran, negotiations on free trade with the USA, but also with China, which is urgently needed, we have a stronger position in any form than a common, strong, united Europe? [[Abg. Hafenecker: How long have you been working for Mr Karas, Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, when you were still at the ÖVP?]] Don't spread so much sand to people! Activities You really are patriotic and European! That would be an attitude once. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is a great vision for Europe, where reforms are needed. And you know that we NEOS are the most powerful when it comes to the question of reforms that we are actually addressing. It is nothing less than the ability to act on all these essential issues – and the ability to act also means that this damned principle of unanimity, which always leads through a blockade of national interests, finally throw on the pile of history. [[Abg. Have you worked for Mr Karas?]] The ability to act also means living a common security and defence policy not only in the small, but also actively developing it, and of course towards a European army. The capacity for the future is to be fully active in climate change and not only to seek the smallest common denominator between the European People's Party and social democracy, but to actually move forward progressive policies. But future capacity also means being competitive, a strong internal market, which can be the frontline of both the US and China in the negotiations on free trade, and which sets the standards that have a global significance that we can be proud of: Technical standards, environmental standards, consumer protection and health – and, by the way, data protection, where the US and China naturally observe exactly what standards we set, because they will be applicable worldwide. Action, sustainability, decision-making – all this needs Europe, and all of this needs courage to reform. We NEOS are those who say clearly where to go, who make the most courageous announcement: towards the United States of Europe, where we are proud of what we are doing economically in Europe, are proud of what we are doing in climate policy. We insist that we not only think in our small Schrebergärten, but say: If you love Austria, you think European and you also think towards the United States of Europe! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] But what do we hear about Sebastian Kurz before this election? – It is nothing but a embarrassing and stupid Brussels bashing, which we know indeed by nationalists and populists. Finally, a warning to all those who say this is a wise tactic: Don't break up! They thus make positions majority capable of being non-majority. [[Abg. Hafenecker: What do you say? – They want to abolish our state!]] We should all be aware of our responsibility for the spirit of Brussels, and it is a reminder to you that David Cameron, in just such words, has plunged Britain into chaos. You must increase the dose permanently if you open the door to nationalists and right-wing populists. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You want to abolish our state, that's the truth!]] This has led to the Brexit chaos in the UK, and I do not wish for this for Austria. I am very concerned about the way in which you, the EIA, are leading us increasingly unreliable in Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9839	The next item is Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9857	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Dear Seers! As we know and have already discussed, in the last few days, the Federal Chancellor has stopped with three messages, and I would like to address these three proposals that he has made. First, he proposed renegotiating the EU Treaty. – In principle, an exciting proposal that should also be discussed, because we need to further develop the European Union and constantly have to think about reforms. But how seriously do we really think about reform efforts in the EU election? If the Federal Chancellor wants to reform the EU so fundamentally, why was the Austrian Presidency not used for this? One could have set the first course. One could also have proposed first real, innovative pro-European ideas. However, the fact that this call is now coming in the EU election campaign suggests to me that it will probably and probably be back in a drawer again, just as we know it from the National Council election campaign, for example, the promise of the protection of child support has been silently lost in the drawer. [[Abg. Lightenness: This is a real conclusion, a very correct conclusion!]] The second reason why the Federal Chancellor stopped was that the rule of law was from Brussels or the EU molding. This reminded me of a quote by the unfortunately deceased Austrian cabaretist Werner Schneyder, who said: ‘Europe consists of states that do not wish to be prescribed as to what they themselves have decided.’ So I thought, at first, that our head of government's statements would probably be satire, because he can't all seriously believe that he was going to be run by Brussels. I thought I was reading an article from the Austrian satire newspaper “Die Tagespresse”, but, ladies and gentlemen, that was not the case. It was not an article of the “The Daily Press” satire, nor was it a satire, it was bitterly serious. The reason why this is so absurd for me is simple: because the ministers and the Heads of Government are responsible for it because they have a significant influence on the laws of the European Union. The European Council, which is composed of Heads of State or Government of the individual Member States – and which the Federal Chancellor belongs to! – it is also responsible, together with the European Parliament, which laws are passed and which are not. The European Council may even instruct the European Commission to draw up laws. In the light of this legal situation, I simply do not understand how the Federal Chancellor, the head of government of a Member State of the European Union, can say that he will be led by Brussels, for he himself is responsible for these laws. [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. Light peace.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: He hasn't noticed that until now!]] Then we come to this statement concerning the thousand EU regulations, the removal of a thousand EU regulations: Why the number a thousand? They still owe us, the ÖVP still owes us to explain to us what a thousand regulations are actually meant. I would like to focus briefly on a statistics: At present, there are about 6 600 EU regulations on content. Nearly a third of these acts are based on the accounts of EU governments. The Council of the European Union as the representative of the governments of the Member States is thus the second most frequent author of these EU regulations. If one wants to delete a thousand, then one can only achieve this if one dissolves the European internal market, and that would actually mean the complete destruction of the European Union. But I don't think so, and I can't imagine at all that you meant it that way. I am therefore looking forward to this. But if we really want to talk about reforms, we do! Let us talk about the great pro-European reforms! Let us say that we need a Republic of Europe, that it would be necessary for it to be finally the time when European law is also based on the European people, by European citizens – for these measures would put European citizens at the centre of the debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9910	Next, Mr Reinhold Lopatka is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e9935	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, to present a Bavarian CSU politician like Manfred Weber as centralists, that is already a strong piece! [[Abg. Haider: Yes what?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A politician who comes from the Free State of Bavaria is anything but a centralist. [[Abg. Haider: You have to take the pink glasses off!]] Just go to Berlin, colleague Haider – I was there this week – and talk about the centralists from Bavaria there! Make this happen You're ridiculous. [[Abg. Haider: You have to take the pink glasses off!]] Mr Gamon! We are on the ground of the Austrian federal constitution. We do not want to give up our nation state – and well functioning nation states are the best basis for a well-functioning European Union! That's different from you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We do not fantasize a European Union as a state, as you see it. Ladies and gentlemen! If a person is in favour of reforms, he is in good company as a good European: Jean-Claude Juncker was the first to have this discussion - - – certainly it was Jean-Claude Juncker with his five scenarios on the future of the European Union! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Go! I worked in the Commission in 2005!]] You seem to have not read the white paper. The White Paper contains exactly what Jean-Claude Juncker wants to discuss. They know the five scenarios, and this federal government has clearly stated in its government programme that it wants to be an “active and reliable partner” – an “active and reliable partner”, as the government programme says – for the European Union, but on the basis of subsidiarity! This is the decisive thing, because the closer we bring European policy to the citizens, the less we have to complain that voting is bad, and the more people will understand that we need this European Union – but in a division of work: What the communities can do is to do. What our federal states are creating is to stay there. What we can do here in Parliament does not have to go to Brussels. But there are many areas that we can only regulate internationally, Europeanally. – This is our approach, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Anger.]] As far as our Federal Chancellor is concerned: ‘Europeans’ means: ‘Kurz ist Europa-Expert’. [[Abg. Lightness: That was a good joke now!]] – No, that wasn’t a joke, that was the “Handelsblatt”, a very renowned newspaper! The German “Handelsblatt” has just so Sebastian Kurzstimulated “The Europeans”: [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: When? When?]] ‘Kurz ist Europa-Expert’. [[The MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Leichtfried:When? When?]] ==References== May! [[Abg. Lightenness: There was a lot in between!]] It's not a week old yet. The “when? ” was now the wrong call. What the “Handelsblatt ” says here is up to date! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yeah, you don't like to hear that. I did not know who could call the “trade sheet” from the SPÖ ranks as European experts. Can you call me a European expert from SPÖ? [[Call the SPÖ:Separator! Regner!]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: Andreas Schieder!]] – I don't have that much speaking time, I can't wait so long. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I can only tell you that the “trade sheet” here in a series of Macron, the new CDU CEO Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer and Sebastian Kurzals called those who are thinking about this. [[Abg. Lightness: That means you choose the vilimsky now?]] Mr Leichtfried! I'll tell you something. “The time for an ever closer union in all [...] policies lies behind us.” This time is behind us, I tell you. [[Abg. Lighten: So choose the vilimsky!]] - No, Timmermans said that. That's your top candidate! That's what Timmermans said, your top candidate, when he was Foreign Minister of the Netherlands. I don't know if Timmerman's vilimsky needs to be chosen. This is an interesting approach, Mr Leichtfried. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Don't turn off, Mr. Lopatka!]] - I'm not distracting. It was Frans Timmerman's – yes, you don't like to hear that – and I quote him now, Frans Timmermans, your top candidate. [[Abg. Lightness:... a preferable voice to him!]] – Can you listen to me for a moment? [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: You can choose it!]] Frans Timmermans initiates his letter, an official letter to the Commission, as follows: ‘The time for an ever closer Union in all [...] Policy fields are behind us.” And Timmermans then points out some issues where he says we need less European Union, and he calls it “greater remuneration for EU officials”. [[Abg. Lightenness: That means you choose not the vilimsky, but the Timmermans?]] – If the Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz or Vice Chancellor Heinz-Christian Stracheoder had said that the excitement would be terrible, because one cannot say such a thing. Timmermans said that! It also points out that ‘increasing powers for Brussels authorities and the introduction of a common budgetary law’. That leads too far for him. He says that these points should be included “in an agenda for a more inclusive and effective EU. The principle should read as follows: At European level only if necessary, at national level whenever possible." You're so divided, the voters don't know what to do with you! [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of ÖVP) Yes, exactly! Column ‘s’? Red that's it!]] Timmermans says the complete opposite of what we say.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10237	You have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10252	Final sentence: We stand for a strong European Union, and Sebastian Kurz is one of the strongest heads of government. Together with Rutte and others, he will lead this Union into a good future, and we will not be let go of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10293	The next item is the speech of Mr Mag.a Evelyn Regner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10317	Madam President. Honourable Members! Dear Seers! Minister! I am pleased that today, as a European Member of Parliament, I can speak to you in the National Council, but it is important to put a few things in the right light before the elections to the European Parliament. Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is not present today, you have made your statements with clarity in the last few days – the mask has definitely fallen –: The Turkish ÖVP, the short ÖVP is an antidemokra -, ah, an anti-European party. [[Abg. Woeger: Go, go, go, go!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: This one still has the speech concept from the master table, from Section 8! This was the talk of Section 8!]] The Kurz-ÖVP is an anti-European party! In contrast to what the title of today's European hour would suggest, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, were never concerned with a meaningful further development of the European Union. A smaller European Commission, serious consequences for infringements of EU law, revision of competition law in which foreign policy becomes more operational – Mr Federal Chancellor, I have been Members of the European Parliament for ten years, I know the business, I know the debates, and one thing I can say to you: No matter how much we stand on these proposals, they have zero news value! – With all due respect, Federal Chancellor: Sale Don't fool the people in Austria! Don't sell her! A new treaty for the future of Europe, which is probably a campaign gag, a bad one. This EU bashing is so flat, so predictable and could come directly from the FPÖ's election programme. ÖVP and FPÖ are probably no longer to be distinguished on these issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At least a thousand regulations should be deleted. The question must be allowed: Where do you want to start, Chancellor? Do you want to start with air passenger rights, consumer protection? Do you want to start with roaming in foods for cancer-inducing substances? They say subsidiarity and my social reduction. That's not responsible, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As European Members, as a trade unionist, I take this responsibility very seriously. [[Call the FPÖ:Noch!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:No-deputies!]] It is about people who work hard in Austria and Europe. All that we have built in Europe is not a matter of course. This is hard to fight, hard to negotiate, hard to get started, and we have to defend and develop it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the EU working time directive, it is about the work-life balance regulation, it is about protection at work. It is about the employment authority of the European Union, which is God thanks to the Members of the European Parliament and also to the governments, but not the Austrian, who have been enforced to give people safety at work to control when wage dumping occurs. That's what it's all about! That is why I am proud of what we have achieved in the European Parliament for the people of Austria and Europe. Let's not take that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What Europe needs: a contract for the people and not for the corporations. Fair rules are to be set up: man in the centre. Companies should also make their fair share. Companies are important, but they are supposed to pay taxes, they are supposed to make their fair share. [[Abg. Little: The Voest is also a company!]] It is therefore a question of the welfare state of Europe. It is about protection, social protection, and security for people. If we don't finally build this strong social foundation, close the line between the poor and the empire, create good new jobs, then Europe's destroyers will win. And we won't let that happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's where they wrote you a solid nonsense!]] I want a human-friendly Europe for my two children. I know that we're dealing with the problems in the 21st century. It is only possible to resolve with the European partners on a joint basis in the century. My motto is so simple, as simple as basic: A good life for everyone must be possible. And I will fight for that – as a Social Democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10456	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Roman Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10485	Madam President. [[Abg. Jarolim: President in!]] Federal Minister! High house! Already in the title “Order, Good Life Perspective and Home Mind: A new treaty for the future of Europe is undoubtedly recognised as an election campaign. But what is special about this election campaign – apart from such ardent words – is already this division: On the one hand, there are five parties whose top candidates want more centralization and more prejudice from Brussels, and on the other hand one party, the FPÖ, who would like to regain more competences to Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The top candidates of five parties therefore want a European central state, only the FPÖ is committed to the preservation of Austria as a sovereign state. It is very remarkable, really remarkable, when the majority of the candidate parties, whose Members have sworn an oath to the constitution of this state, are committed to the very end of this state. Especially clearly do NEOS say that – that is what you need to benefit from, you are at least honest –: The NEOS have made clear from the outset that a voice for NEOS is a voice for the resolution of Austria. Mrs Gamon can be elected here in Austria to Brussels, and in Brussels the abolition of Austria. So I really think the voters will give you the right answer. There you can be quite sure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I find the case very interesting at the SPÖ. There you can now clearly consider what socialists can do well everywhere: Make debt and invent new taxes. Because the climate and CO2 are in all its mouths, you are now demanding a CO2 tax. The massive damage to European industry and the mass migration of jobs to the benefit of the US and China will not at all be done by the comrades. But I'm not surprised that you're squandered, because you won't be choosing any more employees anyway. You don't need to be careful about whether unemployment is rising or not at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] For SPÖ, the main thing is that the Group's headquarters remain in Europe so that the semi-retired ex-SPÖ politicians can continue to be provided with well-dominated top-level jobs. We know the names: Brigitte Ederer, Alfred Gusenbauer, Viktor Klima, Christian Kern, Sonja Wehsely – all these names are known, all provided in the companies! But that's far from the SPÖ. No, that's not enough for a long time. Now the call for expropriations from companies must come. For all politicians who see Venezuela as a model and who continue to seek salvation in Marxism, the SPÖ has now become the alternative and the electoral well-being resort. Congratulations, comrades, you really put full-gas in the way back there! That's really incredible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now for a moment to the ÖVP: What do you want me to say? – On the one hand, the copying machine is again shamelessly attacked, and freedom demands for a re-dimensional EU are copied. On the other hand, the top-ranking candidate praises the EU as alone. So the Federal Chancellor criticizes the Pommes Directive, the top candidate praises it again over the green clover. Maybe you should decide what you really want. Stays: The top-level candidate is for the European Central State, at least until now, perhaps it will be different again tomorrow. You don't know exactly about the ÖVP. So, in fact, only the FPÖ is the only party that makes it absolutely clear what it wants. We are the only party wishing to preserve Austria as a sovereign state. We would like to see the EU as a confederation of independent states with precisely defined competences. We see it as a complement to the national states in the areas where cooperation is useful; that is absolutely all right. On no other question, this is as clear as the principle of unanimity: There are all the other political groups for its abolition. The statement of reasons is defying: Finally, other states should be able to agree on the license for driving. Not with us! We are in favour of maintaining the principle of unanimity. We want to leave the tax authority in Austria. That's why this choice is a direction decision: Whoever Austria doesn't care - -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10551	Deputies! Your speaking time is exhausted. The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10566	The final sentence is where you always turn, Madam President, and it would have just come. Whoever Austria does not care, the centralists can choose from all parties; whoever is important to Austria and who wants to receive it will choose the FPÖ. Of course!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10597	Next: Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Martha Bißmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10615	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Visitors! Federal Minister! Yes, as a non-attached parliamentarian, we are going to leave the speaker's desk without applause. But I'll tell you one thing: To be able to express yourself freely and, above all, differentiatedly here, that is priceless! I would now also like to use my independence to vote for a general appeal towards citizens. Make use of yours, make use of your right to vote! After all, this was fought hard. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP, FPÖ and NEOS.]] The women's right to vote was fought hard 100 years ago, but just before that, the general right to vote, when men were allowed to vote for the first time, that is, in general, all men. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Who did it first in 1848?]] I would also like to stress that Austria is one of only two countries in the European Union next to Malta, where you can choose from 16 years of age. Therefore, a special appeal to the youth – there are many here today –: Make use of your right to vote! It is a right, but it is in fact also a duty, because democracy has not fallen from heaven; it must be defended every day against the enemies of democracy who are acting on Europe as on other parts of the world. The right to vote is an essential, important part of democracy. I will not vote for a particular party, but would like to note that the climate crisis has become the survival issue of humanity. I would therefore like to encourage the electorate of the forces, the liberal forces that have put climate protection at the top of the agenda and which highlight the social Union and the cooperation. With regard to climate protection, I would like to say that the electorate who has a special security need and who would like to choose the party that gives them the special security promise regarding external border protection, but also internal border protection: Climate protection is also a security issue. The United Nations is predicting us Abermillions of climate refugees, we are not getting under control of the climate crisis. Then – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen – no more Frontex forces at the external borders help, then no more fences and walls. But now we still have time to reach the 2-degree goal and prevent the worst. I'll tell you: The areas around the world that become uninhabitable, that is not Europe, that is not our country – although the weather capitals will still increase, we will experience the glacier melt and everything else still possible – but uninhabitable half continents. Half of Africa becomes an area where one simply cannot survive. And what will people do in their desire for survival? – They will be on their way – also to us. Go choose! I would like to see a Europe which will remain peaceful for another 70 years and which will demonstrate social cohesion. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10671	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:23:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10695	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10889	I inform you that the Sixth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10908	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure Written question 3536/J by Dr.in Belakovich, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection Mag.a Beate Hartinger-Little on "Poverty reduction and measures for greater social justice" is to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, this will be discussed at the earliest 3 hours after entry into the agenda, i.e. at 15.25 a.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3073/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10937	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that, in accordance with Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a request for a brief debate on the reply 3073/AB to Question 3093/J by Mr Mag. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Automatic pension division with opt-out’ by the Federal Minister for Women, Families and Youth Dr.in Bogner-Strauss. Since this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will follow. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10958	It is proposed that the debate on points 9 to 11 of the agenda be summarized. I ask if there is any objection. - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e10980	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times arise – that is the agreement reached at the Presidential Conference, which was carried out by everyone –: ÖVP 130 minutes, SPÖ and FPÖ each 116 minutes as well as NEOS and NOW each 39 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 20 minutes. In addition, their speaking time is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[12:26:21]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (110 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research (598 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11026	This brings us to Agenda item 1. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mrs. Federal Minister Dr.in Schramböck. First of all, Mr. Dr. Peter Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11068	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are talking about a state objective that should lift the economic location at the same level as environmental protection in order to simplify it. What's the problem with that? What is at all the problem of state objectives, and what is the meaning and purpose of state objectives? – State objectives are in themselves very controversial in the scientific community; they are in favour of one, and others do not like it. I believe that these state objectives must be handled very carefully. Finally, state objectives always reflect what society is important. At a time when everyone knows that the climate crisis is getting worse, everyone knows that we have problems with environmental protection, all universities are talking about it, all scientists are talking about the need for a serious approach to this environmental protection and this climate crisis, and that, in the end, even the Vatican has moved in and said that this is one of the challenging problems of our world, at that time, because everyone is only thinking more about how to strengthen environmental protection, how to prevent the climate crisis, one is thinking in Austria about how to weaken environmental protection by facing an opposite state objective. – The State objective Strengthening the economic location is counter to the state objective of environmental protection. If we now put two conflicting state objectives into the Constitution, then that is totally reprehensible, for: What is the meaning and purpose of state objectives? There are two reasons for state objectives: One is that legislation itself is bound in its responsibility according to these state objectives in social orientation – at national, national and local level. That is, the goal is that we give this one priority to ourselves. If you place an opposite focus, it is clear that the priorities are mutually uplifting each other and practically removing that one goal that is currently our priority. On the other hand, there is a second effect, which is crucial for both the administration and the courts; it is possible to use state objectives to guide a decision. There is no right to a state objective, but one can deduce the orientation of the decision. If one gives two conflicting state objectives into the Constitution, that is to say, one opens up the perfect arbitrariness to the courts, because then they can decide according to how it is needed. I think this is worrying, it is completely empty of meaning at all to include two conflicting state objectives in the Constitution. It would have been more honest to say that we are replacing environmental protection with a State-targeted economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] That would have been more honest. However, at a time when the debate on environmental protection and the management of the climate crisis is at the height of the debate, they do exactly the opposite and focus on economic location. The focus on economic location is also not necessary from the practical effectiveness, because Austria is also an attractive economic location with the focus on environmental protection. It's not that we have any disadvantages. We are one of the best countries if you look at the economic location. We are best valued in Europe, we are best valued in the world – what is a weakening of the overall objective of environmental protection? [[Abg. Bösch: Why not?]] – That’s your problem! I think it's ignorance. Every Friday, the young people show us what they think of your environmental policy, namely, nothing at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] It is quite obvious in the population that now, when everyone talks about climate change and environmental protection and is one of the most necessary objectives that do not weaken and prevent it. This is your policy of announcement, which you pursue in all areas. They say environmental protection – in reality nothing happens. I wonder, How long can a country like Austria afford an environmental protection minister that costs the country 6 billion euros? [[Abg. Jarolim: A disaster!]] In reality, a minister who, with his environmental policy, ultimately costs the country 6 billion euros is not viable in any other country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's an absolute no-go for me, what's happening here. Mrs Minister, let us say on the way to dealing with one thing: They want a state target. You haven't even talked to the SPÖ, although you need a constitutional majority. I don't know how many times you've talked to NEOS. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Once! Not even answered to my email!]] I think they're the same as us, there's no conversation. This superiority will not result in you being successful. Today it will be a brilliant victory of the opposition, because you will not get any government target economic location! [[Abg. Jarolim: A victory for the opposition!]] You have to attribute this to yourself: You have a deadline until 14. We have to vote today on May's request. You will suffer a defeat today – and thank God you will suffer this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] [[Abg. Haubner: A defeat for the site!]] It will finally punish this superiority which you have shown to the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] This superiority you have shown is punished by the fact that you do not get what you want. It's easy! If you do not learn to negotiate constitutional provisions with the opposition, there will be no such thing in the future. I wonder why you even have to make a deadline when you know you're going to lose. I congratulate you on this failure!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11210	At the gallery I greet students of the New Middle School of St. Stefan or Stainz very cordially! I'm glad you're following the debate! (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Mr Andreas Ottenschlager came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11255	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Mr Wittmann, what you call the victory of the opposition, may be a defeat for the Austrian site and thus also for the workers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If this is to be your responsible opposition policy – then good night for the location! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] You do not think of any action you are taking here, of the workers in this country for which you always want to make policy. You don't! [[New applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially for the spectators: What is it about? – Let me briefly read the wording: “The Republic of Austria [...] professs itself to be a sustainable and competitive economic location as a prerequisite for prosperity and employment.” – What is wrong with this sentence? – I would like to debate this today. [[Abg. Erasim: Nothing at all!]] What's wrong with that? [[Abg. Jarolim: You don't understand the problem!]] The first point: The reason for this is as follows: With the proposal, "Sustainability should be extended to cover all state action in order to give the consistency of economy and ecology a great opportunity for the future. At the same time, a competitive advantage and new opportunities in international comparison will be granted to a sustainable and sustainable economic location.” – I wonder what’s wrong with that. We thought something about it when, together with the NEOS colleagues, we negotiated this text. [[Abg. Lighten up, right now?]] They have also made a very constructive contribution. I'm really wondering: What is wrong with this text? Ladies and gentlemen, consider that the Burgenlander Landtag has also taken a decision which he has sent to members of the Federal Government with the request to make such a change in the Constitution! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] That's interesting! What are the Turkish SPÖ delegates doing? [[Abg. Lightenness: You will see that already!]] What do they do if – at the time – Mr. Landeshupt writes a letter and asks us to do so? What are the representatives of Vienna doing? [[Abg. Lightenness: You will see that too!]] Mr Mayor and Mr Finanzstadtrat welcomed the decision on the Lobau Tunnel and complained about the long procedures. What are the Vienna Members doing now? This change is likely to have an effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] – Of course, this has an effect, and you, as a lawyer, also know that there are decisions relating to this constitutional provision. [[Abg. Lightness: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the subject of economic location, because criticism by the NEOS colleagues always comes, I think: The greeting of the merchants is the pity. Meanwhile, the greeting of NEOS is the pity. It is always argued: More, more, more discharge from Austria! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is primitive!]] You have assembled that Mrs. Federal Minister has not answered your demands accordingly. I think the answer is relatively clear and it is public Here is the Council of Ministers' presentation on tax relief, which says “relief of [...] income”, “debureaucratisation for small businesses”, “increase of the border of low-value economic goods”, “reduction of [...] [[Keeping a new piece of paper in height]] [[Issuances of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] Income taxpayers, ‘structural simplifications in tax law’, in particular in the Income Tax Act, ‘shorter period of procedure’, ‘research premium’, ‘lowing corporate tax’, and so on, and so on. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Chamber 2!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: A biterl show!]] To argue here that we are not doing anything for the economic location is already a strong piece. There were various demands made by NEOS during the discussions; last it was the chamber envelope 2. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You've heard this for decades! Do – don't announce!]] That's where I'm already asking myself the question: What does Chamber 2 have to do with a constitutional provision? – If you want to do something for the economic location, you can do it today by agreeing to our proposal and deciding on this state objective together today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11466	I welcome students at the Gallery of Political Studies of the Institute of World Civilizations with us. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11499	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr Ottenschlager, ladies and gentlemen, I have recently come up with the following: The ÖVP has now become a Montgolfier of the political landscape in Austria – hot air balloons without end! You produce nothing but hot air, headlines, Gags, Gags, Gags! That's actually the jumping point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] When I think of the location, I do not think of the ten letters of the word economy that must be in the Constitution. It was always our demand, we have been for it, but it distinguishes us from you. The ÖVP is about its clients, but these are no longer the citizens, that is no longer the citizenship, they are no longer the taxpayers and taxpayers, they are no longer the companies. [[Abg. Haubner: Go! But you!]] If those who take care of entrepreneurs, if – we are still discussing the SME report today – we are going to release small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, taxpayers and taxpayers in this country, then NEOS are the right ones. [[Abg. Haubner: Go!]] They've always been involved in this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We do not want to participate in symbol politics, and that is very dramatic. We have also heard it in the contribution of Minister Blümel. In fact, we don't need a carpentry chancellor, we need a deregulation, and this deregulation must take place in this country. We need to abolish the cold progression. [[New condolences with the NEOS.]] We need a dramatic reduction in wages and additional costs. Look at that. [[a table with a chart showing wage and wage tax developments, keeping up to date]] The wage increase from 1990 to 2019 was 210 percent, while the wage tax increased by 355 percent. Who did it? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Who was the inventor of the whole? – The social partners were involved, the Economic and Social Committee was involved. What have you done in the last 30 years for the relief of entrepreneurs and taxpayers? – This is a symbol policy with ten letters, there was no offer from you, our demands were rejected. We're not going with that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are very much in favour of the location, and we have also announced this to the Minister of the Interior several times. We even met you: Makes something that is noticeable, removes the chamber envelope 2! The Chamber of Commerce, which has EUR 1.7 billion in reserves, no longer needs the Chamber envelope 2, which Sallinger temporarily introduced for three or four years for those in need of small businesses. You did not take this away because you want to swim in the money because you want to share money because you want to spend about 300 000 euros for a party event for the Federal Chancellor just before the election, the Chamber of Commerce! That's why you don't want to abolish Chamber 2. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We made you a second offer – for taxpayers: If the additional wage costs result in reductions, we will be able to meet them! You didn't do that either. What's going on? – The accusation of junk animation. What has the social partnership done over the last 40 years, except for junctimate? What has the ÖVP done in the last 40 years, except for junctimate? – Of course, we want to injunctify, but for entrepreneurs and not for a party, for taxpayers, but not for the party! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have the possibility that you will describe the request a little more. We agree if you respond to our demands for the benefit of entrepreneurs, for the benefit of taxpayers and taxpayers. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:45]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11752	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11779	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned that we want to include the state objective of economic location in the Constitution – in addition to this – because we believe that a good economic location is an essential factor in the functioning of prosperity in this country. There are three main arguments here from the opposition, why they do not agree. It could be assumed, of course, that everyone here in the house wishes Austria to be a good economic location, which also brings growth, but above all prosperity and which is competitive in international comparison. That seems to be a matter of course. So there are three arguments that are put forward here. The first argument is: State targets in themselves are not particularly important, are worthless, pointless. – This is to be said openly, and we should also say that the state objectives currently in place in the Constitution, namely environmental protection, animal welfare, the protection of water and food supply, research, are also pointless; this is to be said openly! If one is not of this opinion and says that state targets show what is particularly important to us, then a sustainable competitive economic location is also one of those points that are important. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also claimed that the national objectives of economic location and environmental protection contradict each other. – Does animal protection and research also contradict each other because research also works with animal experiments that I largely reject? – No, on the contrary, it is said that these are just two important requirements. We want research, but we also want animal welfare to be balanced and we act accordingly. That's the way it is: It is a matter of weighing, economic location and environmental protection are important. Especially when you say that environmental protection does not end at the border, it is important and right that we have an economic location here in Austria with very, very strict environmental standards, which are much better produced than that in India, China or the USA, where you do not comply with these requirements. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But you need Europe, Mr Stefan!]] It is important that we have an economic location here, which is competitive and sustainable and takes environmental protection into account. I would like to support that precisely because environmental protection does not end at the border. For our young people, it has a double advantage for their future, when we say that we have an economic location that brings – hopefully – good, qualified jobs while at the same time at the least affecting the environment. These are very important requirements, which do not contradict each other, but – on the contrary – that is precisely due to each other. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Then there is the third counterargument that comes from the NEOS: There are so many other important measures for the economy, and you have to do this and that! . Much of what is said is right, but apart from the fact that this government has already done a lot for the economic location and for the economy, and even though Mr. Schellhorn has just adjourned this right now, we all know that we are very pleased with what this government has already implemented and that we feel very well that it is going in the right direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can clearly say that from my practice. If you ignore that, I don't know who you're talking to. I do not even think that you would now argue that there has been a clearly positive step in the right direction. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't deceive yourself!]] This step is set once, and I don't understand this condition now that you say: I am not in favour of the economic location in the Constitution, because so many other measures need to be taken for the economy! It's not a decoy or, it's an en-condition, it's both sensible. You can't play one against the other, that's just pointless. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] Mr Schellhorn has just said how terrible it was that the social partners have always junctified. – Of course, this is also a pure junk animation, which I can’t understand logically. If you are opposed to the economic location in the Constitution, then say it, but don't say you can't agree here because there are so many other important measures too! It doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, it doesn't fit in. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Obviously, it is primarily a tactical calculation. It does not really seem generous, but rather small-carrying when you act like it. I'm sorry, I don't like that, and I don't think it's right. It may be that this vote is in such a way that the economic location is not enshrined in the Constitution in this form, then everyone can attach themselves to their flags that they have prevented it, but I think Austria is doing nothing good with it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I therefore hope that all those who have so far seen this for tactical reasons still return to reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11871	The next item is the speech by Mr Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11893	First, I allow myself to welcome the students of the parish school from Baden. [[General condolences.]] In the matter, I think, it's reasonable to hang the whole thing a little lower. You are aware of the decision of the Federal Administrative Court concerning the third landepiste. At that time, the state objectives of environmental protection and sustainability were greatly strengthened and the economic operators were therefore excited. What the Bundesverwaltungsgericht did at that time was to try very hard to achieve the Federal Constitutional Law on Sustainability, which we have had since 2013. The consequence of this was then the decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice of June 2017, in which it stated quite clearly in relation to this decision that the Federal Constitutional Law on Sustainability did not derive an absolute priority from environmental interests and remedied the whole matter. But that had already come to grips with this new objective of state. In addition to what Mr Stefan rightly said, one should highlight the visor and confess the color: I do not think anything about this constitutional issue at all. I do not want in our Constitution any provisions, which are undetermined in content, which by far only mean Symbolic Use of Politics, and which allow the Supreme Courts the possibility of putting their political views into national targets on no longer corrective reflections. There I am also a follower of Hans Kelsen, since all the beginning: The more undetermined we have in the Constitution, the more power we give to the Supreme Courts. I think this is a self-esteem of the legislator. Laws should be tight, they should be understandable, and they should be effective – and that would be the task of Parliament. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] If one now proposes to make a provision according to which the Republic of Austria confesses itself to be a competitive and sustainable economic location – in itself a very big nonsense for a constitutional term – and no one knows what competition means in this context, and then one also formulates the general prosperity as a commitment goal, then one actually gives up the legislation in the matter itself. What is happening here and what is happening here in the house is that the Industrial Union has called and the dog of the Industrial Union – in this case, the ÖVP – and the FPÖ – are odd – weaving the tail and giving this cock the dress of a state target. And nothing makes this more obvious than today’s edition of the “Wiener Zeitung” – by the way, an underestimated newspaper in Austria – where the vice-general secretary of the Industrial Association Peter Koren makes it quite clear that what is involved in the committee is also Mr Gerstl – who will then speak immediately and correct it if I give it wrong expression – has announced: We want to strengthen this new state objective as a counterpoint to environmental protection in the Constitution. This will do something that has nothing to do with constitutional law, but very much about the sustainable nothing in the environmental field that characterizes this government. In reality, this will deliver another building block to institutionalize the future of Austria as a garbage dump of the present. - We reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11950	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr.in Schramböck, spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e11971	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Dear spectators in front of the TV screens! Today there should actually be something here in the House, which seems natural: a clear commitment by all political groups to a sustainable economic location and thus to employment and prosperity in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is precisely this commitment that we as the Federal Government are making and therefore also this proposal of the State objective presented. In my view, it is very unfortunate that there is no basic consensus in Parliament on jobs and economic growth in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Clearly, we do not want to over- and sub-order, and anyone who claims something else, I say, is not our intention, nor is it written in this way. What we want, however, is something at an eye-to-face level to ensure jobs for employees in Austria – and that should be in the interest of all parties. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] When I look back a little bit and look at who used to be a massive supporter of this goal, I can call Christian Kern, who has recently been sitting here as the Federal Chancellor of the SPÖ, also the SPÖ icon Hans Niessl and even the Burgenland Landtag and the current head of state of the Burgenland: They all voted in favour of a state objective of sustainable economy. I even have a letter from Mr. Landeshuptmann a. D., SPÖ-Icon Hans Niessl, in which he makes a clear statement. I am therefore very surprised to hear from you about the SPÖ now that you cannot support this objective, which is in the sense of the Austrian workers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I can only say one thing about the statements made by the once economic-friendly Group of the NEOS: I am very surprised that there is no support for this essential objective here. I note that there is no commitment to Austria's economic location, no commitment to jobs, no investment. We are already used to this from the SPÖ, we have seen it in the election campaign, the economic hostility is even pasted in the election campaign. Some even dream of a nationalization of large corporations. – We have come a long way, because it is about the employees, the investments, the companies that have a future and which will make it possible to go well into the future. With the NEOS, I am very surprised that you do not develop from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to remind you of something: You say you would have agreed – I have to say that the conjunctive does not count here. In the last one and a half years, we have provided real reliefs, I would just like to add a few: Flexibility of working time, acceleration of infrastructure projects through the Location Development Act, approval exemptions for plant approval, electronic tendering by the Federal Procurement Act New, debureaucratisation at the start-up and in the financing of start-ups, measures to combat the shortage of skilled workers, in particular new teaching professions, job fairs for asylum seekers and, last but not least, our tax reform, from which very many companies – not only head companies but also the SMEs of Austria – benefit. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] 99.8 percent of Austrian companies are medium-sized companies. They benefit from the new tax rates, they benefit in terms of low-valued goods, they benefit in relation to the various issues we have provided for in the tax reform; therefore, I am very surprised that I hear more talk from the pink corner than material policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There can be only two reasons for this. One reason is a purely political one, and that is an old policy: to demand something else, to give up something you are actually convinced of, to give up your own voters, to give up the entrepreneurs of Austria, because you want to do a counter-business. Or, the second reason: It's a lack of expertise. It is a lesser competence to really recognize the economic losses that we have made. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: There is no, that's the problem!]] Dear Beate Meinl-Reisinger, I warmly welcome you back to Parliament! We are all pleased that you are back here, and I very much hope that you will bring your group back to what should actually be a commitment to us, for the objective of business, for the location, for entrepreneurs and also for their employees. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say that this State objective, which we have proposed, is another important lever for a modern economic policy. It should not be above or below other objectives, but it has just as top priority as the topics of environmental protection, clean water and food supply. However, we have also seen that judges refer to state objectives, that judges orient their decisions on these basic issues, I would like to point out to you, and I invite you to vote. If you do not, you will also have to answer it if there are decisions against investment, economic location and jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Mile-Risinger: You will have to answer for it, you could do something!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12075	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerstl. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12104	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! High house! Until a few years ago, it was quite natural that the State was responsible for providing prosperity and employment, providing all the basic conditions for health care, education, mobility et cetera. But not too long ago, the courts began setting individual national targets on economy and employment; therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply necessary for us to balance the national target catalogue. We need a new balance in the state target catalogue, and for this balance it is important not to mention an over- or sub-order here, as the Federal Minister has already said, but to give the administrative authorities, the courts an opportunity to decide in individual cases what is more important: environmental protection as a whole, or the environmental protection for the locals. Let me give you a few examples of why it is important to include such a state objective: Let's think about the expansion of the West Railway, high-performance train. The route from Wels to Salzburg is not finished. There is a need for a new route. On the one hand, this is about bordering rights, and on the other hand, it is about reducing greenhouse gases, which is why the expansion of the rail makes sense. A court must be able to judge in this consideration. If we do not include the extension of this infrastructure route in the Constitution, then we are at risk that the rights of citizens will be placed on the protection of the rights of others, namely that we will emit fewer greenhouse gases. [[Abg. Erasim: That's not true! Don't you know, or are you just doing that?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are other examples, Mrs Colleague: Extension of the wide-track railway. That was your concern, too; I know the Social Democratic Chancellors who have been particularly committed to it. Extension of the wide-track railway from Kosice to Vienna: This is a big project, and we also need support for it. Or other projects, forward-looking projects: If we finally create autonomous traffic for trucks on our motorways, perhaps electrically controlled – we think about the future – then we need the expansion of completely new routes. This reduces greenhouse gases, is modern, is innovative and would be very helpful to our environment. We also need this constitutional provision, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or do we think of residential projects of a greater kind in Vienna: The bricks in Floridsdorf have often prevented a larger residential project. It is also necessary to satisfy an urgent housing need for the population. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ did not see it that way long ago, so I can now quote: Article 2172/A of Regulation (EC) No 2172/A of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 1997 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (OJ L 203, 17.7.1993, p. 1). Gerstl, Heinzl,’ – from the SPÖ – “Ottenschläger, Colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Constitutional Law on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research”: ‘The following section 3a is inserted after § 3: [...] The Republic of Austria [...] admits itself to growth, employment and a competitive economic location.” – Mr Wittmann, have you forgotten that we jointly submitted the application? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You from SPÖ are now leaving the course you once took, namely to take responsibility for Austria. They have returned to the old water, namely to play jobs against climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, it would be better for you to listen to the Chamber of Labour, it would be better for you to listen more to your union Vida, it would be better for you to listen to the union of railway workers, because for them all, these infrastructure projects are important, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Vogl: There is no union of railways!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That was once your poster: [[the expression of an election poster entitled ‘We fight for every workplace’.]] We're fighting for jobs! [[Call the ÖVP: Long is it!]] You broke that up. [[tearing down the said expression of the election poster]] That's over. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you are still not prepared to agree to this Constitution, I shall put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this and no less must be the claim of a responsible rule of law. And think of your own advertising cohesions instead of split! [[Keeping the expression of an election poster with the title ‘Containing instead of splitting’ in height]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[13:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12284	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly supported and is under negotiation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] I call Mr Jarolim. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12314	So I'm almost unscathed about this megadynamic dynamic brand Kurz, which was assigned to us all today. I would ask, Mr Gerstl – and we have also had nice discussions in committee – that perhaps you will hold a debate with Mr Stefan, who has more insight into this model, so that we can all talk about the same. I know that this proposal, which you have spoken about, was actually put to the discussion at the time, only as it turned out, is actually the intention behind it – and that was a very revealing, open statement in the Committee – to oppose environmental protection here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haubner: Rejected your own request!]] That's your goal. Madam Minister, in your speech too, I have missed God's words: The aim of the state is to ensure that something worthy of support in itself, but not – like other concerns – lobbyists, is written into the Constitution. And that is true of environmental protection, because we are all, of course, for the economic location, that is no question at all. [[Abg. Lettenbichler: Well, are you going with me? Are you coming?]] I think it is absolutely obscurity that we are discussing this at all. Everyone in his federal state, the city of Vienna for example, we are naturally considering how to strengthen the location, that is everyday life ; but in the case of environmental protection, that is not the case, and therefore one must write it into the Constitution, so that it is not forgotten that there is, of course, also the environment, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the location considerations. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Lettuce]] [[Abg. Stefan: Who is against environmental protection? Who is against environmental protection?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] If you look at the Friday demonstrations, if you look at that – unfortunately there is God's a somewhat obscene president in the USA, who doesn't take that into account at all – then you have to find out: We are in a way that completely destroys the environment. What will be the value of the site policy if we no longer have a location where we can be? This is not an exaggeration – thanks, ladies and gentlemen – but it is just a reality. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] No matter where you look – you can look at it in Asia, you can look at it in Africa – we have these huge problems, and these problems are addressed not only for us, but especially for our children and for the future. If people like Stephen Hawking recommend that we bring someone to another planet within 100 years, because he assumes that the environment no longer endures, it must give us some sort of thinking. Then put yourself here and say – that's what you said –: We do not need environmental protection to the extent that we are now taking it into account – which is anyway a smearing! – but we must here as a counterpoint – and this has been openly said thank God – to the local policy that economic policy is facing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this is such a responsibilityless thing that you deliver here! This is really more to be topped by Mrs Köstinger, who has shown inability to a rare extent here. They are celebrating the alleged tax reform, which is, in fact, a collective reform. At the same time, there is a threat of EUR 6.5 billion – about the volume of this tax reform – which threatens us because of the violations of international agreements, because we have not implemented environmental protection measures, which are of course natural, here, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, there must be someone to realize that something is going wrong in this country! And if one comes here now and argues against the fact that environmental protection is to be eliminated with the killing argument of location policy, you are still wondering! I must tell you, I do not understand much of what you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, have been doing in recent times. [[Abg. Haubner: That's what we know.]] The discussion about glyphosate and bee death is ancient. So there's almost no one who really wants it. In the United States, we heard about that yesterday, claims for damages amounting to $2 billion due to the use of these funds. You are voting here in the House, you are voting in favour in Europe. The same applies to the Acrylamide Regulation, the Pommes-Frites debate. That makes sense to limit these oils, which are very cancerous. Can now You say, of course: That's what we're trying to do, pure with the cancer-stimulating oil in the Austrians! - We don't want that! We want to have a discussion here that corresponds to the future of this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Bravo!]] I can only tell you: What the government parties offer here is under any criticism. This is actually a tankish affair, it's visionless, it's out of perspective, it's infantile to a high degree, and it's especially harmful to our youth and to the future. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höfinger and Mr Lettenbichler.]] You should be really ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12450	Mr Klinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12472	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! High house! Mr Wittmann apparently spoke in a lack of memory, of short-sightedness, of the fact that this problem and the meaning and purpose of these state objectives are not compatible due to environmental protection. [[Abg. Jarolim: Gerstl!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: The Gerstl said that!]] – Mr Wittmann, I already believe that ecology and economy must and can be tolerated. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Do it now!]] I'll come back to that. Sepp Schellhorn has spoken of KU 2 as being abolished, but at the same time concerning the State objective of economic location – says: Ensuring jobs – spoken of by hot air. I don't know how this is compatible: against the economic location, but the KU 2 will be abolished – it probably won't work either. We have been aware of the fact that the Republic also has the right to apply to the economic location, which is of course also important as a sign of external importance. I am of the opinion that: If we do not understand our important projects, which are also designed to provide better ecological conditions, to break through – I say only local development law – then in the future we will have a huge problem to get overflighted from the closer international economic sectors. [[Abg. Schellhorn: During location development...!]] For example, Sepp Schellhorn, the third slopes can be mentioned in Vienna. There you can discuss how to do it, but if we do not expand it there if we leave our aircraft in the waiting loops in the future because the capacity is too low, then we already have to be clear that these aircraft will not be operated to Vienna, but Pressburg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] And we're probably not going to want to do that either, because that's no good for us ecologically at all. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl.]] A crucial argument for this economic location, for this interaction of ecology and economy, is the expansion of hydropower in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] In this government, we have decided to increase the sustainable growth of hydropower in Austria, with all the facilities needed to protect not only flora and fauna, but also to substantially improve habitats. But what is actually the case? – We have the problem that, in a Natura 2000 area, we will not be able to prevent the breakthrough of saltach and inn if we are not allowed to integrate cross-structures. Now we can say that we can build cross-structures there very well under the International Water Framework Directive – but what is the problem? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] As soon as we integrate turbines into these transverse structures, which are necessary to prevent the cargo of equipment, we say: If we want to make hydroelectric power plants out of it, we must not do that from the Natura 2000 point of view. [[Abg. Loacker: This does not change an economic goal either!]] It can't really be! Let me give you another example from the field of hydropower. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's absurd! That's absurd!]] Mr Wittmann, that you can't follow everywhere is of course for me. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: So this is weird!]] The following is probably very important for this economic location: that, for example, in the case of power plant chains, where the important and efficient power plants would need to be set up, we get Natura 2000 problems – say Lambach – and that where it would be necessary to bring out better performance, we are prevented by environmental requirements. [[continuing calls at SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: You don't know each other!]] That is why it is important to bring about a balance between forces so that ecology and economics are not a contradiction. This is a very special and great concern to me. [[Abg. Loacker: Admirable that you do not laugh yourself!]] Of course, the need to force employment through this new State objective is obvious. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Loacker, Mr Vogl and Mr Wittmann.]] That this employment policy should also contribute significantly to prosperity, which I believe should also be seen as a consensus by all parties in our Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12705	Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12726	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite bizarre to listen to the speakers of the government parties and to realize that not even the government parties can clearly explain why this is so urgently needed here today. Isn't that embarrassing to you? [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's about show policy, and I think that's what's at the heart of today's show policy: the Turquoise and Blue show policy, which doesn't bring any entrepreneur, no entrepreneur in this country. [[Abg. Hauser: Well, then ask the entrepreneurs! Ask the hazelsteiner!]] You know, there are certain advantages in putting yourself into the role of the citizen for a few weeks, not following every discussion on Twitter and looking at politics a little bit from a distance. On the one hand, it can be seen that, on the other hand, a case of individual cases of right-wing ruckpser unfortunately dominates the internal debate and, on the other hand, that nothing actually happens substantially. Nothing happens. What you're doing here as a Turquoise Blue is show policy: Announcements, headlines. Substantial policy, which really deals with the essential issues of the future, does not take place. [[Abg. Hauser: Then talk to the entrepreneurs!]] Let us take the example of tax reform, the urgent relief of people in Austria! Sepp Schellhorn has shown this impressive graphic the wage increases from 1990 to 2019 by 210 percent and the increases in wage tax by 355 percent. [[a table with a chart showing wage and wage tax developments, keeping up to date]] What are you doing? – They stand up and talk about the biggest tax reform of all time. [[Call the FPÖ: Is she too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] It does not in any way correspond to what ÖVP and FPÖ promised before the election, namely a discharge of 14 billion euros, 16 billion euros per year, it does not attack the cold progression contrary to their promises and makes it clear that taxpayers themselves are paying for this reform. They seem to me like sorcerers in whom people say: Okay, we know it's a trick, but this time we look at how they do it, how they pull us over the table! – This is your announcement policy in this tax reform, a single disappointment. Let us also look at the other discharge packages or steps! What happened? A reduction in additional wage costs? – Mrs. Minister, you insist here that we should injunctify something. Do you know what the business location really needs? – A relief for entrepreneurs, namely taxes, compulsory contributions, additional labour costs and, by the way, bureaucracy. [[Abg. Deimek: Did your friends understand about the SPÖ?]] This strengthens the economic location, which also helps workers. For decades the entrepreneurs have heard in this country: The additional wage costs are to be reduced. For decades they have been able to rely on the respective government to ensure that this does not happen. Yes, we will do everything in our power to finally achieve a reduction in additional wage costs in Austria. If you want a two-thirds majority, we will use all our power for it. Another thing: If you want to strengthen the economic location – and I would like to add a little to what we discussed earlier – then you need to strengthen the internal market in Europe. You cannot, as the government party FPÖ, hold an anti-European discussion first and explain in a sense that we do not need the internal market, that everything should happen again Austrianally, and say in the next breath: We need to strengthen the economic location! - That's not going to happen! It is also not for the ÖVP that the chancellor, at one time, is embarrassingly populist against the internal market. If You are opposed to regulations if you are in favour of deregulation, if you are for red tape reduction, then do it in Austria, then follow our requests for a standard control Senate, then follow our requests to a deregulation committee, then finally unravel the trade order! [[Abg. Kühberger: Reasons!]] Do you know what the big difference between real politics and show policy – and the entrepreneurs now know – is: Don't talk! [[Abg. Hauser: Are very satisfied, entrepreneurs!]] Unfortunately, nothing happens. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true! That's a nonsense!]] One last thing: You know you don't get approval today, so I asked myself: What are you talking about? We, the Federal Minister Schramböck, met us once in December, I told you that we are in favour of reducing the additional wage costs, and I also recorded this in writing. I have made the offer that if you make just one request, we will go along with the chamber housing 2 now – save in pure form in the system. You didn't even answer me. Now I know, maybe talk. You can't talk to the club lady, but you could send your clubman from the ÖVP to talk to me once. It is not about substantial discharges from entrepreneurs. It's a pure show for you. It's about saying again today: Government against opposition! That's what you want. - That's bad. That's what's going on in this country, zero meters. We are certainly not available to polarize, split, show policy – for this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] [[Abg. Haubner: Go!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12884	Mr Fürlinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e12905	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to thank NEOS' clubwoman for the information about what's show. You're a real political pro. So that you do not have to justify why you do not agree to a sensible request, stand out from it and make the matter wrong, turn off from the very core and also talk the untruth, but the woman minister has given you the right and right answer. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn]] [[Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Schellhorn: Oh so! Where? Where is the untruth? What untruth?]] – The untruth that we are not doing anything; Mrs. Minister has long given you the answer, explains what we have done, only then do you always look for lazy excuses so that you do not have to agree, but you will give the entrepreneurs as voters at the next election anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] We'll talk about it then, not now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In contrast to your show policy, I come back to the matter: Yes, Mr Noll, of course, you can talk about whether you need a package text in a federal constitution, whether you have to point out certain things, whether you are writing a wish concert as a preface. But if you do – and this House has decided to do so – I think that you should write the package text completely and put all the warnings or wishes in it. As valuable as environmental protection is, as valuable as animal protection is – things we all want – it is not enough to formulate that as the only, high-state goal, because what we want in this country is – and there we all agree – prosperity that people have work, that we have a functioning economy, because that is the condition of the other. If people are well, then they are good because there is a functioning economy and a functioning ecology. I was a little surprised today, ladies and gentlemen, that two colleagues have come here, who actually need to know Austrian plant law, state nature protection laws, water law and also commercial plant law. If you know and know what this is like when you look for an operating permit, what you're going through, and that at the end of the day there's certainly nothing more harmful to the environment, I'm surprised that colleagues are coming here and saying: [[Abg. Schellhorn: Yes, who created the law?]] There is a contradiction between ecology and economy, between the economy and the environment. This artificial contradiction, which you, Mr Wittmann, have referred to here, does not exist. This contradiction is not present. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] You really need to know that very well, and I'm also convinced that you know it. So it makes little sense for you to make yourself here and claim the opposite and wish anyone a defeat. The only defeat you produce here is the defeat for prosperity in this country, is the defeat for you and your works councils, which then have fewer employees to represent, but if this is your goal, your national goal, then we must take note of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13001	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13023	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! From history, the state objectives have been introduced as a consideration that one did not want to make novels in simple legal provisions, but rather that one wanted to formulate a confession that defined a total task of the state – namely the federal government, the countries and also the municipalities. Since 1980, state objectives have been formulated in the Federal Constitution. The most extensive discussion we had in this regard was in the 2003-2005 Convention, and in 2013 the National Council introduced, in addition to comprehensive environmental protection, animal welfare, water and food security and the principle of sustainability in the use of natural resources, and incorporated them into constitutional law. There is a fundamental consensus that state objectives should be used and taken into account in each legislative project, in judicial decisions. But to whom do workers' rights benefit if we have a competitive economic location at the expense of the environment when the planet is broken? The young people show us every Friday that it is an important concern for them to work for this earth on which they live. [[Call the FPÖ:School black!]] Again: What is useful if we have a well-functioning economic location when the planet is broken? I do not want to take China as an example, because the world is looking at China because the industry is shutting down there for three days so that people can see a blue sky. – I don’t want that for us here in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second question I have to ask is: Or is this draft something you, dear ÖVP, have to deliver to the industry that has supported you very generously in your advertising? There is also no government target for workers. There is no government target for social compensation – that would be a very important concern to me. I cannot imagine that it will be easy to develop workers' rights, to develop working time opportunities, to develop workers' rights in such a way that workers are not exploited by their employers when they face corporate interests. Despite the state objective of environmental protection, Austria, Mr. Ottenschlager, has become a top economic location in Europe and in the world. While Europe is promoting environmental and climate protection policies, the Federal Chancellor sets up his Kapperl just as he needs it, saying, on the one hand, that climate protection needs a pan-European solution, and on the other hand in Austria is doing exactly the opposite. I have listened to Mrs Evelyn Regner's speech from the European Parliament, which she has held during the current hour of Europe, and must say that we Social Democrats wish us a Europe of people and not a Europe of corporations. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] What does this Federal Government want? – This Federal Government wants to amend the law on the basis of the controversial judgment concerning the third slopes at Vienna Airport. What is the approach? – The first attempt at the Constitutional Committee in October failed, so a deadline request was decided last week. What does a deadline request mean? – Discussion not desired, questions of the opposition not at all desired. It is to be implemented what this Federal Government wishes. Mr Gerstl, you said it treacherously in your remarks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] We need a counterweight in order to set the state objective on environmental protection! And then I read in a broadcast of the Economic Federation on economic policy: We need the state objective to have an important lever in economic policy. – Ladies and gentlemen, what do you really want to do? Where exactly is the cracking point for us to agree to the draft? We will certainly not vote for the two-thirds majority in favour of this draft government target, because it is free of use: a state objective that represents diametrical environmental protection – workers, workers – corporations; and for that we will never give our vote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13081	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13108	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, you said that you heard of the NEOS only “getting”. In psychology, such a thing is called a projection when one sees one's own on the other. I remember the loud talk about the digital office, which has four functions, two of which don't work at all – but that's your problem. Let's come to the location Austria to which you're supposed to be. The Austrian site is about the international comparison. If we compare internationally now, we could get the tax system back. Deloitte has made a tax survey, and it turns out that 66 percent believe that the Austrian tax system is particularly complicated, and 61 percent complain of the frequent changes in the tax system. This concerns the location in the international comparison. They could also look at the burden of the labour factor, which is 47 percent in Austria, 41 percent in the EU, and 27 percent in Ireland. There's something you could do. Ten letters in the Constitution do not change this at all. With regard to social contributions for an average earner, Austria is third in the EU, only Hungary and France have higher social contributions for an average earner. [[Abg. Stefan: This is a plea for the state targets!]] What Does Your government? – It reduces unemployment insurance contributions and health insurance contributions for part-time workers, but the average earnings will continue to have to pay full length. The pensions: If during this legislative period the pensions are the most growing budget items when over a quarter of the budget for pensions goes up, then you have to reform there if you want to relieve the economy and if you want to relieve the workers, because only if this remains more money will you get a discharge – but in the area of pensions you do nothing at all. It's about Austria's location, you say, and if you compare the location of Austria with other European countries, then your actions will only leave the state-target economy in the Constitution – hollow words; and with hollow words you won't change anything. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You would have liked to put these hollow words in the Constitution, but then the same burden on work remains, then the same huge pension expenditure remains, and then the same complex tax system remains. They don't change anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13150	No one is reporting on this. So I close the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 598 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. [[Call:Invaded]] [[On-going calls at SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Bad prepared! Very poorly prepared!]] – The present draft law has not been adopted with the required two-thirds majority. There is no law of the National Council within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. That is why the third reading is missing. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Pillow.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues and colleagues, on the ‘State objective of the economy – it needs more than ten letters in the Constitution’. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Abg. Rädler: That's it now!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a voting process and I ask for some rest. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gerstl, Mr Stefan, and others, on 'balanced consideration of general government objectives in the legal system'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. (E 73) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (592 D.B._Other Organiser [[13:40:26]] Federal Law amending the KommAustria Act (597 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13255	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Noll. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13282	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! The main objective is to increase funding for the RTR, which is to promote private broadcasting in Austria. Overall, the conditions of support remain the same. In my view, it is rightly assumed that broadcasting is still a dominant medium in Austria and of public interest. Austria has opted for a dual broadcasting system, which is why, of course, a promotion of private broadcasting operators is also quite okay. There's no difference. But there is a difference, of course, when you look more closely. With this EUR 5 million or an additional EUR 15 million from the digitalisation tax, the possibility of private TV operators to produce public value will be increased. I'm skeptical of whether this will work alone. There is a need for greater effort – and only in that respect does Parliament's correspondence properly reflect what I said in the Committee, namely that I consider these funds to be too little. There must be much greater effort. However, the real point of criticism lies elsewhere; it has two aspects. The first aspect is: Here, Minister Blümel referred to this in the Committee, an increase in funds is only made for commercial channels. It is right that the number of applications has increased in recent years, that there is a further increase in the number of applications. host – not just candidates – is available. I mean, however, that can and should not be done today if one does not at the same time promote the non-commercial providers in this area. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] This has not been done, and in so far as I do not think it is quite wrong to predict this increase in funds, there is nothing necessarily to promote democracy and autonomy. There should be much more done here for non-commercial broadcasters than has been done so far. The second aspect is even more fundamental: For the past year and day, we have been waiting for a proposal on how to deal with the ORF, with public broadcasting. So far, we don't know anything about this. I am skeptical of whether it makes sense to spread this – although small – over the private, if you do not yet know how to deal with the ORF in terms of content, how to deal with the ORF financially and what the prospect is for the new time of cooperation between public and private individuals. Overall, therefore, we have failed to approve this draft, which clearly will not prevent the change in terms of resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13330	The next item is the speech by Mr Nehammer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13352	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yes, it is a pity, Mr Noll, that you do not agree, because I believe and we in the Federal Government believe that it is very, very important to also promote these media in order to maintain the diversity of the media in Austria. But I would like to talk about one aspect that we noticed, which will also be important to you, Mr Noll: We want to put in another amendment to the KommAustria Act, because we have insisted that training funding, which has so far been common and which has been fed from the private broadcasting fund, cannot now be done. All of us here in the House should be important and worth further promoting especially in the field of private broadcasting, not only the content, but also the training of journalists. This requires a change, and to this end I am tabling an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for this request because it must be our common goal to maintain the diverse media location of Austria and to further promote the training of journalists in the private sector. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[13:46]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13480	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13512	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! In principle: If you confess to the dual system, you also have to finance the dual system and promote the dual system. We are therefore also committed to promoting private television channels and, of course, we are also committed to increasing this promotion. In our view, it is somewhat too modest, because we believe that we should make much more of advocating it, but we should also commit it to Austrian content in the future. If a person receives promotions, he should also bring Austrian content in the future, and one should certainly think about how to prescribe this also in terms of quotas and law. If you don't get any support, it's something else; but if you use Austrian funding, you should do it. We will also vote in favour of the amendment, because this is a manko, as has been the case in the Committee's discussion. It is only positive to assess that this is now being eliminated. But it is interesting – not in this law – that is a very consensus-based field, except for the representatives of JETZT: We always present this really important field of the ORF outside. No one knows – perhaps you already know, Minister; we do not know anything about it – what you are planning with the ORF. Given the statements of the Freedom Party I have heard in recent months, I fear and fear how to deal with the freedom of the press in this country. If you still make the dependence on the budget, you have to go and beg, if you are to send contributions that some editor is no longer accepted, and if he is no longer accepted, then there is no more money: Such contributions are not beneficial if we want to maintain the press location and the media location of Austria and, in particular, the independence of the media. On the occasion of the discussion in the Committee on Fees, these issues have come into the field of the possibility: that one makes the ORF dependent on the appointment of the editors depending on what they say, what they have to say, what they have to write – and only then there is money from the government. – I think this is an incredible process. These reports have been put into the Chamber by the representatives of the Freemans to say goodbye to the financing of fees and to turn them into budget funding. This would mean that the independence of the media is seriously threatened. This is going towards Orbán, and we don't want to do that under any circumstances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would be highly appropriate to enter this discussion process on the ORF so that you can know where the journey is going. But there is our agreement to this law, because it is in itself a reasonable arrangement.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13566	The next item is Mr Jenewein. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13587	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before we move back to an ORF financing debate, I would like to return the debate to the real issue. I believe that what Mr Nehammer said can only be supported on this question. It is about promoting media diversity. Today's bill alone shows that this federal government is very serious about it, because it's a sense of ambiguity to say that costs are constantly rising. Of course, the costs, not only for the ORF, but also for the private providers, also need more money. Now it says: Well, it would have been better to have more! – I believe that, Mr Wittmann, of course it would be more and more beautiful to have. There will probably hardly be a company in this country, which does not say it would prefer more money and more and more. I would like to say a word about the comments made by Mr Noll, who spoke of the increase in funds for non-commercials: This is a subject that we should discuss even more intensively, because I do not think the federal government is in favour of promoting regional programmes. In my opinion, the Federal Government is here to promote the federal programmes. The problem of non-commercials is that they are usually limited regionally and on the one hand regional support via the countries and on the other hand funding via the federal government. One should ask, at all events, whether one does not put funding on new legs and who is to finance the non-commercials, which are mostly limited to regional areas. As far as the request made by Mr Nehammer is concerned, in principle everything has been said: Yes, the training of journalists is important to us, and yes, we expressly confess to that. This initiative alone also shows that the sick talk of freedom of the press in the Republic is actually a brain-spinning of those who then like to take this for party-politically motivated reasoning chains to show: Well, look at this right-wing conservative government in Austria, which in its final effect wants to limit nothing but freedom of expression! - We don't want to. It is also clear that we do not want to, and everyone who takes the situation seriously comes to this conclusion. But of course it is equally clear to me that it is also the business of the opposition to inculcate one or another. It is only always necessary to be careful in the intensified debate that not someone goes into the trap of this propaganda at some point in time, and at the end of the day you may still believe it yourself. That would be the worst thing at all, because nothing is worse than going to glue on your own propaganda. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is something that does not help anyone, neither in Austria nor around Europe. These are the problems in which European observers then look at Austria and say: Well, if journalists in Austria are already under pressure, what can we believe about this country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] I can tell you quite honestly that if I look at these rankings, in which a state like Jamaica, Mr Noll, is held before Austria, as far as freedom of the press is concerned, I think that freedom of the press in Austria is less problematic, but rather those who make and publish such surveys, if they consider them, there is more freedom in Jamaica than in Austria. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Noll]] A freedom may exist in some locals in which some substances are consumed, but as far as freedom of the press is concerned, I think we are well positioned in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13648	President. — The debate is closed. - Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13685	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I may also be able to say a few words about this draft. The fundamental challenge is that we are living in media politics at a completely different time than ten years ago. While ten years ago the public-laws with the Austrian private have always held public debates about who should get how much money, who should get how much of funding, the game is now quite different. Meanwhile, everyone has seen that the real challenge is the one that threatens all together by the Gafas – the Googles, Amazons, Facebooks and Apples of this world. In fact, these large global corporations are the only ones who still make profits in digital space, which are still being advertised there. They are, in fact, the only ones who are economically viable. This presents Austrian media policy and, consequently, democracy policy, if one wants to do so, a crucial challenge. We need media pluralism in Austria based on the dual system – we confess to that. But if we don't do anything, it won't be preserved. In order to strengthen the local private – so that there are also plural private television and media offers in the future – it also needs a possibility of start-up funding, promotion increase, so that new offers, new products aimed at Austrian content can be produced. As regards private broadcasting, the number of providers increased by around 45 percent between 2013 and 2018, from five to nine. Since at least one increase by a quarter is now taking place, the minimum is the minimum. I am glad that this is feasible at the federal level despite a balanced budget. I am also glad – that is not the present, but this will also be the case in the future – that we have to make at least a small contribution for the first time in the context of the digital corporate taxation introduced by the Austrian Federal Government, and because of which Google, Facebook et cetera, must make at least a small contribution, because they deserve very well in Austria, 15 million euros for the transformation process of local private individuals in the digital area. We are working on the exact mechanism for submitting projects. We are also working on the ORF law addressed, in which the basic direction, as I have always said, will be that the ORF will be preserved as a strong public-law, but must also re-understand itself, away from the competitor. Homely private to the partner of the local private media landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13731	The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13752	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! On the one hand, the foundation of a democracy is a debate that has been aroused, as here in the House, and on the other hand, a well-founded information for citizens, an information that is clear and gives guidance on the decisions to be made and on the scope of decisions. This information is to be provided objectively in the ideal case, i.e. objectively, unbiased and value-neutral. Of course, media play a major role in this, because no matter where people are today, they can always provide themselves better, faster and more comprehensively with information. It has never been so easy to share in world affairs. This fullness of information also means a certain power, and this power means a great responsibility, on the one hand, responsibility for the media operators – that is why we will also promote the training of journalists through this new law and amendment request – and on the other hand also a great responsibility for consumers, because they need the competence – the word media competence – to classify and evaluate the information received. We need transmission formats that convey the need for factual examinations, promote critical thinking, make the evaluations and enable people to distinguish between opinions and facts. Of course, at the same time all media houses and all media companies are under a certain pressure, because they divide the cake with each other, as far as consumers are concerned, and also the printing of Google and Facebook is getting bigger and bigger. This is probably also the reason that we sometimes drift into a sensational society and an exhilaration society, which is only more of outrageous. In any case, a clarification of information and debates would be good. However, the diversity of reporting on the events in Austria and in the world is of course also important. This should be pluralistic and not one-sided, especially for private broadcasters. With this law we improve the support for private broadcasting operators and increase them from 15 to 20 million euros. These grants are granted objectively on the basis of RTR directives. I am glad that the Austrian radio market is today as diverse as it has never been; it also manages to transport its own Austrian content, thus strengthening the Austrian identity a lot – we must continue to pay attention to it and this must continue to be maintained and promoted. With the increase of the private broadcasting fund, we contribute to further supporting our domestic broadcasting industry, television and radio. I would like to thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13794	The next item is the speech by Mr Erasim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e13816	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Blümel, you have already mentioned for yourself how you estimate your work, namely as a ‘minimum measure’. As a minimum, we also see the increase in this funding from EUR 15 million to EUR 20 million – a single measure. It does not include non-commercial broadcasting. Mr Jenewein has said that she ought to be put on completely new legs. - Who prevents you from doing so? Work something, do something at last and submit proper legislative proposals! [[Abg. Jenewein: What have you done in recent years?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The promotion of digital media is also lacking. Also in the field of fake news: There are some platforms that are decided against, for example Kobuk and Mimikama. Promotion opportunities for such platforms are completely omitted. [[Abg. Belakovich: Fake News from the SPÖ! The SPÖ doesn't know!]] What it needs is an overarching package, which is available at the end of the 21st century. In the 19th century, digital media are also included, not only those media that are positive about the government. We see how the media are permanently attacked, and that also has consequences. I would like to refer to the report by the human rights organisation reporters without frontiers: As regards freedom of the press, Austria, according to this report, has deteriorated alarmingly, namely by five ranks. I would like to ask you, Minister of State: How do you deal with your behaviour and the conduct of your government under your aegis as a minister of the media – you do not need to look away and act as if you were not going to do anything about it – such an important asset as freedom of the press, a pillar of democracy that is being damaged like this?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Federal Minister Blümel takes up his smartphone and turns away from the speaker]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But can he still sit down?! Is he allowed to sit?]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They are among those who damage these fundamental rights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And the Federal Minister is sitting here smiling. That's what you have to say, that's something the government really can do: smile. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:... Full holder!]] – However, most of the political problems do not allow themselves to smile away, but that includes proper work and a proper understanding of it. [[Abg. Wöginger: You have passed away laughing!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:The SPÖ has no understanding at all!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] One thing I must say to the appointment of Odin Wiesinger, an artist clearly allied to the National Socialist ideology, already, Minister: [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Hey, what did you eat?- Oh, my God!]] In the past, it would have been unthinkable to put an artist who published a series of images entitled “End Victory” into such a body. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Schimanek: This is inconceivable! An unspoiled person!]] You sit here silently and sacrifice our rule of law and democracy – shame yourself for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] As social democracy, we demand: Stop the attacks! Stop the attacks on journalists and the ORF! Make sure you have real freedom of the press! Do not rely on individual measures, but on an overall package representing the diversity of the media landscape and the 21st edition. The first century is going to be fair! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14023	Mr Brückl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14048	The MP of the SPÖ has claimed that the artist Manfred – Odin – Wiesinger has created a series of images entitled “End Victory”. I'm correcting: It is a picture with this title, and this picture arose at the beginning of the 1990s on occasion and in relation to the Yugoslavian war. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] [[Call the FPÖ:Listen!]] [[Abg. Erasim: Painful! Painful!]] If you are spreading something here, please inform yourself beforehand!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14108	Next, Mrs Yildirim is speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14145	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, do you have problems listening to a woman? I ask you to respect this already, even if women are here on the pult! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, please do not scare the young voters up there on the gallery! [[Abg. Mölzer: Say something smart, then we listen!]] Anxiety Please don't ask our young voters! These are still idealists who believe that this Parliament is making serious policies for citizens. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A colorful, diverse and independent media landscape was and is a great concern for us, and this also when critical statements are made in media to the SPÖ. The fact that this German government from ÖVP and FPÖ is actually the same may be called into question on account of some of the events that have occurred since you took office. We are concerned; in this context, I only remember Austria's slipping off in the international ranking on freedom of the press – legitimate concern, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Steger: Stop it...!]] Recently, one has even distanced oneself in a cultural programme from a contribution about the German satirist Jan Böhmermann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Obviously, fear and terror reign at the ORF! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Complete nonsense!]] Even though some satires may shoot beyond the target: Every human being should have the opportunity to judge this for himself. It is neither worthy of Austrian democracy nor dangerous if, for any reason, there are restrictions in reporting. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, media promotion for commercial private television and radio will be increased from EUR 15 million to EUR 20 million. This increase is absolutely sensible, we will agree. New legislation will include the explicit objective of promoting media competence through television. The question may be as follows: Why only in the way of television? – We have actually arrived in the age of digitization, i.e. most of the news is used online or filtered through social media. There are numerous cases of hate postings or the spread of fake news. [[Abg. Steger: Yes, for example, from the SPÖ!]] Passwords are hacked, and there are interesting details – unpleasant by the way; I condemn that. Especially in this area there is a lack of media competence. Although the Fund may not be responsible for this, the Federal Government does not give any answers to the important questions relating to digitisation. She does not face these challenges. In this context, we also need to talk about those funds that are not increased: the press promotion, the television fund or the promotion of non-commercial media. – Why do we not increase the promotion of non-commercial media? The number of suppliers, Mr. Federal Minister, has also increased there. Especially non-commercial media – initiatives such as free radios that report quite critically and versatilely – are often operated with heart blood and idealism. Let us talk about improving working conditions in journalism! This should also be focused on and, if necessary, be bound up with funding, because there are some very well deserved journalists, but the conditions under which work has changed fundamentally in recent years. It has become an industry in which precarious working conditions and self-exploitation are quite on the agenda. We can support what we decide here and today on a proposal from the Government, but it is really a single measure and not a large throw; many important questions remain open.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14251	I conclude the debate, as no one has made any mention of this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 592 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nehammer, Mr Jenewein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Mr Nehammer, Mr Jenewein, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning the insertion of point 2a and amendment to point 6. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That is, in turn, the majority, accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[14:12:20]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Industry and Energy on the 2018 SME Report of the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location (III-232/529 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14321	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Rossmann is the first to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14348	We are now discussing the SME report, which is also very central to the issue of digital transformation. It is beyond question that the digital transformation opens up opportunities, but it also poses risks – risks and challenges, especially for the labour market and labour market conditions. Thankfully, the report also points to page 1, which is about platform work, crowdworking and minijobs. However, some of the issues are also addressed directly: monotonous work, continuous and increasing electronic surveillance, insufficient legal and social security, poor pay, lack of co-determination, lack of health and safety protection. I asked the Minister, both in the Committee and in the course of a Question Time, what she intends to do in the light of these challenges and these problems of the group concerned in the labour market, and I asked her to put this into practice. I have never received an answer, Mrs Minister; I therefore repeat my question today. By reading the report, however, one cannot defend the impression that it contains an implied answer, namely the 12-hour day and the 60-hour week. That, you say in the report itself, modernizes labour law. My answer, Mrs Minister, to these challenges, at least to some of these challenges, is quite another one. If we want to avoid digital transformation and its partly negative effects on the labour market and working conditions and to maintain productivity for small and medium-sized enterprises, we need a reduction in normal working time. When we discussed the 12-hour day and the 60-hour week here in this House, I would point out again and again: We need a reduction in the weekly working time with full pay compensation. [[Consistency with JETZT and the Abg. Lindner.]] It can also be explained why. I mean, science has put this very clearly on the table, and we don't need to discuss it for long. Long working hours increase the risk of accidents, lead to physical and psychological stress, to decreasing performance, to injuries and permanent diseases. An increase in working time can therefore also be economically completely counterproductive and have a negative impact on value added. It is therefore not a coincidence that countries with shorter working hours have average productivity. Therefore, today and here I make a request for a reduction in working time, which we can also afford, because productivity has doubled since the last reduction in working time in the 1970s: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[14:17]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14494	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation because it is properly submitted and sufficiently supported. The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14518	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I am very glad that we can discuss the SME report today. I would also like to thank you very much for this report. Thank you to the creators! It's a good report, and you see, Austria is a good economic location. It is attractive as never before, internationally recognized, successful and best networked. I would have liked to say the following: A very up-to-date Imas survey also shows that two thirds of entrepreneurs in Austria say that the economic location is developing in the right direction. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Angerer, Mr Gudenus and Mr Höbart.]] I think this is a clear signal that we in Austria are making the right economic policy in the sense of location and jobs. The report also impressively points out that the Austrian entrepreneurs do a great deal of work day after day, week after week. In the international field, of course, they also achieve top performances, and for this we also want to say a sincere thank you from this point on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It's true: SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, are the stable pillar of our economy. They employ, and this also shows the report, two thirds of the workforce and create training places for tens of thousands of young people, and thus opportunities for the future, which in turn are linked to safe jobs. The good relationship between employers and employees in our businesses is also a guarantee of the success of our home country. Only today has a supplement been published in the press: “Austria’s best family business”. [[The speaker keeps the above-mentioned supplement up and leaves it.]] Thankfully, one reads in it: Haglitner Hygiene is the family entrepreneur of the year. Mr Haglitner employs a thousand employees, and he says that the success is the innovative products, but above all the great Pinzgau employees. – Here, too, you can see the good relationship between employers and employees. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] I think we should continue to build on this and we can also be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The report also shows the mix of large, small, medium-sized and individual enterprises. We believe – and the confession goes very clearly in this direction – that economy is indivisible. We need large businesses, industrial companies and control companies. In this we are very different from the SPÖ, because of course it does not have much left for the economic location and it is also permanently placarded, as is now seen in the EU election campaign. In this respect, I think, we know where economic competence is at home, especially with our Mrs Minister. – Thank you for your commitment and for the ideas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has 200 leading companies, which are very important for the location. They co-operate with 90 000 SMEs, and this cooperation is a key success factor. We know that jobs only create entrepreneurs. We are called upon to support them in what we do, on the one hand, on the one hand, and, on the other, on the other, on the other, in appreciation of their achievements. We have therefore put in place many measures during this legislative period to make the economic location even more attractive. Unlike colleagues Rossmann, we are in favour of flexibilising working time – more freedom, more self-responsibility – so we have also forced working time flexibility and implemented it during this legislative period. It is a win-win situation for employers and employees, which is very welcome from all sides. In addition, the following points are implemented: an increase in the quotas for workers from third countries, the apprenticeship offensive, deregulation, the first abolition of 40 measures in the context of the anti-gold placement, the aggregation of social security funds and a tax reform that prevents additional burdens on entrepreneurs. That means we remain faithful to our motto – relief instead of burden – ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, let me briefly summarize: It is the business middle class that carries the country; they are those who create jobs and give thousands of young people a future. The sum of successful individual companies, classic small and medium-sized enterprises and leading and industrial enterprises – this is the entrepreneurship medium-sized company, which is the guarantee of success for our economy. Our country needs this middle class. – Thank you for your commitment!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14591	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14612	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to replicate briefly on my previous speaker Peter Haubner. Our EU election campaign slogan is “Human instead of Group”. We do not want owners of companies to become more and more rich, but we want to know the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, as you have already said – and that is true: this is the stable pillar in Austria – strengthened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, three issues have recently become public, all of which are very alarming. According to media reports on Facebook, the FPÖ clubman uses “healing” as a password. [[Abg. Gudenus: According to media reports!]] The economic upturn is going back, the economy is flattening. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== It is forecast that economic growth for 2019 is unfortunately only 1.7 percent. A year ago we spoke of 2.2 percent, so we are clearly below it. This means that the decline in unemployment is ending. According to Wifo, this also means that the unemployment rate will be around 7 percent commuting and 400 000 people in Austria will be unemployed. Yes, the economic downturn for the domestic economy, for all of us, represents a huge task for the population – a huge problem, I would mean –. Experts, Mrs Minister, say this already today and the Federal Government strongly recommends that this be countered. It needs ideas now, it needs concrete concepts, Mrs. Minister! I see this with a crying eye, that neither in committee nor here in plenary we are presented with a counter-acting measure – concepts, ideas. We as SPÖ have great concerns, as has been said, that Black-Blue is slumbering this development, which we are just standing before – namely that the economy is going back – and we wake up in a recession. That is why it was also very important for us not only to say what does not work, what the Federal Government does not do right; we have presented an economic package which is also clearly addressing the problems I have mentioned, and we are trying to capture what we are currently experiencing in the economy in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the SMEs in our country are the stable pillar that sets the backbone for the Austrian economy – my previous speaker confirmed this. We must therefore constantly support them and ensure that they can invest, because only by this will they remain competitive and can compete with other companies, whether domestic or foreign. In order to ensure that these investments do not fail during the economic downturn, Mrs Minister, incentives must be created. Such an incentive, as we have presented on the part of social democracy in the economic programme, would, for example, be the introduction of a temporary early depreciation as a whole, very important measure. This would be a tax incentive for all these companies, which can lead to more employment and economic growth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would advise you from the bottom of my heart and in all honesty: Take our business package at hand in a quiet hour, read it through and think about it! I'd be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14664	Mr Gudenus spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14698	Yes, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Mrs H.-H., I would really like to correct the statements made by my previous speaker: She said I was using a certain password in the social media sector or in e-mail accounts. That's not true. The right thing is: I was hacked three years ago: several email accounts as well as my Facebook page. A number of consequences are resulting, and the legal path is still under review. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: What was the password like?]] – Do you want to know my password?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14733	The next item is the speech by Mr Klinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14754	Madam President. Minister! High house! At the beginning of this debate, Bruno Rossmann referred to the mid-term report as a reduction of working time in full pay after the 12-hour day. I ask myself the question: What's Bruno Rossmann riding that he's talking about a 12-hour day? [[Call the SPÖ: He's right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] This is, in fact, a necessary flexibility of working time for our economy, especially for the small and medium-sized economy; no one is forced to work for 12 hours. That's just the untruth. The fact is that it is now possible to also work outside of a place within 12 hours, further away, and to come home on the same day or to work 48 hours within four days. This can be chosen by any employee. Since 1984 I have been a single entrepreneur in two very difficult sectors, in the transport industry and since 2004 in the hospitality industry; I am trying to bear full responsibility for my employees. I am also trying to create the best climate for my employees. In the area of flexibility of working hours, I know very well that my employees greatly appreciate this new flexibilization. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not know what is causing those Members to judge such a working time flexibility and to claim that this is now a 12-hour day. I also know very well that our employees give us the right to carry forward the interaction between entrepreneurs and employees. I agree with all my employees that they can determine their working time in their own interest as flexibly as possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] If you want to bring forward an economic location: We have already heard how important the medium-sized companies and small businesses are for this country, namely that they have provided and delivered best economic data through the highest possible use in times of crisis. A sincere thanks to our small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] What has this government done to achieve positive results for these small and medium-sized enterprises? – Of course, everything is always too little, there are many things we still have to do and what could improve the situation, but if I say that, for example, we have already abolished the Find-What-Decision from appreciation – that the auditors do not go out to the companies and say that now I will surely have something in my hand so that this company pays for punishment – that is, I think, a very, very important access for our companies. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's how it is!]] Furthermore, in order to help our SMEs better, we must also give him instruments that are now possible due to digitalisation and which will continue to be crucial to how many jobs we can recruit and how many future employees can be directed towards the new challenges. I say thank you for the offensive of digitization in teaching professions, which is an essential thing so that the teaching professions can be designed attractively, also going there, as the challenges of the professions in the digital field have become quite different. A two-year review – whether adequate or not – of these teaching professions, the corresponding designations, the explanations, all of which are decisions for our small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why I can conclude with this: This government has begun to secure the site through small and medium-sized enterprises and to give maximum support to small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14838	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14859	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! For the second time, we have a discussion on the economy and, above all, on small and medium-sized enterprises. I should like to make two points. The question I asked myself earlier: What does it actually say? Your boss on that? I hope you're still talking to your boss. He has said in the election campaign – and is still doing so – that we must protect the service providers and that the service providers in that country are not being punished. We have been talking about a shortage of skilled workers all the time, which is actually at the heart of my contribution to the discussion, namely the central point of the question: What are you doing about it? – You do nothing for the economy on this point. I'd like to tell you a story to remove the shortage of skilled workers. She actually affects my relatives in Vorarlberg or his family, but he doesn't live anymore. The mother is alone at home with three children, they run a hotel and a farm and find, because they live in the back valley – in Gargelen – in Vorarlberg, no employees. They don't get any employees. The woman needed above all a housemaster who agreed to go in the back To go to the valley and work there for a whole year or more. There's someone who'd do that, he's been looking for a full-year job for a long time, but he doesn't get it. This is not an individual case – nor was my relative a deserved ÖVP politician, the father was a deserved ÖVP-congregationar – that you reject such people, just as you are now pushing down apprentices. There is a case in Salzburg, where an entrepreneur also complains that his integrative apprentices are being postponed. The point is, your boss can be driven by the FPÖ, which does not solve this problem. [[towards Federal Minister Schramböck]] My question is: Do you even talk to him, he's talking to you? The next example concerns the reason why we have a shortage of skilled workers: The employees cost too much and earn too little. That's the cold progression. They punish the service providers by pulling more out of their pocket than you would return them with the tax reform. I believe that this is an dishonest policy you are pursuing. Maybe you're still here after me and you're saying, We do a lot for small and medium-sized enterprises!, but you do nothing, you do nothing, except Gags, Gags, Gags. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] I'm so angry because if you talk to the establishments, especially the tourist establishments, everyone will tell you: We have a shortage of skilled workers. We are not doing anything in education, we are not doing anything about training, we still have the maritime-theresian school age, even though the conditions have completely changed. We needed a medium-sized maturity to counter it, also to be able to meet the needs that will exist in 20 years. You're not doing anything! You do no more than you do in connection with a degressive depreciation, you do nothing. Minister Blümel spoke of so many laws that had been deleted: Do you know what laws have been deleted? – Dead laws have been deleted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] No red tape has yet happened, nothing has happened in the deregulation to this day, and that is precisely what concerns the middle class. Large businesses can afford their own legal offices, which are somewhat contradictory, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot do so; and they can be driven by the FPÖ before themselves. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is embarrassing for a former economic party, and therefore, so that more than ten letters on the economy are in the Constitution, it is particularly important that you finally do something. You haven't done anything to this day. The economy needs to compensate for the shortage of skilled workers, the economy needs a relief, and above all the economy needs a deregulation. Nothing has happened to this day.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14936	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e14957	Madam President. High house! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! The Austrian economic location is well on the go. Our economy is growing twice as fast as that of Germany, we have taken the right measures in the last one and a half years. We see this very clearly on the figures. If we want to see others, we only need to look at Germany, where many mistakes are made. Germany no longer has economic growth, Austria has a good economic growth for the companies, but especially for the employees in these companies. [[Abg. Rossmann: Now it is really time for an introduction to economics!]] It is precisely these workers who are forgetting both NEOS and SPÖ. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is also important that we take action. I can only give you a small overview of the measures we have taken. If we are always talking about the fact that we are not doing anything for small and medium-sized enterprises, I would like to tell you clearly what we have done in the framework of the tax reform. The reduction in corporate tax does not only concern large corporations, as is always claimed; They forget that there are small companies in Austria that pay corporate tax as well. We have increased our sales tax threshold from 30 000 to 35 000 euros – and this has not been done before. For the first time, we have increased the amount of low-value goods to 800 euros and in the next stage to 1 000 euros. I can't remember, and I've been running companies for many years that someone's been attacking and solving in recent years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another point for medium-sized companies in tax reform is employee participation. Yes, every company can take part in the profit of up to 10 percent today and in the future. Do you know what we introduced with that? – We have something like the possibility of a 15. This is not the case in the United Kingdom, but the United Kingdom, Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom. I can't remember that a social democracy would have implemented this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another point for small and medium-sized enterprises is debureaucratisation for 400 000 companies, because they do not have to spend so much red tape on the basis of the definition of the package in order to reduce their tax burden. Yes, even in research and development there is a point. So far, small and medium-sized enterprises, in which the entrepreneur has been involved, have not been able to reduce and submit this salary in order to get 14 percent refund. We have changed this for the medium-sized companies. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They have also rightly addressed the subject of experts. I would just like to say that there is an intensive work to be done in the field of skilled workers, and this work is not yet over, because we have taken over much that has remained. I'll give you a simple example: the roofers. The profession of the roof cover was last revised in 1973. I wonder who was here and whether the professions were being revised. We are doing this now by the end of the year, and at the end of this year 200 teaching professions are being revised. Why are we doing that? [[Abg. Rossmann: Because the ÖVP in the government...!]] – Because two thirds of the apprentices are employed in medium-sized companies. Two-thirds of all apprentices and two-thirds of all employees work in the medium-sized enterprises in Austria. It needs revised teaching professions and it needs completely new occupations, teaching professions that we are now introducing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the topic of professionals: What benefits and will medium-sized companies benefit from? – We are currently changing the Austrian Business Agency. It should not only be there to bring investments to Austria, but also help to find and find top professionals who cannot be found in us, IT experts, in the European area. That is also something I did not find, which was too little in the past. For the third stage, experts from third countries, we have adapted the list of failures – this is also true for medium-sized companies and is very important to them, as many new technical professions are cited – and we have introduced the regional shortage list. There is called for the West, for the touristists of the waiters. The review for the new red-and-white red card is also over, and we will also take appropriate steps in this regard. On the topic of medium-sized enterprises and asylum seekers and asylum seekers: We do not have 30 000 asylum seekers in Austria, of whom 10,000 are under 25 years of age, because they cannot work or do not have the lobby that those 1,000 asylum seekers, perhaps 300 of whom are not allowed to stay in Austria, because there is no reason for asylum. If you say we can solve the technical problem with these 300, I tell you: I wish for those who are entitled to asylum, namely those who are allowed to stay with us, the 30,000 who are allowed to stay here and have no work, an equally large lobby. I'm doing something for it: I have made a job market in Vienna, we have carried out one in Upper Austria – 21 companies in Upper Austria, 1,000 asylum seekers – with great success. In Vienna, 20 percent of those who were at this fair are now in employment; the next one is in Graz. So we do something in this sense and we do it in this sense. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is also to be said that start-ups are medium-sized companies. We have also launched a start-up initiative that will provide 100 million euros for start-ups in the field of innovative technology companies, creating a new fund. So we do a lot of things, much more is on our way. I can assure you that we will continue to follow up the SME report, that we will review it with your feedback – that has already been offered in the Economic Committee – in order to create a good basis and continue to be able to take care of the medium-sized companies of Austria. They are very important both at Austrian and European level. In this sense, we are committed to the medium-sized enterprises of Austria and Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15045	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15066	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I can very much welcome the silver lions from Mistelbach, former entrepreneurs, to us in the high house. – Welcome! [[It was a pleasure with ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as with the representatives of NEOS.]] I need to change my saying of lunch this afternoon: The regret is of the Schellhorn's lust!, it has now become. – Dear colleague, Mr Sepp! If I listen to you, what I have done very attentively, I am already feeling that our economic location and being a business owner here is a bit horrendous. I myself am an active entrepreneur and I feel very, very well in Austria, especially with the development that this Bun-de-Government has been making in the last one and a half years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] At least at the beginning of the last legislative period, Matthias Strolz has had a very good role to play, he has always put himself to the pult and said something positive, then to deliver his criticism – something quite legitimate – or his contributions. I hear here in recent weeks, months only that from your point of view everything is negative. I simply can't imagine that one can really argue that, for example, what is now happening in tax relief, where tax reform is concerned, only the employee bonus, the tax relief on income taxes, the increase in the amount of profit, the reduction in corporate tax, and, and, and so. [[Abg. Hauser: The population still sees it positive!]] The Federal Minister has already mentioned numerous measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] So I think you can make yourself here and say: In principle, the way is a real one, there are a few measures that we do not find so bad at all! and in addition, of course, there are more and more ideas that one can deliver, in which we also say as entrepreneurs: Yes, we would still like that, and we would still like it! We will certainly not let go of it, and I am convinced that the Federal Minister is an ally of our SMEs, but one, and we have an overall responsibility, we must not ignore it: We still have the goal of also having a balanced government budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We are also in this relationship. I believe that it is quite right for us to achieve both objectives, namely, to step up the gradual discharge of entrepreneurs, in order to give them the opportunity to secure jobs and perhaps create additional jobs – for example, employee bonus is such a topic – but on the other hand not to ignore the budgetary situation completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I think that is the right way, and there are very, very many measures that the Federal Minister has already described here. – That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I believe we are also on a good footing in the interests of our small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15133	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15154	Madam President. My esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, how you did, but I did not fully understand the actual correction of Mr Gudenus. Perhaps he has the opportunity to tell us in a second actual correction. But he's not here anyway, as I see. Perhaps he's just sorting his passwords and former passwords – most likely. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klinger, the 12-hour day is such a story. You're right if you say: The working time of 12 hours is great for employers. You are right, of course, but we are talking about the workers who have drawn the black Peter, my very valued ladies and gentlemen. As far as voluntaryness is concerned, we know how it actually works: Once, twice you can No, you can get the patent, then it's over. That's what reality looks like. [[Abg. Hauser: There are still...!]] That's why we're fighting it. This is a bad law, ladies and gentlemen, take note! Dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Go, stop!]] To the mid-term report: We know that the economy is flattering, getting worse – we assume that growth is expected to be only 1.7 percent in this year. Of course, this avalanche of upswing can be seen in many areas. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The production of property is less rapid, the receipts of orders are slowing down, and the economy is simply getting poor. Now there are three possibilities, three things the government can do. The most important thing is to counter it. Counter-taxation would be sensible and absolutely necessary. But she also has the opportunity to do nothing or do the wrong thing. I have concluded that this Federal Government has chosen the two last variants to do nothing and to do the wrong thing. However, this will have fatal consequences, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you why. The tax reform has already been addressed by the Federal Minister. All the economists tell us that private consumption is the support of the economy – this is beyond dispute. We know this of course, and that is why we are so anxious to see, as trade union representatives in wage negotiations, that the ladies and gentlemen actually get a decent wage, a decent salary or decent salary increases; but we can hop there and jump, we can do there what we want, the cold progression does away with everything. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Secretary of State is then forced to do so and if it comes back to three demands, it is said somewhere: The cold progression belongs abolished, and says: Well, 2023 we'll see then!, I have to say: Hello, it'll take four years! What does that mean? Until then, you've taken 8 billion euros by the cold progression again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] – Then the Federal Chancellor comes and says: Now I have thought differently, we will not abolish the cold progression, because that would not be fair! – You have to tell us what you really want, and we’ll see. The fact is that the cold progression needs to be changed. However, the solution must not be linear, but it must be shared socially fairly, so that the lower and smaller incomes can also benefit from it. That is what we mean and understand by regulation or abolition of cold progression. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Hauser.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me mention the second false signal, namely the reduction of corporate tax. This is, at all events, an essential step forward in the completely wrong direction. 1.6 billion euros are raised to the big corporations! You can still talk about it so beautifully and even so, ladies and gentlemen. As small and medium-sized enterprises were referred to by SMEs: The many thousand small businesses are looking through their fingers at this corporate tax reduction. That is why we say that this is clearly the wrong way. Of course, the big corporations are knocking on their shoulders and legs. We know that KTM would pay less taxes by 2 million euros compared to 2017, BMW by 12 million euros less, OMV by 19 million euros less, Red Bull by 31 million euros less! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, this has paid off for the campaign donors. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Pierer gives 500 000 euros and gets 2 million euros back in a year. Well, that's a great story. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this is the wrong way, and that will still be a huge revenge on the so-called representatives of the economy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15273	Mr Höbart. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15295	Madam President. I really have to say, just before the urgent: Listen to you, that really hurts, with all that you give of yourself, in this inconsistuous suffocation of social democracy, you get an ear disease. [[Abg. New builder: That hurts!]] That's unheard of. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because precisely from social democracy these sliders always come in the direction of the liberals, what the seventh dwarf from left, right, up or down says everything, one question: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Do you know Mr. City Councillor Peter Hacker? Is this political peripheral figure a term for you? - I suppose so. I can explain: This is a city council from Vienna. Do you know what this Mr. City Councillor Hacker has done for the best? – I can imagine that some aren’t interested in the same thing, they might look on the floor, whether the shoes have been cleaned or not. This Mr. City Councillor Hacker gave a few things for the best in a questionnaire in the magazine “Fleisch”, namely, terms that can be used today, and those that cannot be used. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I quote this questionnaire from this magazine, which according to his office was mistakenly told to the public: Today we should be allowed to say: ‘Mongo’, ‘A disabled person’, ‘Spast’, ‘Swüttel’. – Dear ladies and gentlemen, that is objectionable! This political figure would have to resign on the spot! This has not lost anything in our society! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Wimmer, our trade union officer, said that what the government is implementing here will have “fatal consequences”. I say quite clearly: There would have been fatal consequences for this Republic if the Socialists were still sitting in this Federal Government. Thank God no more! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now, in the near future, I would just like to mention a few facts about the economy, which is always being deflated by social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] We have 330 000 SMEs in Austria, they employ around two million people. We have about 55 000 apprentices who are trained in these establishments, i.e. the professionals of today and tomorrow. 70 per cent of the workforce and 65 per cent of the apprentices are in the private sector, in SMEs, and 65 per cent of the total value chain is generated by SMEs – only so that we know what we are talking about. They are diverse, flexible. They are usually also very creative and innovative; they are the pillar of our economy together with a functioning, thriving industry. Therefore, we should also say a clear thank you to these small and medium-sized enterprises, to the employees, to train employees and to do something together – and this must be the approach of a modern economic policy – with well-trained employees for our economy. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] I would like to mention here the tax reform that Mr Wimmer has really done here. I would like to tell you that the corporate tax is reduced in two steps, from 25 percent to 21 percent in the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The whole thing is to promote growth, to promote investment and to strengthen equity, even though the economists in the Chamber of Labour may not be able to tell you that because they are trapped somewhere in a left thought. The profit-free amount for profits up to EUR 30 000 will be increased to EUR 100 000, which means an annual savings of EUR 100 million for the economy. After more than three decades, the value of a low-valued economic asset is increased from EUR 400 in two steps to EUR 1 000. The depreciation: 300 million euros a year – also one thing that has long been implemented. Finally, the threshold of 30 000 euros will be increased to 35 000 euros. This means that up to 400 000 tax declarations are made less per year, which ultimately also reforms and relieves the administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that we must thank the small and medium-sized enterprises. We liberals in the joint government with the Austrian People's Party go a little further. And I say it again: It would be bad and fatal if the Socialists were still in the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15390	The next point is Mr Obernoster. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15412	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! This debate is concerned with the SME report. This, I believe, has already been clearly and thoroughly reported on by my previous speakers and you, Mrs Minister. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] In summary, we simply have to say – as it stands, including this EU comparison – that Austria and its family businesses and the medium-sized economy are among the top three European countries. We also know that this medium-sized economy and the family businesses were responsible for Austria's reputation today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, the medium-sized economy and family businesses are also responsible for the fact that we in Austria do not have such a strong departure from the valleys, because these many family businesses and the medium-sized economy also create jobs there. When we look at certain side valleys in Italy, in Germany, in highly praised Switzerland, or at other, more critical cases within the EU, we see that we are on the right path in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As someone who is a businessman himself and who has been sitting here in the House for 13 years, I now want to address the statements made by my predecessors. [[Abg. New builder: You need a pain supplement!]] Maybe I can start with the SPÖ: You have to do something for the little ones. – There is a VAT reduction for the many small tourist companies from 13 to 10 percent, and who is against it? - The SPÖ! There is a template for bureaucratic relief and fewer rules for the many small businesses, and who is against it? – The SPÖ, and sometimes part of the remaining opposition. [[Abg. Hear: And the NEOS!]] The SPÖ crewmen here at the Pult said nothing happened at all. I'll tell you one thing: For twelve years I have always had the highest need for explanation when I went home, why we decided again new rules on why there has been a tax reform in which we have to pay new taxes again. [[Abg. New builder: New taxes!]] I'll tell you, too. For a year now, since this government has been working together under Sebastian Kurz and Heinz-Christian Strache, we have for the first time been facilitating the employment side in the retail sector – and not in the wholesale sector; you can of course say here at the speaker's desk what you want. There are redundancies, and we have a proper government budget that has not actually been available until now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, you were the first speaker to talk about economics at this point in the day. I don't know, maybe you've been a good professor – I think so – but one thing I'm telling you: You better stop talking to the economy, but stay where you are at home! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr. Schellhorn, you're an entrepreneurship colleague. You know what you've become? - You're not a matter politician, you're a pure opposition politician. I know you long enough. What you said here at the speaker's desk, I wouldn't have trusted you, I must honestly say. [[Phone call at the NEOS.]] You know that we have a shortage of skilled workers – we also have two tourist establishments – we have, we have many colleagues. I know the subject both inside and outside. Do you know who were the first to respond? This government! You know that we cannot solve the problem of this shortage of skilled workers from today to tomorrow, after it has become more and more acute in the last ten years. The time is too short to mention the reasons, but you know them. I'm humanly disappointed. I am truly deeply disappointed by you because you came out of here and said that this government – which at last relieves not burdened, which finally disburses, instead of introducing new conditions – does nothing. I am disappointed that you, as a still practicing colleague – or are you no longer at home?, that is also possible – come out here and say that this government is doing nothing. I'll tell you one thing: I am proud to be part of a party that represents this government; and I am proud of what this government is doing with all our support for discharges, namely for the working people and for entrepreneurs, large or small – only for the corporations; they are, we have heard today, rather asked to cash out. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] Now the people who are really responsible for paying taxes in this state are being helped, and we can afford the social benefits, for those people they need, and not for those people who only benefit from the system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15545	Mrs Margreiter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15567	Mr Obernosterer! Before I come to the shortage of skilled workers, once again on your statements on VAT reduction for tourism companies: We have tabled an amendment and therefore we do not agree because you are running client policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You know that VAT has been increased for beekeepers, marketers, for many professional groups and groups of companies at the time, and we wanted to change it again for everyone, not just for tourism companies. [[Abg. Neubauer: 43 farms have been relieved!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was the reason we voted against. Tell the whole truth and not always half! - That's it. [[Abg. New builder: Do you believe what you are saying?- Oh, my God!]] But now on the subject of the shortage of skilled workers: Imagine sitting in a cinema with a three-year-old, watching “Feuerwehrmann Sam – Suddenly Filmhero!” and in advance there is a prelude, i.e. advertising of regional companies or of companies for teaching positions. At the first moment, I thought that was a target group mistake. My second thought was: The shortage of skilled workers must be really dangerous! – Yes, he is very critical and, as I think, one of the biggest challenges that Austria’s economy has to face, and I am really angry because this Federal Government – and the ÖVP has been setting the Minister of Economic Affairs consistently since 1987 – does nothing but cosmetics but nothing at all! There are no real measures! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] The situation for small businesses is also becoming more and more threatening, because the large companies are actually sucking off the few skilled workers that exist and the apprentices. For example, since 2012, training for asylum seekers in disability professions has been allowed. There are now exactly 1,023 asyl advertising apprentices across Austria – as of August 2018. Of these, 359 are in my home country alone – and more than half are in the gastronomy. There you could show, colleague Obernosterer, what you really want to do for the tourism industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] In addition, this is also expected for the Republic, because the asylum seekers, when they complete a teaching, fall out of basic care and are also enrolled in the system. Many do not know that either. That is why I would like to say it. Behind all these apprentices are companies, and they are looking for an apprentice not only for a year, but really hanging for many, many years. It is really no longer to be seen that you are proposing a barge when it comes to the fact that these asylum seekers, who are currently completing a teaching, are allowed to stay. I think there, for example, and you may have read it to Mr Absmann of the inn brewery The White in Salzburg, a real institution. I talked to him. He told me he's got a permanent assignment to the AMS. He has now found apprentices, mainly from Afghanistan, i.e. asylum seekers in teaching. [[Call to the ÖVP: He could take asylum seekers!]] He said that he could therefore not employ asylene or Austrian apprentices, because he simply did not find anyone; the asylum seekers, on the other hand, have found themselves well and integrated well. The next thing is that the host must increasingly switch to finished products in the kitchen, and the result is just the classic host house dying. Stay the rest of the hood restaurants for the top layer and fast food chains for the foot people, and that really can't be it! Another example from my home community: a vocational school in Attnang-Puchheim, where the Directorate, the Teachership and many fellow students make themselves strong for this and collect signatures that four asylum seekers can remain in teaching – and this list can still be carried on for a very long time. What happens to those people who have received negative information on the basis of expert opinion Mahringer because they have compared half-hearted travel reports to scientific studies? Who's taking responsibility? You knew it and you didn't do anything about it. I ask you, Mrs Minister: Do you take responsibility for the negative decisions, or the Minister of the Interior, or perhaps Mr Gudenus, who is not here? He should deal better with it than with such passwords as “healing ” whether that was fading or not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, you have the economy, according to a report of 27. In August 2018, in the SN, the possibility to complete the lessons already started by asylum seekers was envisaged. Even your lawyer at Haimbuchner from the FPÖ ranks has meant in a reference that the rule of law gives it; it is a lawyer. Our appeal to this Federal Government and, above all, to you, Mrs. Minister: Don't miss out on your xenophobic policy on our company! Or in the words of Mr Absmann of the inn brewery & Mode: If the human, Christian-social component does not move, it is at least the economic one that is really not difficult to make. I'll tell you one thing, too. I have asked parliamentary questions to members of the government, and I will look at them very carefully and analyze how they answer them so that they do not pass the same way as they did in the request to the Lipizzans and possibly answer them incorrectly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15663	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15684	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say to the previous speaker: We have 25 000 asylum seekers under 25 who, of course, could very easily work in these professions. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to focus briefly on the importance of entrepreneurship, which generates two thirds of the total value added by Austria. The small and medium-sized enterprises are the main pillars of the local economy and society. In order for this to remain the same in the future, these companies need a large pool of well-trained and qualified employees. Professionals are needed daily, because the most beautiful order is no use for the operation if it cannot be accepted and executed. It is therefore very important to address the shortage of skilled workers. Fortunately, the Federal Government has addressed this problem offensively. Teaching professions should be made more attractive for young people. There are three different measures to this end: Firstly, all 200 teaching occupations will be completed until the end of the Year evaluates and adapts to the digital challenges. Secondly, the teaching is to be made more attractive by modern, precise job descriptions. The third measure is dual training. In principle, each apprenticeship is a dual: on the one hand, training on the ground, which allows you to know the structure of a company, the conditions of production, the working processes and the services, on the other hand, the teaching in the vocational school, which provides a theoretical basis and supplement. Remarkable is the concept of the dual academy. It is aimed at maturants and offers them a professional training. Maturants who make a teaching after a successful matura have a period of three to two years reduced. Offers will be a practical training in the latest state of the art with many possibilities and further training courses. It is also possible to have an optional foreign internship during training. Businesses allow for a wide range of career and ascent opportunities with teaching, as they benefit from the solid basic training and the goalfulness of young people. That is why it is so especially gratifying that the number of young people starting a teaching is rising in Austria. The teaching combines theory and practice in a unique way. It is and remains a training with high professional recognition and tradition. The measures initiated by the Federal Government and, in particular, by you, Mrs Minister, are beginning to take. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15735	Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15757	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! I'm very glad you're here today. The last time we debated economic policy here in the House, you went after Question Time. That is why I am pleased that you are taking the time to discuss with us today. Yes, it is true, we can be proud of the small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, only that the policy you are doing goes beyond SMEs in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In principle, the SME report gives an opportunity, and this is actually the meaning of a report to draw conclusions from it and to put in place appropriate measures, only that there are no conclusions and no measures by you and very few answers, Mrs Minister – in the Committee just as here in plenary today. You're guilty of a lot of answers. I understand a few issues that we have already tried to discuss in committee: On the one hand, it is about the acquisitions. In the area of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, there are many acquisitions. What measures do you take to facilitate these takeovers? It is about measures so that in some sectors not very few large things can be determined again. Another topic is depreciation. We have also tried to address this in the Committee. I know, Mr Schellhorn is always addressing the area of hospitality and gastronomy. But it goes much, much deeper and further into the commercial sector. There are technology advances, and the devices are no longer to be written down in as long periods as they once were. As a result, finance has not followed the developments of technology. I have devices in my company, which I used to write down in 12 or 15 years, which I now have to exchange after four or five years. The financial sector simply did not understand this development accordingly. Then the much praised project tax reform, yes, the Köst reduction: It will account for 1.5 billion euros. It goes past the small and medium-sized enterprises. Yeah, who's gonna help that cook-down? – 5 per cent of entrepreneurs make 80 per cent of Köst. Mrs. Minister, you know that. So, who's helping this cook-down you're doing? – EUR 1.5 billion for large companies and large entrepreneurs in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: such a fool!]] I'm glad you're addressing the small business scheme: It is just a SPÖ proposal, which lies here in the house, that we raise the border with the small business system, ladies and gentlemen. Then I will come to your competence as a Minister of Digitalization. I'll tell you one thing: No medium-sized company would have dared to bring such a flawed app to the market. No medium-sized company would have dared to place such an immature product on the market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are errors when it comes to reporting residences – Mr Loacker can sing a song of them – a faulty feature also with the electoral card requirements – a much, much more sensitive area, because it is about the processing of a nationwide choice. Swimming as a Minister for Digitalisation She'll be there a little bit. There is also the problem that Members have already mentioned, namely that passwords have been hacked. Compared to the problem with the electoral cards, this is just a small one, just: If a clubman of a government party, Mr. Klubobmann Gudenus, uses as a “healing” password, that is significant – and it is also significant that the government is silent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In summary, one can say: Yes, we can be proud of the many small and medium-sized enterprises in our country that make an important contribution to the economy, only: They have not yet contributed to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15817	Mr Obernoster spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15852	Mr President. My actual correction to the comments made by Mr Einwallner from the SPÖ: He claimed here that the SPÖ advocated that tax relief should be granted in the event of the acquisition of holdings. The fact is that the SPÖ – and I believe that is everyone, not only here in the hall, but also outside, known – has always intervened for an inheritance tax, creating a threat to the existence of many small and family businesses.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15882	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs to take note of this report III-232 of the supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a sign of approval to be taken into account. – That seems to be unanimous. This accepted the request and took note of the report. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann, colleagues, on the reduction of working time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of giving the motion for a resolution a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[15:21:25]] 4. Point Report of the Teaching Committee on the National Education Report Austria 2018, presented by the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research (III-268/611 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15943	We come to Agenda item 4. There was no oral reporting. Mr Marchetti is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e15970	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! First of all, I would like to thank the detailed report, especially the scientists who prepared it. But I would also like to take this opportunity to take advantage of it, precisely because I have only just heard this house and have no tunnel view yet to express a certain manoeuvre criticism here. I believe that this National Education Report does not really cover some of the priorities that are definitely such. You could already think of an update. For example: Violence in schools was still large in 2009 in the educational report. In this year's educational report, this is no longer an issue. The issue, even if it is now up-to-date, is not a whole new one and should already be the subject of such a report. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Content: It also addresses the topic of digitalisation in the educational report. In this context, I would like to say that I understand education policy in such a way that we do not allow the children in school to deal with the past and not to prepare for the present, but we need to look at what is necessary over the next 10, 15 years, what they will have to do, and then explain our education policy. In the report, there has been a great need to catch up in the field of digitalization, on the one hand with the infrastructure – one needs powerful networks to be able to use certain tools at all – but also in the relevant education in general. I would like to stress that this is not only about digital education in school, but also about adult education. If we do not take all the other population groups, especially seniors, this will lead to social exclusion. I would like to draw this point out quite explicitly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Master Plan for Digitalization is coming now, and there may also be some answer in it. I would nevertheless like to highlight the subject of media competence. Especially in times of digitization, it is important that we make people fit to deal with this wealth of information. This is another gap in the school that I see and which we absolutely need to fill – and not just that, I go one step further: Political education must also be on the agenda quite clearly. This is also the case in the government programme. I am in favour of the fact that we are super-grouping and working on this issue. It is very, very important that we give high priority to political education in school. This is one of the challenges for the next 10, 15 years that we definitely need to address as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This report of education helps us to ask the right questions. However, as politicians, we are especially chosen to give the right answers. On one point in this report, this has already happened, and I would also like to expressly thank you, in the field of the whole day -
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16021	We have the call of the urgents at 3:25 p.m. Is it gonna be any longer? [[Abg. Marchetti: 1 minute left!]] Then I would ask you to resume your remarks afterwards. [[In the case of ÖVP and FPÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Marchetti.]] I am interrupting the negotiations on item 4 and we are going to deal with the urgent question. Under the Rules of Procedure, it shall be called at 15.25 a.m. [[15:25:35]] Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection on the fight against poverty and measures for greater social justice (3536/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16065	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 3536/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16328	I may ask Mrs Belakovich as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes, give the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16350	Mr President. Ladies Federal Ministers, Federal Minister! Dear guests on the gallery and at home on the televisions! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, there have been socialist German Chancellors in Austria for twelve years, socialist Social Minister. You might think that in our Republic everything has to be the best, there can be no poverty, people are fine, it flows milk and honey. But we know: The exact opposite is the case! When the new Federal Government took office just over a year ago, we saw what was happening. In the twelve years before, there was a massive increase in child poverty among socialist social ministers – a massive increase! – the highest unemployment in this Republic, a massive increase in precarious employment conditions, by the way, especially in your favorite company, which you are so happy to protect, namely at the ORF. Wage and social dumping was on the agenda. Although you have tried to get doctors, you have actually let it run and have not found any effective measures. All this was so among socialist social ministers here in Austria. Now we've started a trend change. This new federal government, which is in office for a little more than a year, has been committed from the very beginning to make Austria social, to restore social justice, to give funding to the people. That's how it started. Let's see what happened there, let's go through it once: The last example presented was the tax reform – a tax reform that will really lead to a massive reduction in small and medium-sized incomes, in order to reduce additional labour costs. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have had a major problem in our country over the last ten years, and that has been what people have felt. The middle class has become smaller and smaller. The people who have listened to the so-called middle class have been afraid to lose perhaps the social rank, to lose everything, and you as SPÖ have done nothing against it. Now we have a federal government that works in the sense of people. We have a tax reform of over EUR 5 billion, which will benefit mainly those people in this country who are struggling. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know what is particularly wise about this tax reform? – It is not financed by new taxes, just as we were used to in the past: that you put the people into the one taschl something and pulled it out of the other. That will not exist, but that is a real tax reform. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] A part that brings tax justice has been since 1. January in force, the family bonus plus. This is fiscal justice especially for the middle class, especially for those families that have children. These are savings and reliefs per child of up to 1,500 euros per year, something that people feel, what they notice, already notice today, because it really works and because this has finally led to justice in our Austrian tax system. At the same time as this tax relief, with this tax justice, with this family bonus Plus, the Federal Government also has a family support for low-earning families, for Single-earners and single-parents are introduced to support children with up to 250 euros a year. [[Abg. Rossmann: That's not how it is!]] This is also something that has been in addition to all existing family benefits since 1. January this year will be paid out. These are great reliefs for the families in this country. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We recently adopted the new Social Assistance Act here, so to speak, the minimum insurance new, which is at last aimed at benefiting those people whom they really need. This means that there are supplements, for example, for the single earners, supplements for people with disabilities. All these people will now benefit from this achievement. However, we have also increased the ability to clean up to EUR 5 300, and – which is very important in this case – we have a three-year stay in the landbook when someone lives in an apartment or in a house. This means that now many more people can trust themselves in an emergency situation to take advantage of the minimum guarantee, because it is not immediately taken into account in the basic book. This is an advantage for the people in this country. The result will be that more people can really get the supplements and the grants to them and don't have to fear and fear that the community will then be in the ground floor and the apartment may be gone. These are measures that benefit people in this country and help them. We have tried at pensions to ensure that the increase in pensions already taken this year was above average, especially for small pensions. An increase of 2.6% at an inflation rate of 2 percent is a pension increase which has not been possible in our Republic in recent years. It didn't exist. This means, above all, that those people who have little anyway, for whom it is always difficult to fight, have got a lot on average. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There will also be more; these are the first steps now. By the way – because I'm still thinking of it – you don't even know what we've done: We have reduced the additional wage costs on small salaries, which was at the very beginning of this legislative period. That was the very first step, the very first important measure. This was the reduction or even the removal of unemployment insurance contributions for small incomes up to EUR 1 900 gross. These have been measures that have helped precisely those people in this country who deserve little that is especially urgently needed to help them. These have been truly effective social measures – and people feel it too. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It not only feels the people in this country, but also shows the rankings. You can see it now. Austria has become better in all rankings. Austria is the country with the lowest age poverty within the EU. We can be proud of that. We're not going to worry about it and not rest on it. This Federal Government will also take further measures to increase the minimum pension, especially for people with long insurance periods. All this has happened so far, and all this feels people outside. That is why they are so satisfied with this Federal Government, and that is why the mood in this country is so good and so positive. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unemployment has fallen since the start of this Federal Government, and we are constantly working to reduce it, ladies and gentlemen. And that's exactly what you can't handle. Instead of also recognizing the achievements – and I was long enough in the opposition, so I know that you can of course criticize something and demand more than comes – make fundamental opposition. They go out with things that are simple and simply wrong. The SPÖ stands out permanently and explains: It has all become so much worse, everyone is getting poorer, and it is now being reformed at the expense of the poor! Mr Leichtfried, who stands over there, wrote today or told the APA: Well, the FPÖ only wants to make a urgent request today so that it can hide that now in the health and social field can be saved. [[Abg. Lightness: Here I am!]] [[Abg. Vogl: That was not a German sentence now!]] . I do not know, Mr Leichtfried, how you come to have such ideas at all. I wonder slowly: Do you think that's serious, or do you just think of anything else? – Quite honestly: There is no deterioration in the social sector – there is no such thing! – and it feels the people who depend on it outside. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is no deterioration in health care – quite the contrary! - Screams [[Abg. Lightenness: There we are different views!]] You won't be in between, you'll be there anyway! You regret that FPÖ is making itself here today, making a urgent request, and that you are so poor and can't bring in yours. Is that your concept of democracy? If so, you must make a request to amend the Rules of Procedure so that only the SPÖs can make urgent questions if you absolutely want to do so. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Well, hey!]] So with all appreciation: Government parties also have the right to make urgent requests. Now I'm gonna tell you something: If someone had been able to get upset, it would have been the ÖVP, because it would have been on the line. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] But I didn't hear anything, they took note of it. That's so simple. [[Abg. Loacker: She hasn't written any urgents for 30 years...!]] These are the problems you have. That means you're trying to get on side shows, believe that people can scatter sand into the eyes, and then you're wondering that you're not going through with your propaganda here anymore. For example, as social policy à la SPÖ looks out in Vienna, we see that. There is then a Social City Council that has nothing else to say but: I don't put that into practice, it's meaty! – You know, this is this fundamental opposition, which really does not bring anything to anyone – the least of the Viennans. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] It would be the SPÖ's task to say to their own people, too: This is a law adopted by a majority, and all the federal states in Austria must implement it! – And Mr Hacker will also have to implement it, nothing else will remain for him. But Mr Hacker is more concerned with finding any smears on lists for good or for bad. I just want to take one out, because that really made me crazy. According to Hacker, the chimp word “Schwabo” can be said. This is a blatant word that clearly refers to an ethny, and that is all right for Mr Hacker. [[Abg. Hoebart: This is inconceivable!]] Then three press speakers have to express themselves almost at the same time and explain: Well, he's started to delete, and he's not finished! – So Mr Hacker left two words here in the middle. [[keeping an expression in height with the photo of the said list]] He did not start up, not down, but obviously in the middle. That is quite, quite wrong, what Mr Hacker used as an excuse. It also shows the thought of Mr. Hacker, what you realize when you look at how he works as he thinks. Perhaps he has been inspired by the school discussions in the HTL Ottakring, because – I sometimes have the impression – there is exactly as Mr Hacker permits. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These are sceptical words, which are unfortunately heard on the streets of Vienna, in the Vienna subways very often. Above all, they are heard very often by those clients you have so gladly welcomed here in this country that you have brought here. These are the people who, of course, are also poor in statistics – I am right for you. We should never forget that we have 35 000 unemployed asylum seekers who, according to AMS, are virtually unmediable because they do not have any training, some of them are not even alphabetted. These are the people you're working for. That is what we have heard in the previous debate. These are the people you're working for. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that is exactly the wrong way you are going about this, and that is why we have also made these reforms. It can only work a good social system, which is just and aimed at those people who are ready for performance but are simply in an emergency or just little to earn. Such a social system can only be financed in the long term if we do not have a wrong situation in it by people who want to take advantage of it, by people we bring into the country and who have never paid anything, probably will never pay anything. That's exactly the problem. That is why I am so grateful to the Federal Government that it is really, quite consistently, also being deported. We will also have to do this in the future, namely to postpone those who do not have residence permits in Austria, so that these people do not come to social benefits either, because this immigration into the social system or into the labour market that you have lived in recent years was the problem we had in Austria – this poverty was that. Let us look back at what has been SPÖ's labour market policy in recent years for 500 000 unemployed: Shortly before the last National Council election, the Gag of the then Federal Chancellor Kern came when he said: We are now doing the 20 000 action, and we will now provide a few socialist mayors in Austria with one that the Federation will pay for. So there is a new parish worker, and the mayors are happy because they can sell it in the council. – That was really your access. The then Minister of Social Affairs Stöger made himself and said: Well, we have to be a little innovative! If we stop Kebab on the alm, we can bring the kebab sellers to the alm, because there they are looking for cooks and the kebab sellers are looking for a job. – These were the ideas of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] They have not – and you know that very well – been raised because it does not work that way, because it has needed very different measures. They have now been set, and pretty slowly they also timing effect. This is also one of the reasons why unemployment is slowing down, month after month. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is still high, but it has fallen by more than 30 percent over your term of office, Mr Stöger. That is exactly what is interesting in this country. So it is possible to reduce the unemployment month after month with consistent labour market policies. This is the secret of success and the recipe for success of this federal government. I would like to express my warm thanks to the two ministers, but of course also to the entire Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This can also be seen in the example of poverty in old age. I mentioned it earlier: Austria is in the EU the country with the lowest age poverty, i.e. we have a very, very good system; we have the compensation allowance. In Austria, therefore, poverty is under control. We have always called for someone who has 40 years of insurance to receive a minimum pension of 1,200 euros. Mr Stöger, remember what you answered at the time: It's not easy, it's going to go to the millions! – It will come, it will come in the near future, Mr Stöger! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: years of work! 40 years of work!]] You obviously settled down or you just didn't want it and you just didn't want it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's exactly the problem: They didn't work for the people. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: years of work...!]] – I don’t know, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I don’t understand what you’re roaring in anyway, you can save yourself! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: years of work!]] The spectators at home don't get what you're yelling at. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank God! That's embarrassing anyway!]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Leave it alone! It's just laborious, you know, you always roar something, but obviously you need that. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is probably a kind of therapy session you're experiencing right now. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One more time, dear SPÖ: You passed the population, you didn't care what people in the country needed. In the focus you have always only had: Your officials, your officials, your officials. By the way, you still have that now. That's why you're always so silly when a reform comes somewhere. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What does that mean?]] They will be quite nervous, for example, in terms of social security reform, because suddenly there could be fewer officials. For God's sake, how should you serve your people now?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This is exactly your problem that you have made a completely wrong theme focus. They haven't been the party of the little man, the party of the workers for a long time! They have developed from the workers' party to the party of asylum seekers and the asylum fraud! These are the people you now represent. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The only thing you are working for and trying to do is that people who have no right to stay in the country, that you may be able to hide asylum rights through any teaching. That's what you're trying to do. You will fail because people do not want it at all and because it is not the priorities that we need in our country. They always lament and complain that this is all too little. – Well, you may be right, you can give more and more. Everyone would like to say we draw from the full, we now double the pensions. [[Abg. Krist: What is it about the urgent one now?]] The only problem is that we then have exactly the debt policy you have made. This brings me back to what you decided in the last period just before the election. I am referring to action 20 000 or to the employee bonus. These may have been nice measures that have been good for marketing technology – or not, for otherwise you would not sit on the opposition bank – but you have not financed them. You just decided, and you're supposed to pay for it to anyone: Well, that doesn't matter, let's go over the budget! – And that’s exactly what the mistake has been. It needs a balanced budget, because you'll have a backpack in the next generation. This too is now finally finished – and that is what people in the country appreciate. To end this debt policy, we need a solid financial base in our country! That's necessary. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is necessary for a well-functioning social system, but it is also necessary for a well-functioning economy and labour market policy in that country, because if you build everything on debt, then eventually the collapse will come, everything will collapse. That's exactly the wrong way you've chosen. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's a complete holler, what you're saying!]] - Well, if you don't know, I understand. I think you didn't understand what I was trying to explain. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] After what you've offered here in recent years and most of the time in your speeches, that's not really surprising either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At any rate, this federal government has managed to launch a trend change and make a proper budgetary policy to ensure the basis for a good and secure social policy in our country to relieve families, to reduce and avoid child poverty in Austria, to reduce poverty in old age, to make innovations in the labour market possible to reduce unemployment – I have already said that it has been substantially reduced since the start of this federal government – in order to increase pensions properly and, in addition to all the measures that have already happened, to continue to reduce additional wage costs in the long term. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] That's not the end of the flag rod, but by the shredded pile you left behind, it's just step by step. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what the Federal Government is saying: a fair social system in which no citizen in our country is forgotten or not taken away, but no social fraud, no immigration into the social system, no dispensing with the casting can, but a system in which performance is worthwhile, in which people like to go back to work because they can get just wages, and in which they feel comfortable again. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Objection to the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16750	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16765	This change of government is the right way – and people in the country feel it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16793	Mrs Hartinger-Klein has been reported to speak. Their speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e16814	Mr President. [[Abg. Jarolim: I hope you correct this nonsense!]] High house! This federal government is committed to helping where help is really needed – for people who have worked for years and suddenly stand out, for people who have played a disease badly and who are now struggling hard for their future, for those who have fallen economically. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Call at the SPÖ:... in “Welcome to Austria”!]] We end the social cold of the SPÖ with our measures because we put the right impulses. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and with representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Worm: That's high time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] We put the right impetus on employment incentives, lower income tax reductions and family bonus plus, and we are not making new debts to save poverty for the next generation. A forward-looking social policy must begin with the fight against poverty and discrimination in childhood to ensure that the problems do not accumulate over the entire life course and eventually end up in poverty in old age. [[Abg. Jarolim: You don't care about children!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have nothing to do with it!]] [[Abg. Vogl: Exactly!]] We need support as early as possible, for example, with our Early Assistance Programme, the School Start Package and the Training up to 18. We are putting the problem at its roots, because poor or completely lacking vocational education is a major cause of poverty. [[Call the SPÖ: They're pushing off!]] One thing is certain: The most effective prevention of poverty is to give people the opportunity to earn their own money. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Employment in Austria is on record and its number continues to grow, with unemployment falling from month to month since the start of government. The recently published GfK Austria Purchase Power Study also presents a positive witness to Austria. In a direct comparison with Germany, it has a higher net income per capita for Austria in 2019. This means that Austrians have more money than their German neighbours. However, work must be rewarded again, and precisely that is why we have increased the right to re-entry in the basic social assistance law. [[Abg. Jarolim: Who makes the work?]] I continue to support the fact that the income of employees' households will again be clearly different from income that households can obtain in relation to social assistance. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At present, almost 200 000 pensioners are living in Austria under the threat of poverty. It must not be that people who have often paid into our social system for decades must then live in retirement below the poverty line. We will therefore ensure social security in old age through a minimum pension. [[Abg. Jarolim: You just ruined them!]] Those who have worked and contributed for a lifetime must have social security through the state pension system. This federal government cannot be accused of social cold – quite the contrary, that is anything but social cold. It has already implemented or launched numerous measures to combat poverty. For example, workers with low incomes have benefited since mid-2018 from the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, second, the family bonus Plus has been introduced, thirdly, a reduction in health insurance contributions for people with low incomes – what you, ladies and gentlemen, have never addressed from social democracy! [[Abg. Scherak: The Minister of Finance...!]] [[Abg. Jarolim:... the people you mock!]] Many of the measures that have not been taken before are now being implemented in order to really avoid and prevent poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really a personal concern for me to work for the reduction of poverty and for the people of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] I would now like to answer the questions you have asked me. Questions 1 and 2: At present, the poverty and exclusion risk rate is 17.5%. In the previous year, the value was still 18.1 percent. Poverty is also falling in the long-term comparison. The rate of risk of poverty and exclusion in 2008 was still 20.6 percent and thus significantly higher than the current value. This corresponds to 187 000 people at risk of poverty and exclusion less than 2008. As part of the impact orientation, this Federal Government has set itself the goal of bringing an average of 23 500 people each year from the risk of poverty by 2022. That is about 100,000 people by 2022. Questions 3 and 4: In the EU comparison, Austria is the best third and significantly below the EU28 average for the risk of poverty and exclusion. The risk of poverty in Austria is 17.5% in 2018, and the latest EU average is 22.4%. This position in the international comparison is due to the fact that we have a very well developed welfare state, which enjoys the world's greatest recognition and appreciation. [[Abg. Jarolim: Have – in the past you have to say that!]] Many of our programmes and actions are often used as international good practice examples and serve as a model for sustainable social policy reforms in other countries. Questions 5 to 8: A strong middle class not only ensures more productivity, but also is responsible for ensuring sustainable social protection systems and avoiding poverty. A recent OECD report confirms that Austria has a very strong middle class. Its share of the total population is 67 percent higher than the OECD average, where it is only 61 percent. It is a very important contribution to the fight against poverty. According to the most recent internationally recognised figures, social inequality in Austria is in the international Comparing very low, because one of the most important indicators of income inequality, the so-called Gini coefficient, is Austria with a value of 0.28 below the top nations in the OECD area and thus below the OECD average. So this proves that social inequality in our country is lower and that there can be no social cold. In international comparison, it is clear how important the social state is to us. According to EU statistics, Austria provides almost 30 percent of the gross domestic product for social expenditure, making it the top third of the EU Member States. Austria is also in the leading field in the international, global field. According to a recent OECD study, Austria ranks among the top 6 OECD Member States in social expenditure. As a result of continuing economic growth, unemployment continues to decline in Austria, with approximately 296,000 people being listed. In addition, nearly 65 000 people participate in training courses. At the end of April 2019, total unemployment in Austria continued to decline by minus 4.1 percent. Our good labour market situation is also clearly visible in international comparison, as Austria is significantly below the average of the euro area, which currently stands at 7.7 percent at an unemployment rate of only 4.8 percent – according to Eurostat. Questions 9 to 11: Among the groups particularly affected by poverty and social exclusion in Austria are, for example, child-rich families, low-employment households, single women, single-parent households or those with low qualifications. Single parents are particularly affected by poverty because they often cannot or can only participate in the labour market. That is why the Federal Government in Social Assistance has planned a new supplement for single-parents. In total, the Federal Government and the Länder will provide around 180 million euros per year for the entire area of childcare. The expansion of all-day forms of education and care is also being promoted. In Austria, women are a little more affected by poverty than men. The difference is particularly marked at age. On average, women receive a significantly lower pension than men, because many of them can acquire only lower pension entitlements due to longer breaks or part-time work due to child care obligations. I address the numerous specific support measures for women of the AMS in question 14. Ensuring the sustainable participation of people with disabilities in working life is the most effective way to avoid poverty. For this purpose, people with disabilities from the Social Ministry service are offered broad support instruments such as youth coaching and work assistance as well as direct wage promotions. Integrative businesses also make a significant contribution. Under the previous government, pensions have been adjusted several times under the inflation rate. This was more or less a loss of purchasing power for all pensioners. The Federal Government has significantly increased low and medium-sized pensions in 2019 above the inflation rate and has set corresponding compensatory allowance rates. This results in a significant increase in purchasing power for most of the pensioners. The Federal Government will further develop the system of compensation allowances. At risk of poverty, young people are a particularly important target group for our labour market policy. We therefore want to support young people in school and vocational training, and in the pursuit of educational qualifications and supplementary qualifications. Our training requirement up to 18 ensures that all young people in Austria receive training beyond compulsory schooling. As part of this programme, in addition to training courses for vocational training, for example in the so-called over-company training or in production schools, social-worker accompanying measures such as youth coaching are offered. Another important element of our support for young people is the training guarantee up to 25. Child-rich families are also at risk of poverty on average. [[Abg. Lightenness: That's why the minimum security for children's families has been shortened! Very nice! Thank you!]] In addition to the support provided by the Social Assistance Office New, my department will provide assistance from the beginning. The Early Assistance programme is an offer for pregnant women and families in stressful situations in order to allow children an equivalent opportunity for a good life. Many households also face high financial burdens from school start-up. The School Start Package campaign supports children in low-income and low-power households when they start school with free school articles. Since 1 January 2019, the family bonus Plus has also reduced the wage tax. With the family bonus Plus, a milestone has been set up from which 950 000 families with 1.6 million children benefit. Questions 12 and 13: The poverty risk rate of foreigners is significantly higher than that of nationals. While only every ninth country is at risk of poverty, poverty risk affects almost every third country. The Austrian Federal Government has set itself the goal of its government programme to stop immigration into the social state. Social assistance New must therefore be fair and fair. People who have been working for years and who have made the possible contribution to Austria are to be improved financially than new people. The new Basic Social Assistance Act now implements this project. New people will only receive full social assistance if they can show appropriate German skills. Questions 14 and 15: My department, together with the labour market service, has developed numerous tailor-made measures for people with lack of, low or obsolete qualifications, since this phenomenon may affect very different target groups: Young people, women or older people. This is, of course, particularly true of long-term unemployed people. The training law has been introduced for systematic and sustainable control. More than 453 million euros were spent by the labour market service in 2018 to support young people and young adults under 25 years of age. The most important task here is the placement of young people to occupational apprenticeships. In addition, there is the provision of training in so-called over-company facilities, for example, the intensive training of skilled workers and skilled workers. [[Abg. Jarolim: There's nothing to do with what you've caused! These are the old ones...! You can't dress up with that!]] [[Abg. New builder: Yes, that hurts!]] The so-called job-related qualification, in turn, promotes operational training and leads to a state-recognised or externally certified completion. All of our programmes and actions in active labour market policies offer specific support for women. For new entrants, we offer career guidance and additional qualification measures to facilitate quick work. [[Abg. Lightenness: Now, what has happened over the past five years? Not very ambitious!]] With programmes such as the model women in crafts and technology, we also help women to take up training in low-female occupations and help women and girls to take a foothold in occupations and economic sectors with good income and working conditions. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Older workers have a lot of professional and life experience. As a result of their involvement, not only the employees themselves but also society as a whole benefit. Older workers over 50 years of age are disproportionately affected by long-term unemployment. [[Abg. Easy: That is why action has been abolished 20 000! Congratulations! There's more out of work now!]] Therefore, under the Employment Initiative, there are 50 plus measures such as integration aid, transit jobs in so-called socio-economic enterprises and a combination wage model. This is just a small section of labour market policy. On the question 16: Let me address three important aspects of the new model of social assistance here! First: As mentioned above, with social assistance, we want to contribute to the financial improvement of people who have worked or have worked for years. The law of fairness applies. Secondly, In addition, the new social assistance provides for a more active activation of working people. Full and full support from social assistance should therefore be paid only to those who are also willing to integrate themselves into Austrian society and into the labour market. Thirdly, Last but not least, I would like to mention that we have specifically restricted access to wealth in social assistance. [[Abg. Jarolim: This is the success balance of the old government, what you read there! That's incredible!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] On the question 17: High housing costs can be taken into account by the countries in accordance with the Basic Social Assistance Act on a so-called housing fee. By applying these flat rates, the total performance can be increased to 130 percent of the basis of assessment. [[Abg. Lightenness: These are 99 percent things of the old government! I'm correcting 99.5 percent!]] The condition is that the total cost of housing is reimbursed as a benefit in kind. In addition, necessary additional benefits for housing needs can also be covered with the use of the hardness clause. Questions 18 and 19: First of all, I would like to make it clear that, by reporting to the AMS on job search, social assistance providers are open to all training opportunities and promotions of the labour market service, which primarily aim at the integration of jobseekers. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jarolim and Mr Vogl.]] We believe that work is the best protection against poverty. For this reason, with the basic social assistance law, we are focusing on measures that are more supportive of the start-up of work. As examples I can quote here: first, the return-free amount, second, the removal of mediation barriers. It is therefore clear objective to ultimately make social assistance providers independent of the benefits of social assistance, aid for self-help. [[Abg. Lightenness: Not even the wife Belakovich, the questioner, listen to you!]] Question 20: discharge Austria stands for a new and sustainable redistribution from the state to the businesses and companies. This means more to everyone in the near future, because this new discharge programme will benefit everyone, even those who do not pay taxes. Low earners and taxpayers benefit not least by reducing SV contributions as well as by reducing tariffs. On question 21: It is a particular concern for us to relieve, in particular, low-earners and middle-income people. As the social security contributions represent a higher proportion of the taxes on work than the wage tax, further reduction of social security contributions is the most targeted. On the question 22: In order to make work incentives targeted in the lower incomes sector, a deduction amount should in future reduce health insurance contributions for workers who exceed the low-quality limit. The deduction amount increases to EUR 1 350 gross monthly reference to EUR 350 and then decreases to EUR 2 201 per month to EUR 0. Pensioners are also relieved by a deduction of around 300 million euros in health insurance contributions. This is the social warmth of this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17235	Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17257	Mr President. Estimated ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Fathers. Yes, it is a bitter time for the opposition, especially for social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] [[Abg. Jarolim: It still needed it! A worthy conclusion!]] We – this government – are the social warmth. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And people feel it: We broadcast empathy, we make social policy. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Abg. Loacker: Keep going! I like the number!]] [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Lightness: Admission!]] – I see, I met the nerve at the Social Democracy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Next, you say you are Christian-social!]] I get these feedbacks – probably my colleagues too – when we're on the move. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] People are extremely satisfied with government work, especially pensioners, workers, employees, so all you always talk about. [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, that's what you've seen at the workers' chamber election!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] These people outside already – and we are not yet too long in the government – feel that things have moved for them to the positive. People feel that. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And, of course, you can just put it that way – and I'd put it this way: We, also as FPÖ, fulfil this function of social warmth in this government – something you have forgotten as a SPÖ, for years and decades in government. You must accept this accusation, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. We fulfil this function. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Both Mrs Belakovich and Mrs Hartinger-Klein have already mentioned in detail what we have done, what we are planning to do. Maybe again in general: The basic message is: What we want is that work is worthwhile again, that more net remains for the people and – that is extremely important to me personally – it was easier in Austria before – that a social rise is also possible, that even people who do not, I say, grow up in a parent house where milk and honey flow, through performance in school, in the profession socially come up and come to prosperity. [[Abg. New builder: The SPÖ are!]] We have already set in motion all these measures, and we are still going to set them in motion. Finally, I would like to leave it in the direction of social democracy, because the shortage of skilled workers was also the subject today: If you are currently talking to skilled workers, you will hear that they are all quite happy about the shortage of skilled workers. They don't have to be afraid of their job, earn a super money, get everything paid, and now they also have the appreciation of the economy they didn't have over many years. [[Abg. Vogl: (to ÖVP point out) Look over there!]] [[Abg. Music: (significant towards ÖVP) You have to look over there!]] Every specialist outside feels this, and I say this as the last message to social democracy: That's what we've set in motion. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Perhaps the two most important points for my terms: On the one hand, we had the topic today, the child bonus of 1,500 euros per child: If you talk to normal families, you will know what 1,500 euros net for families means. That's a lot of money, and people already feel it, because they also see it monthly at the salary desk. You can't discuss these measures either. You can still try so often to misplace the government: This achievement has already arrived with people, that is also thanks to us, and I think it is very, very good. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second story to predict a little bit – that will come into force in a few months, at the beginning of 2020, and will concern very, very many people who are already on retirement or are about to retire –: We will introduce the announced pension increase to 1,200 euros net, this pension bonus 2020, and that, believe me, also brings many, many pensioners something. [[Abg. Music: 40 years!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 40 years of work!]] Mrs Belakovich mentioned it earlier: That was not possible under dog-tores, under stigers. It's always called, you can't do anything for the minimum pensioners. [[Abg. New builder: 8 billion, he said!]] – 8 billion euros were then. We'll do this. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Those people in Austria who have worked for 40 years or who have replacement periods through child training or federal army/civil service, who reach this 40-year limit, will receive at least a pension of 1,200 euros. This is also a measure in which the social warmth of this government is clearly felt. My speaking time is close to the end, the little stories like unemployment insurance contributions that have been lowered, and similar things I do not want to do again. Maybe a story to conclude: I understand – we were also in opposition – that of course one tries to attack the government. The President of the Federal Government will probably try this again as a speaker after me and represent everything bad, and in part also tell half-truths or even some shudder fairy tales that the government may have in store for in the future. I'll see them smile, that'll be all right. We are concerned with the Austrians, which is the group of people that is important to us; not so the other, to whom the immigration issues are too important. Please ask the people outside if they feel the measures of this government positive! - People do. Please, Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, stay with the facts, don't tell the fairy tales and please note that it's going up in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17510	I should like to welcome a group of guests from Mr Hörl from Tyrol. [[General condolences.]] Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17540	Mr President. Estimated ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Best regards of the group from Tyrol! But I can also welcome a mayor from my hometown, the mayor of Suben, Ernst Seitz, and his charming wife and companion. Welcome to the High House! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The title of today’s urgent request is “Poverty reduction and measures for greater social justice”. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to point out once again what this government has done in just under a year and a half, especially for the fight against poverty. It is a common concern to us, including in this Federal Government, that we continue to reduce poverty. If we look at the data on the risk of poverty, we have been quite successful not only in recent months, but actually in recent years. [[a table on which a blue column with the marking ‘20.6 %’ and a lower red column with the title ‘17.5%’ is to be seen in height]] Finally, from 2008 to 2018, the risk of poverty fell from 20.6 to 17.5 percent, which is by 187 000 people less, and this with increasing population in Austria. In other words, we have been on the right track for years, but what this Federal Government has done in recent months will continue to reduce this poverty. That is our task, and that is what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Who is particularly affected by poverty? – They are long-term unemployed, they are people with non-European citizenship, they are single-parents, they are single households, children's-rich families or persons who have a maximum of compulsory schooling. What has this government implemented in recent months in order to continue to reduce this poverty? – We remain true to a principle here: We help the people who are in an emergency and cannot help themselves. We have proved this several times – I come to the examples. But we expect those who can work and who are healthy, that they also do a job, ladies and gentlemen, because: Social is what creates work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Regular income is the best tool against poverty, because if you regularly obtain income, you are less vulnerable to poverty than those people who do not have it. Therefore, it is important to do everything to help people who do not currently have a job to get a job as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the day on which the Council of Ministers of this new Federal Government met for the first time, we have decided, as the first measure, that the beneficiaries of small incomes, those who go to work, but less deserve – whether that is the carpenter, whether this is the waitress, whether the seller, or whether it is a cleaning force is – to be the first to relieve, with around 300 euros in addition per year for these people. Why? – Because it is important to us that the principle: Performance must pay off!, also must apply. These people work as much as 40 hours a week, but do not always have the most pleasant jobs, and especially for these people 300 euros are very much money. This was the first measure we jointly adopted here – a very social measure. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The following was the family bonus Plus: The family policy of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen, especially the people outside the villages. Mayor Seitz has over 1,000 inhabitants in Suben, and there is no household in Suben where families with children now benefit from this family bonus; land up, there are 1.6 million children, 950 000 families. This is the family policy of this federal government, which is felt by people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We raised pensions in the lower range higher than the inflation rate, plus 2.6 percent. We have been doing this for many years now, so at the end of the day, we are also increasing what these people deserve. Tomorrow we are invited to a joint press conference because we also want to help those who have long contributions to the appreciation that there is a higher minimum pension if you have worked for a long time but still have a very low pension. These are those people who deserve to get a higher income than a minimum pensioner. We will present this in detail tomorrow, a social measure for those people who have worked a lot, but still have “only” – under quotation marks – a minimum pension, because it is important for us to express this appreciation as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17631	Excuse me, I have to interrupt for a moment. Approval and misconceptions from the gallery are prohibited, please do not take place.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17646	They are used to me at home, Mr President, but it's all right. [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Unemployment dates back to which we should all be proud; in particular, long-term unemployment decreases by 8 percent, compared to April 2019 with April 2018. That is what matters: that we bring people back to work. The tax reform: plus 6,5 billion euros to the family bonus. Where do we start? – In the case of small incomes, the reduction of health insurance contributions. The lower rates are then reduced to 20, 30 and 40 percent. All taxpayers will benefit from this. 75 per cent of the total volume goes to the relief of the factor work, ladies and gentlemen! This is what has always been demanded in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen from Social Democracy! You should be grateful to us for implementing this tax reform as we have now presented it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This means more than EUR 1,500 per year at EUR 528, at EUR 2 500 plus EUR 722 per year. This will be felt by people just as they felt the family bonus and how they felt the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. In the case of minimum insurance New, i.e. social assistance, another final word: We have given more for people with disabilities and more for single parents, because the groups are particularly vulnerable to poverty. It is our Christian-social responsibility to be there for these people in particular, which is why we make more money available. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Leichtfried.]] But what we do not want is that when comparing two families, one receives a higher income through social assistance than the one in which a job is pursued. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been in a bad position in recent years, and we are also cleaning it up with this law. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The third measure is that there is no job without German knowledge. We first heard that income is the best tool for combating poverty, so German language needs to be learned. This is what we make available to those who cannot. If you can get the German language, you have at present every opportunity to get a job in Austria and follow a job. We expect those people who can work and are healthy, that they will end up doing a job and accept it. This is fair to those people who get up and work every day in the early morning, who fill the bags with their taxes so that we can even pay out social assistance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the comparison with other European countries and beyond makes us sure. If you come around the world, you can see that in Austria – thank God!, I say – we have the best social benefits worldwide. I have not yet come to a country where there is better performance and where there is greater social security than in Austria. Austria is a social country, ladies and gentlemen, and Austria remains a social country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, we support those who also need this support because they cannot help themselves. But we expect those who can make a contribution to go to work to do the same. This federal government is on a successful path, including in the fight against poverty. We are a social welfare state. However, a social welfare state also means that what is distributed must also be achieved. We keep an eye on that. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an excellent social policy in Austria. I would also like to thank the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17746	Mrs. Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17768	Mr President. Dear ministers! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is absurd that I should thank the government again, as already in the morning, and this time the FPÖ, for your urgent request to your own minister to present the latest figures on the poverty development of recent years in Austria. Why? – Because there is the opportunity to show us that it makes a huge difference, who bears political responsibility for the people of the country, because this success balance, this poverty development that you present in your urgent request, is the result of a policy from 2008 to 2017. The report was published in 2018; this is always the case with reports that they are published afterwards. But it is certainly not the success of a turquoise-blue federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Holzinger-Vogtenhuber and Zadić.]] You know exactly what you're saying: Who was in government at the time? [[Abg. Hafenecker:... selected...!]] – Right, they were heads of social-democratic government and they were Social-Democrat Social Ministers. Let us look back, so that this time, namely 2008 to 2017, was actually marked! What happened back then? – It was the largest economic and financial crisis in the Second Republic since the Second World War, with serious consequences for the economy, with little economic growth and close financial scope, including what has affected the state budget. Despite all this, the socio-democratic governments at that time have managed to invest in people and in the economy, and successfully countered this economic and financial crisis – with the aim of maintaining social compensation in Austria and thus strengthening social cohesion in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Highest unemployment...!]] And what does this turquoise-blue federal government do today, with far better economic growth, with full tax pots, ladies and gentlemen? - She does the opposite. Mrs Bundesminister, you are shortening the minimum guarantee, you delete employment measures for older unemployed people, you are cutting down on apprentices, and I could continue this list. [[Abg. Jarolim: A shame!]] In short: They operate social reduction and endanger social peace in Austria. The example of tax reform, which is the subject today, also shows the difference in how it affects people when you or we bear responsibility in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: The frustration must be so deep, so big!]] It was in 2015 and 2016, under a Social Democratic Chancellor, when a real tax relief for Austria was carried out socially. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Where is the...?]] At the time, 90 percent of the workers received real relief. Yes, at that time the working people in Austria got back more than they paid through the cold progression, the sluggish tax increase. Let us now look at your so-called tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. I now take your figures, the bill of the Federal Government, to look more closely at this. According to your data, the volume of tax reform for workers amounts to EUR 2021 5 billion. According to your own data, ladies and gentlemen, the cold progression is expected to amount to 7,5 billion euros over the period 2021. [[Abg. Hanger: That's not true! The figures are not right!]] A milkmaid bill: Something's wrong with this bill because you're talking about a discharge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I can only see a minus of EUR 2.5 billion for employees in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Loacker and Mr Schellhorn on his work.]] That is, people don't even get back what they have more and more paid into the State Bank during the same period. That is, people don't just pay for this so-called redemption themselves, no, they even pay for it. That's not a burden, it's a burden. [[Abg. Hammer:... is a burden, yes!]] Our opinion on your so-called tax reform is clear: She comes too late, she's too small, and she prefers the wrong ones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is your Federal Government, Mrs Federal Minister, who also distributes billions, but not to the employees in Austria, and not to the small and medium-sized enterprises, no, to the large corporations. Yes, the people in Austria, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have nothing of it at all. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Not at all!]] The big question is: Where does the money come from? Where does this EUR 1.6 billion come from, Mrs. Federal Minister? Who pays for this in Austria? We know who does not pay for it, because it is your colleagues Kickl, Kunasek and Moser who have spoken in recent days and weeks that they will not make these necessary savings in their departments. So I tell you where this money will come from: from the social and health budget. They will save the pensioners, the workers, the unemployed, the apprentices, patients, yes, and the people who need more than ever care. [[Call to the FPÖ: My God! You forgot the SPÖ!]] I wonder how you want to get closer to your goal of providing people with a state care insurance that you have promised. You will not succeed if you have to make these 1.5 or 1.6 billion euros in tax sugars to the 5 percent of the corporations from your budget, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] Yes, that means in the future, people not only pay for the tax reform themselves, in the end they will also have to pay for their care themselves. Yes, the Federal Government, they are weakening social cohesion in Austria, the backbone of social peace, and with it they are easily putting on the risk, which has been built up for decades with hard work in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17960	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e17982	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is not a daily spectacle that a political group is making a urgent request to a minister who belongs to its own party. Obviously, there are communication difficulties, otherwise you could have done that directly. Thus we can participate in the FPÖ internal communication – is also nice. What surprises me is, Mrs Minister, if you read the answers to Mr Belakovich's questions at a pace, as we are used to by ministers who are seriously answering the opposition questions and then down-text them so quickly that you can write as badly as possible and don't get along with what they have answered and what they haven't – but well. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (delighted) That's right!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Do you want to restrict the rights of the parliamentary parties?]] What we see here is a very funny dispute between the three traditional parties about who makes the more social-democratic social policy, who brings even more tax money to the people and who is more and better paying out money, where we already have 106 billion euros in social expenditure. They praise a tax reform. It is alleged that this tax reform is now totally relief and that the small ones in particular benefit from it. Now a very simple example of the calculation: The first 11 000 euros you earn a year are tax-free, since 2009. In 2021, when the longest tax reform in the world, as Wolfgang Katzian rightly said, begins to take place, these 11 000 euros will be 14 000 euros due to inflation. In other words, you have to earn 14 000 euros so that you have the 11 000 euros from 2009. Tax-free will also be 11 000 euros in 2021. They will tax 3 000 euros, which could not be taxed before value. It's cold progression! Now the government goes and reduces the tax rate to this 3 000 euros from 25 percent to 20 percent. To do this, you should now thank the government; for having to tax an amount that you did not tax in the past, just by 20 percent and not by 25 percent. So that's what you're really doing! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] People are not as stupid as you believe, and already notice that they are taken to the arm there. Before the cold progression has not been abolished, you can creep with your cosmetic instruments. [[Abg. Singer: What?]] [[Call the ÖVP: What was it now?]] [[Cheerfulness with NEOS, SPÖ and NOW.]] – You can say that no one has received an order call for fraud. But there are also premieres, let's see! Colleague Belakovich is famous for the declining unemployment. Now, however, I wonder – and this is not possible from the urgent question or from the speech by Mrs Belakovich or from Mrs Minister's speech: What concrete measures have you taken, do you think, have led to declining unemployment? Or was it perhaps the economy? Is it perhaps the case that the companies are doing well, that the business is running, that they are looking for a staggering workforce they don't get at all, and that unemployment could actually be much lower if one had invested in education in good time and the people who are unemployed also had the skills that are so urgently needed for the open spaces? You didn't do that, but you once boast of your great successes. Now comes the reduction in unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions for small earners carried out by Mrs Belakovich. The best way to benefit from these measures is if you earn grossly 1 350 euros per month – 1 350 euros. This is not a typical full-time salary, however, because full-time workers in Austria earn an average of 2 900 euros gross. The average bucklers or average hacklers who go to work 40 hours a week have nothing of your gifts. What you're promoting is part-time workers. [[Abg. Hanger: That's just not true!]] That's true, these are part-time workers. I'm a personal calculator, I can tell you that, colleague Hanger. [[Call the ÖVP: Really a bad one!]] [[Abg. Hanger: But how the cold progression is calculated, you have no idea!]] The part-time workers benefit, but this fits into the black and blue family picture. If the man goes to work full-time and the woman has a part-time job, we relieve them and then the family benefits with the classic role model – she is at home and cooks at lunchtime. Optimal! That's what you want. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Gödl: Free choice! Freedom of choice! Have you ever heard of freedom, Mr. Loacker?]] Let's go to the pensions: I listened exactly when it was announced today that other pension gifts were planned. It must be imagined that the Austrian system is turning to pensions at different levels in the year 55 billion euros. Some of them are financed by contributions, but 21 billion euros are transferred from the budget to pensions through various channels because the contributions do not cover the volume. At the same time, you will be taking care of the minimum security for over a year, which will not cost a total of less than EUR 1 billion; 55 billion- the euro pensions, and you make a giant theatre because of the minimum security of not even 1 billion euros! – This is your social policy: a huge issue mistake! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] The fact that, on average, the Austrians retire in the same age as once in 1970 – only that we are getting much older today – you hide out. There is no single measure, not even microscopically small; there is nothing there. Then it is reported that the retirement age is rising. – Yes, because you continue to use the dog torfer trick – that is the social democratic continuity of governments, the black and blue make it the same as before the red-black – and calculate the invalidity pensions of under 50-year-olds, you can show an increasing retirement age. However, if you look at the so-called integrated retirement age where these invalidity pensions are inside of under 50 years of age, you can see that it has stagnated since 2014. They didn't bring a millimeter together. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Then boast in the best social democratic tradition that you have raised the small pensions more than the big ones. With what side effect? – People who have worked for 20 years in Germany and 20 years in Austria and therefore only receive a partial pension benefit in Austria receive a larger pension increase because they may get a thousand from Germany and a thousand from Austria, and those who have worked for 40 years in Austria receive the smaller increase. - You did that! Reverses, of course, the same way: The German, who has worked in Austria for ten years and 30 years in Germany, also receives this extraordinary increase on its Austrian hull board, which you have decided to make. - Yes, grandios! The best thing is – I have to give the Social Democrats a point you don't get – that you have missed out on your pension increase to cover the increase in luxury pensions. If a national official was perhaps still self-employed as an expert – that should happen – and had a self-employed income, then he will also receive your special increase on his self-employed pension, because this is not combined with his national civil servant's pension. This is your supersocial policy because you don't even fully understand the system. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank God we have the Loacker who understood!]] I can read you a quote: "The path to social justice has been paved with increasing public expenditure, without regard to results or the impact of the high tax burden on competitiveness, employment or private expenditure. Quality social services are a central concern of the social democrats, but social justice cannot be measured at the level of public expenditure. The real test for society is how efficiently these expenditures are used and to what extent they enable people to help themselves.” Who wrote that? – Socio-Democrats Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder have written this in their joint electoral paper for the European elections in 1999. However, they are still following the old social-democratic way from the time before Schröder and Blair, which is about how to powder even more money. You don't care about the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18168	Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18194	Mr President. Dear ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners! It is already courageous of you, colleague Belakovich, to bring the theme of poverty reduction to the tapet with your FPÖ collegiates today. Why is it courageous? – You have come here and asked your own minister to present figures which on the one hand – as regards the reduction of poverty figures – represent a positive development, but on the other hand exactly your actions in 2018, in your time of government. This concerns serious deterioration for special groups of persons: These are on the one hand older people, especially over 65, and on the other hand a particularly vulnerable group, namely children and young people. To trust, to present these figures today, I believe that they are more than courageous, because this shows clearly what your government has been doing in the very past year and what has been caused. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] I would like to do this even more precisely, so that this will also be transparent: In your request, you speak of a new justice, of a new social justice. I would like to show this on the basis of events that took place last year. You go to the whole story and say that you want to help on the one hand the people who are able to work, who show the desire to work, and on the other hand motivate those who are currently not willing to finally find a job and get into the work process. [[Abg. Belakovich: Is that bad?]] On the other hand, I have to mention this specifically here, mention all possible groups across all levels of population, but forget a very special group, which you always mention, but you forget with every single policy action. [[Abg. Neubauer: unemployed politicians!]] These are – I would like to explain it to you in detail – the single parents and their children in this country. In the 2017 election campaign, it was the FPÖ, the ÖVP and all the other parties that promised the single parent that they would jump in that the state would jump in if there was a maintenance problem when they faced a situation in which they needed a maintenance security. And precisely this lack of maintenance is sometimes one of the most serious reasons why this group, alone educators and their children, has such a high risk of poverty. You promise, but so far, the request for maintenance, this central request, your election, and also the ÖVP's election promise, has been postponed from time to time at every meeting of the Family Committee in which he was treated – Mrs Bogner-Strauss is my witness. They just keep pushing it out. In the last plenary session, you made your own request, because it is already so unpleasant that the opposition is constantly called upon to comply with this promise. This application is as follows: Well, let's move it out by 2020 to find a solution! – 2017 promised, 2020 is now the first target date! What happens in these three years? What does the situation look like for this group you always mention, but it just doesn't look like at the end of the day? What about the single parents and their children in this land? [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It goes even further: I have said that I will be happy to see why the political solutions that you are offering are going through on and on. It goes on with social assistance. Mr Wöinger proudly said: We increase the amounts and the compulsory supplements for the disabled and for single-parents! - Yeah, nothing happened. It's just not right! [[Abg. Belakovich: Sure it's true!]] Yes, there are mandatory supplements for people with disabilities, but suddenly the word has come out of the single parent. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] I can't explain where it slipped. What you're doing is pushing responsibility to the federal states. You're moving away, you just push it away and say if the federal states are willing to pay more for single parents, then they can do it. [[Abg. Gödl: You need a course in constitutional law! There is a federal constitution, Mrs Colleague!]] But that you as a state guarantee a minimum of social support for single parents and their children – no, then don't trust it. It goes even further, with the family bonus: We have the situation, among other things, in my home country Upper Austria, that child care in the afternoon has become a fee, that Horte and Krabbelstuben have become a fee; all of this has not been done before. Now it comes to the fact that groups suddenly cease to exist, but there are people – these are often single-parents – who are actually dependent on full-day childcare. There is no longer, however, because the corresponding number of groups does not come about and support through the country does not happen; then the community no longer offers. [[Abg. Gödl: There are other forms of care!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] What is the reality for this person, for this single parent, at the end of the day? – She can’t give her child care, she can’t do a full-time job, she has to go in part-time. As a gift above, she cannot even apply for the full family bonus because her salary is not high enough. All these are cuts I can't understand at all, for a group that would need special support. They cut down again and again and say: We do eh!, but at the end of the day there are simply no political solutions for exactly this area. I would like to refer to the numbers you have tried to speak beautifully today, and I have tried to cut that in my statement of entry. 1.5 million people – the 17.5% of the population mentioned by you, Mrs. Minister – are at risk of poverty or exclusion. Yes, that is the reality that this number has decreased from 2017 to 2018. There are 7 000 people less at risk of poverty than in the year before. But do you know what happened at the same time? At the same time, in the same period – also through your government policy in 2018 – the number of women who are faced with an increase in poverty has increased to 8,000 women. These are 8 000 women over 65 years of age who now fall exactly into this group and suffer from poverty and risk of exclusion. Furthermore, in people over 65 years of age, the number of people at risk of poverty has increased from 12.9 to 13.9 percent. That's nothing I can say about when I come here: I am proud of our government policy and how positive we have developed all of this! - No! – These are not figures from me, Mr Belakovich, which are figures from Eurostat. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would like to make this available to you, but I would like them to be present in the ministry, so that they can be dealt with precisely in terms of this problem, which concerns persons over 65, and does not simply go down and down, which is what has worked very well in the past, and says: Well, we don't have a problem anyway! We're so super on the road anyway! It is always the marginal groups that pass through at the end of the day and are not supported to the extent that would be necessary for these groups. Some industries are particularly affected. 8 percent – in turn, not numbers from me, but from the IHS, from a study from the last year – the population pursuing a job that is active are still at risk of poverty and exclusion. Why? – Because they are part of the Working Poor group; that is, they go to work and just have too little money to live. This group is particularly active in the areas of gastronomy, trade, health and social affairs. So, and what do you have? Is it made concrete in these areas? – They went here and just said: There are, of course, problems, there is bad payment! Of course, there are focusses that we also find, but we are regionalising the list of job failures in principle! Let us get exactly in these areas, which are already badly paid, still foreign workers who are willing to work for a low-cost wage instead of addressing working conditions in their own country! [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As long as you are not willing to change the conditions for exactly these professional groups, there will be nothing better for these 8 percent Working Poor – in the health, social, gastronomy and commerce – in our country either. They make themselves and want to tell us seriously that: They are active in the fight against poverty, but at the same time announce the new figures in the EU-Silc study in a press release and say that the Europe 2020 targets on poverty reduction strategy have been missed. This is an admission of the same! I would simply be interested in what are the measures to achieve this Europe 2020 goal of bringing hundreds of thousands of people out of poverty? – It simply lacks it, I lack it very specifically. I have already tabled a request on this subject several times in the committee responsible. We have a national action plan Danube shipping, we have a National Action Plan Movement et cetera. We have so many national action plans, but what we do not have is a national action plan to combat child poverty in this country. That is why I am making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18343	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18363	Mrs Hartinger-Klein, if you seriously believe that we are bringing out 372,000 children and young people from poverty, you agree and give Mrs Bogner-Strauss a mandate on this. Thank you. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[16:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18443	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Petra Wagner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18470	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With what I have heard here today, with this discourse and with all the emotions that I have already experienced here today, I would like to begin by saying: I'm proud of Austria! I am proud of what is possible with us thanks to the performance of all Austrians. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am proud of the social state of Austria, a social state in which the stronger ones take care of the weaker, a social state that fights poverty, and in which social justice is not a foreign word, but a high-level practice. This is what our citizens see and feel. You know, here in Austria you get support. Each individual can rely on Austria to be there in emergency situations for its citizens – like the fire brigade who saves someone with a jump cloth from a high-level crash. When does such a rescue of the fire department work, ladies and gentlemen? – If enough firemen with a stable and viable jump cloth are in the right place at the right time; if there is a commander who directs the team exactly where the affected person threatens to fall; if all firemen take a joint approach and the jump cloth with all available forces is so excited that the crashed people land safely and do not take any damage. The jump cloth, ladies and gentlemen, is not a hammock. Everyone has to try to get back on their feet. The jump cloth is not a trampoline, there is no hopping around without need. The jump cloth only takes off a deep case if there are enough people to take it with all their strength. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The jump cloth is also not subject to unlimited burden. It can only catch as many as it can carry. Only if this is guaranteed will the rescue work, will the help work. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not just the use of fire brigades. This also applies to any assistance and support that our social system has to offer. Yes, our government confesses itself to a well-functioning social state, to cohesion through social justice. We ensure that assistance and support arrive where they are really needed. However, we also support the fact that we take care of those who, with their contributions, ensure that we can also afford to the welfare state of Austria. This government, in the sense of social justice, takes care of all and is also concerned with an open and necessary discourse, because social justice, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be decreed in a democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18524	Mr Tanja Graf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18549	Mr President. Dear ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators and spectators! Yes, Austria is an economically successful country, a country that offers many opportunities and is good internationally, but above all we are a very social country. Today we are talking about poverty, a subject that concerns us all and affects us. If we look at the figures of Statistics Austria again, we see that we have made progress in the last ten years together, in other words, across party borders. Poverty is falling. That is why I really think it is a bit worrying that the SPÖ, with its broadcasts and statements, draws a picture of Austria that does not correspond to reality and is not felt by the Austrians. I feel that your permanent sluggish step is grossly negligent when you ask me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It also shows me that you are far from reality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The fact is: We are an absolute leader in social expenditure and thus in supporting our social systems. In figures, Mr Commissioner, we are spending more than 105 billion euros, which is at least 105 000 million euros, i.e. almost one third of our GDP, on health and social matters. For example, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, always criticise the minimum guarantee, which is why I am very clear to you here: We support people without a job with an amount of 863 euros per month. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In other European countries, for example in Bulgaria, a person with full-time employment earns an average of 436 euros. One can see quite clearly that someone without employment gets the double, so there can't really be talk of poverty here, as you represent it, to this extreme extent. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Rossmann.]] The figures also speak a clear language on the so-called stressed topic of minimum wage: We are now paying the second highest minimum wage throughout Europe. These are the facts – that is, not a speech of unsocial and unfair, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We clearly confess that we do not leave anyone behind, but that everyone and everyone who needs help also receives it from us. However, I also note very clearly that a social system, which is borne by many people who pay taxes, can only be financially financed if we can put people into employment without employment and keep them there in the long term. That is why the best approach to poverty is employment. Employment is also the only and best prevention in order not to remain solidified in the case of inactivity. What we really do not want is a cross-generational minimum security career. We don't need that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Therefore, it is also important to create the right incentives, and it is only more than just that someone who works is also tax relief in the future. With the new tax reform, we relieve the people of Austria. The small earners will feel more in the wallets, the families will benefit from the family bonus plus, and also the single-parents – my colleague Holzinger, I can give this to you here – will definitely receive the award in those federal states where there is an ÖVP head of state. I can assure you. In these federal states, this supplement will be safely paid to single-parents. And we also relieve the factor of work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] All in all, we relieve 4.8 million taxpayers. We commit ourselves to performance and self-responsibilities, and we also draw this with all our actions. Every relief for workers and employers contributes to the competitiveness of our country and finances our generous social system. I should like to ask you, my dear SPÖ, not only to approach things one-sidedly, because, unfortunately, your redistributive logic will not be able to afford to anyone in the future, nor will Austria continue at all. A responsible policy, as we do, creates sustainable discharges without bringing new taxes or even debt at the expense of the next generation. We remain true to our motto: relieve instead of burdening. I would also like to thank our two ministers on the government bank for supporting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18649	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18670	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Hartinger-Klein, I have just been told, just a few minutes ago, that these connections between the identities and the liberals also come from your cabinet, which means that an employee of your cabinet appears on the big donor list of the identities. I am surprised that you did not take the opportunity to distance yourself from the fact that FPÖ and FPÖ officials and employees from your office, from your closest cabinet, are financing identity. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was no question!]] That is something you should be ashamed of and what you should at least find clear words in the House. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] [[Abg. Loacker: She has not been allowed to choose the employees herself!]] On the tax reform one has to say that at first sight much seems to be very positive in it. Lowering taxes and taxes on work is a positive thing. At first glance, there are some measures which seem quite reasonable. However, you also have to risk a second look – and then you see that there is more shadow than light. The first thing you can see is once the volume. How big is this pot of cold progression? Employees, income recipients, people who go to work, pay this cold progression over their income in this pot, from which tax reforms are then financed. The State Secretary of FPÖ, an unwarranted witness, himself says that in this legislative period the EUR 7.5 billion is. Now let us look at how much tax on work is reduced by the collective reform, cumulated over the entire legislative period, and here: That's just 5 billion euros. In other words, the volume of reduction by the tariff is much less than that of the Minister of Finance and the cold progression. That's why you just have to say: These tax reform and tax reduction are too small – at least in terms of the labour factor. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Second is that we look at the economic effect: We are currently in a situation where the economy is getting weaker. We see this not only in overseas countries or in other European countries, but also in Austria. It would be expected that the tax reform will then be timing in such a way that it supports the economy. But what we see is that the Federal Government intends to bring this tax reform into effect only so late that it is far too late for the economy. So you have to say, She's not only too small, she's too late. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Anger.]] And the third thing we're looking at is who benefits from the tax reduction in what ratio. There are not only taxes on work, but also taxes on wealth and capital – corporate tax – which are also massively reduced. Let's just look at the large donor of the Turks, KTM chief Pierer. How much does he benefit from the tax reform per month? – Mr Pierer, for example, pays EUR 180 000 less tax contributions. What about a cleaning force at Pierer? - 18 euros a month. [[Abg. Deimek: What does a cleaning force deserve?]] In other words, a simple employee of KTM will pay less taxes and taxes in the month of 18 euros, but the boss will pay 180 000 euros less. [[Abg. Deimek: The boss also deserves a lot from the cleaning woman!]] That's the tens of thousands. That's what you obviously think of redistribution, namely that the little ones pay the whole thing to the big ones. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] The policy you're doing here is not where the shoe is pressing. If you knew where people in this country are pushing the shoe, then you would do something in the area of living, then you would, for example, pick up the SPÖ's proposals on how to make living cheaper. [[Call the FPÖ:For party members!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Instead, think about how social housing could be privatized. - That's certainly the wrong way. You make policy for rental sharks, you make policy for corporations – we make policy for people! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18784	Next item is the report by Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18808	Madam President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! Mr Obernoster and Mr Ottenschlager also criticised one of the previous agenda items that I, as it were, cannot praise their work. I am also sorry that Mr Obernosterer is so disappointed by me. I now have Bammel directly to speak here, and it almost hurts me – but I would like to express my praise now, and then I refer to the statements made by Mrs Belakovich, who said: End of this debt policy. Do you know why this debt policy must end? – Because taxpayers pay as much as never before, not because they have saved expenditure or implemented reforms. On the contrary: It is necessary to give great praise to entrepreneurs, and above all I must express my condolences to those taxpayers who belong to the middle class, by the Minister Hartinger-Klein. It is the cold progression that is taking place here. I would also like to make this clear on the basis of an example. You certainly remember: Last year, Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor wished for a strong wage increase in summer. It was unique that the government wanted this from the social partners. You don't actually do that. On average, however, around 3 per cent came out of it; more came out of the metallurgical, around 3.8 per cent. We would have had the opportunity to pay workers for their good work dramatically better. What happened to the metallurgical kv increase? – It cost employers 261 million euros – employees received 114 million euros. 56 percent of this 261 million euros has been collected by the state – and you are talking about the end of debt policy?- Oh, my God! Scramble your revenue. You do not have reforms in this whole tax package, which is not a tax package, but actually just a collective reform. They have not attacked any point to save expenditure. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have not started a single point – you lack the courage to put you all together – in order to start a pension reform or a health reform. You did zero in the administration. You say you are saving in the system; this is a blind flight for all the parliamentarians here in the hall, I think, only two or three people. And you have done nothing to make people better – both now and in the next generation. [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] The debt policy remains the same when economic performance decreases a little. That's the dramatic thing about the whole story, and I wonder what I'm supposed to praise you for now. The thing with the praise is really going through my head now. Should I praise you for the smoker regulation? Should I praise you for sharing the seasonal quota with regard to the shortage of skilled workers, but the quota has remained the same? I can't imagine that You really have a great interest in us to take care of the shortage of skilled workers. They are not interested in the fact that employees deserve more and cost less. You have no interest in just adopting any reforms in this regard. I can't praise you for that, and that's a springing point that should give us all a thought when we talk about praise. I would like to praise you madly because I would allow my employees to earn more and have more net in the Sackerl, and because I would allow entrepreneurs to pay less for their employees as far as the cost sector is concerned. – Above all, there is a need to make reforms, but there is no courage. If an opposition party were there to lull you honey around the mouth, we would have missed our job. However, don't try to make a pity tour here, how good you are! [[Abg. New builder: We don't need to, we're good!]] – You are only so good because the entrepreneurs pay so many taxes, and above all you are so good because the cold progression is so persistent and brutal. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We don't have real wage increases – and you don't care. 14 to 16 billion euros were promised per year. The 16-billion-euro promise, I believe, was broken by the vice-chancer, your boss, and the 14-billion-euro promise was broken by the head of the family minister. How much do we get together? – We don’t even get EUR 5 billion net. It's a game of mourning. It's really a game of mourning when you stand here at the speaker's desk and say you're doing good work. – No, you do this good work if already, then only at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18886	Next word reported: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e18910	Madam President. High house! I have noticed a sentence in the FPÖ's request, which very much upsets me as an economist. It says: “Unemployment has been falling continuously since the start of this Federal Government.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Belakovich has even said that she is going back massively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] – So there can be no talk of massif, but there is nothing to do with the accession of the turquoise-blue government, but nothing to do at all. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Proud of your own! You're presumptuous!]] As an economist, it really hurts me because it's economic nonsense. [[Abg. Worm: The fact is that it is!]] Let us remember the year 1992, the election campaign of President Clinton, when he said: “It’s the economy, stupid!” – It’s the economy, stupidhead! I miss in the ranks of the FPÖ, the ÖVP, but also in the ranks of the government – in particular – basic knowledge of economics. I remember very well, Mrs Minister, when you were here on your own question: “Who creates the work?” in which hall have called: “Sorry”, the “Economics creates work”. And then you showed up at SPÖ and said, “Please notice this once. ” And with “Economics” you meant the entrepreneurs. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: No, we are all!]] - Ah, that's all of us now. But this is a whole new aspect. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein.]] – Yes, as an economist, I know. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Yes, me too! Me too!]] – Well, then that went through all the media, it was in all the newspapers, and you, Mrs. Minister, have never demented that. [[Abg. Rosary: Especially in Pravda!]] And then I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs the question: Who is doing the job?, and the Minister of Economic Affairs has said: The entrepreneurs and nobody else. [[Abg. Deimek: The Supreme Soviet creates work, and the...!]] – This is the understanding of this government for who creates the work. There is no point in saying that the economy is always supply and demand. [[Abg. Deimek: No, the economy follows a five-year plan!]] Everyone who once attended an introduction lecture for economics knows this, as does the Nobel Prize winner Samuelson, who wrote a very well-known textbook. That is also the reason why the dear God has equipped us with a right and a left eye: one for the offer and one for the demand. Supply and demand are always driven by all economic operators, i.e. companies, employees, households and the state. I would like to hear this from this government, but also from the representatives of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. I would say no one without the other, offer not without demand. Therefore: Please notice! – Mrs Minister, also at your address: Remember that and do not frustrate such nonsense from the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19050	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take back the expression 'unsense'.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19066	No, I will not take back the expression “unsense. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19084	Then I'll give you a call for order. [[Abg. Rossmann: I used it here, at this point, so often!]] [[Abg. New builder: That doesn't mean he was good for that!]] – No, deputies! – Mr deputies, you know, it makes a difference whether or not you think that some kind of thing would be nonsense, or whether you blame a person for it. [[Abg. Rossmann: Madam President, and I will continue to use it in the future!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Nobody hears that anyway!]] That is why, if you do not take it back, I will give you a call for order because you used it as a personally defamatory accusation, not as an assessment of any facts. That's the difference. That is why I would ask you to take this back as a personal accusation to Mrs Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19147	No, no, no, I've been talking about the subject before. I have long explained this, Madam President, and for this very reason I will not take back this expression: It has been for me to stress that what Mrs Minister said about the question of who created work is an economic nonsense, and I remain.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19198	Mr Rossmann, I would like to point out to you for this accusation and for this so-called personal diffamation – not because of the context, but because of that. – also give a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19227	You can do this, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. New builder: This is not a minister!]] I accept this call for order, but I tell you that this call for order is not justified. [[Abg. New builder: This is not a minister!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On the question of poverty: Yes, poverty goes back, of course, but here too: It does not go back because there is now a turquoise-blue government, poverty has fallen continuously in recent years. But if we look at how many people in Austria still live in poverty or are threatened with poverty, that is still more than 1.2 million people in that country. That is, every seventh Austrian or every seventh Austrian lives in poverty or poverty. For example, with the social assistance Newly for families, they have also contributed a lot to the fact that families with children do not get out of this poverty situation. My credo in politics, and I have often said that at this point too, is not to seek a zero deficit, but zero poverty. This must be a social policy objective. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] That's why it's all right, that's the point of my economic policy. If there was a lot of talk here that there was a tax relief, I have to say: The entire budget space, even more than the entire budget room, has been used to carry out discharges – not just for distribution policy, I am going to address them – but this has the effect that there is no longer any money to combat poverty, to combat climate change, to combat the need for care in our country. I therefore ask the representatives of the FPÖ and the ÖVP how they intend to finance this. If, in this context, we have repeatedly been talking about discharge, and if Mr. Co. Wöginger has meant that people feel all this, I must say, many people feel nothing about the discharges you have made. First of all, there are not even a few people in connection with the family bonus, who are not subject to pay tax and are not single-parents and therefore benefit exactly zero from the family bonus. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, they can be hard when they...! It's a little hard!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bösch.]] Then, of course, there is a strong differentiation between those who have no pay and income tax liability and those who are subject to wage and income tax. For the first group, the additional child amount is 250 euros, for the other groups up to 1 500 euros. You, Mr Wöginger, have also said here that people feel a bit of a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. This is also wrong, because people with incomes of up to EUR 1 381 have not paid unemployment insurance contributions before the reduction and do not pay unemployment insurance contributions even after the reduction. [[Abg. Wöger: Why?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But in between!]] - No, not until then. No, that's not true! They deliberately say the untruth, and that bothers me about your statements. [[Abg. Wöginger: I said between 1 350 and 1 950! Is that right?]] Before the end of my speaking time, let us come to the tax reform, to reduce the tariff which is being implemented in stages. That is what the proposal says, the small incomes in particular will be relieved. – That too is wrong. The strongest discharge is available for income of 3 500 euros. Well, that's not a small income anymore! This is not even average income, because the average income for men is 2 500 euros and for women 1 700 euros. [[Abg. New builder: With you it's a little higher!]] These are the high incomes, and this discharge continues to continue to go up to 6 000 euros. These groups are more relieved than income below 3 500 euros, which is now a fact. I would also like to address the disparity between the large group of taxpayers, workers on the one hand and capital companies on the other. In the case of capital companies, a two-stage reduction in corporate tax is planned. 1.7 billion in the 2023 discharge year, and this is money that is mainly distributed to large corporations, because about 300 large companies in Austria pay about 50 percent of the corporate tax. For the many small and medium-sized companies there is too little. In addition, there is, of course, a counter-financing risk, which may result in not very few of the taxpayers in the event that there is a reduction, a reduction in expenditure, having to finance part of this tax relief itself. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion – because it has always been said that social warmth has been absorbed in the country –: I can't see anything about the social warmth. I continue to see social cold through many measures of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19380	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr.in Bogner-Strauß spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19402	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear visitors to the gallery! Dear sisters, dear spectators at home! Austria is a wealthy country, we are well, we have more opportunities than ever before. This is primarily the responsibility of the companies and the working people: their innovative strength, their zeal, their talents. Our social standards in Austria are extremely high, we have already heard from previous speakers, and poverty is fortunately falling. Nevertheless: There is poverty and there is poverty threat, and each individual personal destiny is affecting and is a social challenge. Our task as a federal government is, of course, to develop strategies and measures – strategies and measures that help. We take this task very seriously. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As the Federal Government, we started 17 months ago to introduce change for Austria and to ensure more fairness and more justice in Austria, but also in Europe, and we work for it every day. In most cases, poverty does not mean that you do not have a roof above your head or that you have nothing to eat. Many of the affected, however, cannot afford what appears otherwise than normal. Growing Up in Poverty Means Lack and abandon and often make sick. Low social status is accompanied by a lack of recognition and education, and poverty-affected people are often less self-confidence and ask, as studies show, for help more rarely. We strongly oppose these effects, and therefore we take effective action against all forms of poverty. One thing before: The best measure, however, we have already heard, is work, is to ensure that the people in Austria work. Having a good work means feeling comfortable, and having a perspective. This is particularly true in the context of poverty reduction. Therefore, we have set ourselves as a priority that we create work and bring more people into work, because creating work means combating poverty. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As Minister of Women, of course, I look at women in particular. We have seen that poverty is falling; unfortunately, this is not true for single pensioners. Nearly a third of the single pensioners were at risk of poverty in 2018, and from 2015 to 2017, the figures increased from 22 to 27 percent. Reasons for poverty at age are known: One reason is that women earn 20 percent less than men in Austria, women still do most of the unpaid work – I am thinking about childcare now, and I am thinking about care tasks that will become even more important in the future – and another essential reason is that women work more frequently and above all for longer periods of time than men. All this leads to a lower pension. We are, of course, taking action. A measure of this is to invest more in childcare. Together with the countries, we invest 700 million euros in the development of childcare facilities in the coming years, but above all also in the flexibility of opening hours. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this way we improve the supply and, above all, allow women – what the figures tell us – to get back into work or work more hours. This creates more income and, of course, prevents long-term poverty in old age. On the other hand, we build on family benefits. We have introduced the family bonus Plus – I can of course be particularly proud of it as a family minister. In particular, we relieve small and medium-sized incomes. 1.6 million children benefit from it, almost a million families benefit from it, and for this we take 1.5 billion euros into our hands. This is the largest family relief that ever existed in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition, we pay the family allowance, and we are one of the few countries in Europe that pays the family allowance beyond maturity. We're paying a really generous babysitting fee. There are very many possibilities and variants to obtain child care benefits. We have a family hard balance for families in need. These can make a request from us and receive additional money. [[Abg. Höbart: There is nothing more to do for the SPÖ!]] And we must not forget family policy benefits! We spend a lot of money on school-free travel and, of course, also on the school-book campaign, and this, of course, also reduces the maintenance costs for our children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The Federal Budget is, as you say, a budget that reflects politics. A budget is put in figures policy, and I am really glad that we can say that we spend 10 percent of our federal budget on family benefits. This shows and demonstrates the importance the family has for us as a federal government. With this social system, we are extremely sure. This has been confirmed to us, but this also shows the comparisons within Europe. We have also seen that with these family benefits we can reduce family poverty by half. I can only say one thing: The family benefits we pay in Austria, and not least the family bonus are effective and effective. This is very essential, because poverty is robbing opportunities and sad prospects. That is why we in this Federal Government will jointly use all the options available to us to reduce poverty and reduce suffering. It is important for us that people have work, because with it they have a perspective, and also appreciation is often associated with a work. We will align our social system in such a way that the benefits arrive where they are needed and where they work. And what is of particular importance to me as a family minister: The families and children in our country should have the certainty that we as the Federal Government are supporting them where they need it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19468	The next item is the report by Mr Werner Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19490	Madam President. Dear women Federal ministers! It is already remarkable what has been going on in this Republic for 18 months. [[Call:]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] There is a great policy being made by the Federal Government, and there is virtually no draft law presented here, which is not subject to permanent criticism mainly from the SPÖ. [[Call:Bravo]] [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] If, at the end of the day, one goes on to say that one even connects with the fact that poverty in Austria is still being forced by these laws, then the fun actually ceases, because the opposite, and many speakers have already said this today, is currently the case in Austria. That's why I thought that today I might do something like a fact check to present a few examples to the audiences at the gallery and also to the television audiences and to address a few things simply. They say that this government does not make a good family policy. – You did not agree to the Family Bonus Plus. I don't understand this because if you say that's all bad, then you already have to take note that, as representatives of the Federal Government, we certainly don't make a policy for the NEOS and certainly no policy for the SPÖ, but we make politics and laws for the people of this country! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If a million people in Austria have already applied for this family bonus plus and thus receive a relief of up to 1,500 euros, then you can assume that this is a measure against the poverty you have apostrophic, which we are supposed to bring about here. They say that the Federal Government is not doing a good tax policy. – This federal government has managed, and it will also present it to achieve a zero deficit in the budget. I would like to know when a SPÖ government has succeeded in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Margreiter.]] It has never succeeded because you have always made debts to the people, ladies and gentlemen, dear. That's reality. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] They also say that we are not doing a good social policy. – I am thinking of the pensioners who, instead of receiving an inflation rate of 2.0 percent, received one of the 2.6 percent of this federal government, with whom the purchasing power for these people could be greatly strengthened, ladies and gentlemen. If from 1.1.2020 we raise the minimum pension to EUR 1 200 and for married people to EUR 1 500, this is a massive contribution to reducing the poverty of old age in this sector, which has already been mentioned. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Loacker, you are criticising pension policy, certainly in some areas also right, but you have still not told the electorate: They represent the Swedish model. – I can only take one point of this Swedish model out of here today. Do you know how long people in Austria would have to work according to their model so they can get a pension? - We figured this out: Up to 70 years, people today have to work in Austria, men and women alike. Mr. Loacker, do you want that? We don't want that! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The issue of unemployment has been raised several times. I am very proud that we have managed to help 30,000 people in this country. This is the best way for people to fight poverty, that must be it. If you say that we would have benefited from the entire economic miracle, so that everything falls into the lap: We didn't like it in the lap! Mrs Bundesminister Schramböck has now set out for a quarter of an hour examples of how this government has created a framework for the economy, so that it is precisely this drain, namely to reduce unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I can tell you what amazes me and the media as well. The media now write completely unhappily, they no longer understand this boycott keeping of SPÖ. All of these issues, which we now decide, are on and for themselves the most important social issues you should always agree with. They don't do it, and now no one in Austria understands it anymore. You prefer to celebrate Lenin's birthday and deal with internal problems, which prevents you from getting back into political life. Kreisky said at the time: “That a few billion more debts would make me more sleepless nights than a few hundred thousand unemployed would be able to prepare me.” – You have done just the opposite with your voting behaviour. With your voting behaviour, you drive people into unemployment, whether by not consenting to biogas plants, at the economic location as a state target that we have decided today, or at the family bonus Plus. All this goes to the SPÖ account. To do so, you must apologize to your employees. I'd be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19581	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Loacker reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19606	Mr Neubauer has said that if we had the Swedish system, we would have to work up to 70 in order to be able to retire. I'm actually correcting: The rule pension age in Sweden is 65 and you can retire from a age of 61, taking into account life expectancy and mathematical calculation of life expectancy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19640	Next word reported: Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19665	Madam President. Women Ministers! High house! The subject of this urgent question is: ‘Poverty reduction and measures for greater social justice’. I now say, or I say to all political groups, that this is the very subject of every group's social policy, and yet we are discussing here as if we had the greatest dissent. Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you that social policy is, and will continue to be at the heart of the debates in this House. Distinguished we do a bit far in the likes. That is why this government has already launched a number of measures. You can only repeat them over and over again that people also get this: This is the increase in small and medium-sized pensions. It is the family bonus Plus, from which 950 000 families and 1.6 million children benefit. It is the new social assistance that will bring more justice. It is a tax reform that will bring a EUR 5 billion relief for small and medium-sized incomes. – You can’t say it often enough: This government holds what it has promised. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how does it really look? – 17,5 percent – this is a value of Statistics Austria – are threatened by poverty or exclusion. Also If this value is quite a genuine and good international comparison, we are nevertheless too much at risk of poverty and exclusion. Ten years ago, there were 1.7 million who were at risk. In the last ten years, we have been able to reduce this figure by nearly 190 000 people, which is more than 10 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! This was and is a success of the policies of the previous governments and, I believe, an objective of the current government. These measures already adopted and the following measures by this government will also lead to a significant downturn in this value. However, it is true that these figures must be enjoyed with caution, for if one sees that Slovakia, for example, is at less risk of poverty than Austria, then there are some questions on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a fact that statistics measure the inequality between incomes rather than at risk of poverty. Only as an example of what this results: If we were to come here and double all income in Austria, we would still have the same number of people at risk of poverty as we do now in these statistics. That sounds paradoxical, but it is a result of these statistics. This government is too much for every vulnerable person. That is why a large number of measures have already been implemented. We relieve Austria of a fair tax reform for small incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look here [[Keeping an expression in height on which the following is illustrated]] Here is a married couple, Roman and Eva; he earns 1 000 euros net a month, the mother earns 1 750 euros net a month; they have two children together. In future, this family will receive more than €4,000 in relief from the measures of this government. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the social policy of this government. This is relief for people. This is a family policy that you can look for all over the world. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We have put the family bonus Plus into effect with a directly noticeable discharge for all families in Austria. 950 000 families, 1.6 million children will benefit from this family bonus. Social assistance Newly supports the socially weak and creates new justice in this country – I think this is an important step. And last but not least: Small and medium-sized pensions have been significantly increased – for the people who have worked to build our country. This government relieves those who already have it very difficult, and above all: This government holds what it has promised.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19735	Next item is the report by Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19759	Madam President. Women Federal Ministers! I have to say one thing: It does very, very hurt, when one has to hear here how the positions are – different because of what we represent – but it does well to hear something positive, namely that the previous government under SPÖ Chancellorship has built a country in which prosperity and social justice were created. This is just fine, and there are still a number of mandates in the government parties who appreciate it, and that has been expressed today. But it hurts damn well when we get out of here and just get caught up in what has so far been created by social system and social justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. It's just bad talk is not okay, I can even understand that, but it hurts even more if you're only saying bad things when you get out of here and say that this tax reform is the nonplusultra. – This is a Pimperl reform compared to what happened in 2015 when 5 billion euros went to workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We did not have this high economy at the time, and we did not have these conditions in the budget at that time to finance it. And you go here and you announce 3.5 billion euros of relief, for a time when we have already paid ourselves everything ourselves, and say that counter-financing will save 1.5 billion euros. Mrs Sozialminister! I miss your appeal when the Minister of Education, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence say: Not at my budget! Where's your call? [[Abg. Margreiter: Exactly!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where is your cry that you say no savings in the fight against poverty and the production of social justice, no savings in my place? We miss that from you. If They then go here and say that there is more employment and less unemployment: Yeah, you didn't do that! I'm telling you, in the case of a high-economy, that's not your fault. It's not a miracle either. This has been achieved because the framework conditions were created by politics, and the previous government was responsible for it! These are the facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hauser: Exactly!]] They say the pensions have been so greatly raised. I ask you: Where do pensioners have an increase in their pension if expenditure on weekly shopping has increased by over 3.5 percent? There you can write the 2 percent to 2.6% somewhere, which is a loss for pensioners. These are the facts. [[Abg. Houses: Under the SPÖ they didn't even have 2 percent! But now I stop calling in, because you don't understand!]] The last point: What do you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, have against the children in our Republic? Please do not go out and say that 1.6 million children benefit from this family bonus! That's not true! Out of 1.6 million children, 700 000 children do not get this full amount. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are children among them, they have nothing at all, and this has nothing to do with social justice and combating poverty. Also, say the social assistance New is so great. They have relocated responsibility to countries in the case of measures for disabled people. They saved again with families with many children. [[Abg. Belarusian: False!]] This is not a social policy to combat it. You are not a social injustice and therefore you do not fight poverty at all! If you talk about social warmth again and again: This is more than overstated, which is unreasonable and not to listen. To what you are doing in social policy, I tell you openly and honestly: [[Abg. Margreiter: Separate!]] In every refrigerator, in every fridge, in every freezer it is warmer than your social policy in the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19895	Mr Scherak, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19920	I too have to correct colleagues Neubauer. He said at the speaker's desk towards SPÖ and NEOS that we did not agree to the family bonus Plus. I'm actually correcting: In spite of criticism, the NEOS voted in favour of the family bonus Plus.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19954	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Jörg Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e19979	Madam President. Women Federal Ministers! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Hartinger-Klein! I was a little speechless now when I listened to you, because I have to tell you openly what you have delivered, that was embarrassing, that was nothing but embarrassing. You present the figures of the year 2017 and pretend to have had something to do with it! This is embarrassing, Mrs Social Minister! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] If you could get reddish, if you could all get reddish, it would be a good opportunity to do it now. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ, NEOS and JETZT.]] I would like to ask you, because you are so happy to ask questions, Mrs Social Minister, that you ask yourself one again on this report: What was my performance? Please ask yourself this question! They will be as successful as Mr Meischberger. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] If we already have confidence in the subject, I would like to address something that has nothing to do with your request, because I am also interested in it. The Federal Chancellor has recently said here that he does not tolerate any identities in ministerial cabinets. Now we're on it, one of you is sitting with you. What do you say, Mrs. Sozialminister? Please, what do you say? [[Congratulations and Oh-Rufe at SPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of JETZT.]] [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Sits nobody! That's a premise!]] And I'd like to ask you a question: How can you, as a social minister, agree to a tax reform which provides 1.5 billion euros to the largest groups in Austria as a basket money, at the expense of the sick, the pensioners, the caregivers and the unemployed, estimated Mrs Social Minister? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They were the only ones who didn't say anything about these 1.5 billion and who didn't say she didn't want to pay it out of her budget. I would like to ask you a question, a third question. The government has a remarkable ability to say the one relatively well and to do the other, while you are not bad. Now the message control has run a little bit out of the row because of the pomme affair, but in principle you do it well. I would like to refer to page 9 of your Presidency programme, where you say that the Federal Government wants to start the fight against tax dumping at European level. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Social dumping!]] - Yes, what did you do? Have you been working for common stocking bases? Has Are you in favour of harmonising the Feast? Have you been engaged in the fight against the 28 tax systems? - Nothing! [[Abg. Hauser: What have you brought together all the time? Nothing!]] When the industrial association snaps with its fingers, jump like a dressed puddle and lower the KÖST in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20070	Deputies! I urge you to take back the expression “dressed puddle. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20085	Then I take the expression back and say: Jump obediently when the Industrial Union calls. [[Abg. Rädler: It's never going deeper!]] Mrs Sozialminister! They are a minister who, with her activity or inactivity, has made the richest people in the country richer and those who need to get up every day and work hard for her money do not get richer. The invoice has been presented to you for the first time at the workers' chamber elections, and it will be presented to you the next time during the European elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20123	The next item is the speech by Mr Peter Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20147	Madam President. Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to report briefly in connection with the labour market and the handling of cabinets and ministers with the labour market from January 2018 – that is, shortly after the German Federal Government has been fishing: There was a letter of thanks on 10.1.2018. I quote from this letter of thanks: Thank you! I would like to thank everyone who has helped me in the last year and, above all, recently and has supported my work. - Quote. And then it goes on as follows: Now it's said to have a longer breath. It goes on now, and you are a reason for this with your support. - Quote. Signature: Martin Sellner. One of the recipients is a certain Hansjörg Payr. He has nothing at all to do with the Social Minister at that time, but he is donating to Sellner. If you look through the files, you will find another donor at the payment service provider Stripe four lines under Hansjörg Payr: Brenton Tarrant. And again and again in booking lines: Hansjörg Payr, Brenton Tarrant and many others. - So, these are facts. ==References== Hansjörg Payr will not work with Martin Sellner, but with Social Minister Hartinger-Klein and will receive a special contract. [[Call the SPÖ: Unmistakable! Unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: A special contract? Why a special contract?]] Now the Minister for Social Affairs can say: I had no idea that was an inconceivable labour market expert, and if I knew he was coming from Sellner's support with Brenton Tarrant, then I wouldn't have taken him! – But she should have known, because the Minister of the Interior has explained to us here in the House and in the BAT study committee that all Cabinet staff will be checked by BAT at level 2 before they are employed. Now there are two options: Either the identity supporter Hansjörg Payr has stated this in his security review – then we have to ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Social Affairs why he is a Sellner-Spezi, who was born on 10 October. January 2018, the same day as Brenton Tarrant donated, has nevertheless been taken, then we have to ask this question. However, if he has been silent and has not stated in the security review that he has financially supported the identities, the Minister of Social Affairs has to remove him from the cabinet immediately! There's no alternative! [[Congratulations with JETZT and SPÖ.]] I ask you, Mrs Social Minister, to clarify this: Has your identitarian supporter Hansjörg Payr informed you and the BAT that he is at least financially supporting the identities, or has he kept this secret and has he lost the BVT and you? [[Abg. Herbert: What does this have to do with the AMS?]] You will have to answer this question to the National Council just as we will address a question to the Interior Minister in the BAT study committee. [[Abg. Neubauer: Can't you talk about the subject?]] These are the conditions in this Republic. If you used to look into a cabinet, you've always looked: Is this from any social partners?, Is there any political relationship?, and in the most serious case: Does he come out of consumption? or: Is he from Raiffeisen? – These were the big questions we asked ourselves. And sometimes – I have to say – we were shocked when we had to find out: Yes, it really came from Raiffeisen or it really came from consumption. [[Abg. Deimek: And the payr is from Tyrol, and that's much worse, isn't it?]] In the case of liberals, this question does not arise. There is only the question: Is he from the identities? Did he deliberately support right-wing extremists and Neonazis financially? And: How does the Social Minister come to the absurd idea that the identity supporter and part of the Sellner-Brenton-Tarrant-Network Hansjörg Payr – all this is a network, a global network from Christchurch to the Social Ministry, to the Cabinet, which is a network – - did she know or did she not know? [[Abg. Belakovich: Could you say something about the matter?]] It's always the same thing: Where you're looking, the same comrades show up. This is why it is so difficult to deal with policies when employment policy - [[Abg. Belakovich: I believe that! You've never dealt with politics before!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20267	You have to come to the end of the sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20283	- in the Freedom Party and also at the head of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is obviously called employment policy for identity. And this – and I hope for a clear majority in this House – is an employment policy for identities in the cabinets of Austrian Federal Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20310	Mr Efgani Dönmez is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20331	Madam President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators at the gallery! Dear Peter, your struggle, your struggle against right-wing extremism in all honors, but the poor in this country will not even bring it a sausage summer. Let us therefore discuss what this item on the agenda is about. Many previous speakers have already said it: In Austria, over 1.2 million people live in poverty. [[Abg. Pillow: They... don't take you!]] The valued Minister has also said that we have to create jobs, we have to set up appropriate opportunities. – Yes, but let us, please, conduct the discussions honestly and sincerely! Mrs. Minister, if you are healthy and have the right training required in the labour market and in the economy, it is also normal in a service company that you can do the service and secure your livelihood, it can even bring it to a modest prosperity. But what about all the people who do not have this opportunity because they have an impairment? Many of those people with a wide range of impairments have so far been housed in the public sector. However, there has been or is now also the red pencil. The Ministries have to save. It hits people with disabilities the hardest. I can tell you from Upper Austria of some young people. One is nearly 25, it will be in August 25. He has written hundreds of applications to the most diverse companies so that he can get an apprenticeship. The manko these young people have: He's in the body of a nearly 25-year-old, but he's on the development stage of a 12-year-old. How are these people to find a job, a teaching place if they get a rejection after another – or those we sent earlier in early retirement and who today are sent by the PVA from one examination to another, from one chief physician to another in the circle? Let us be honest with the discussions: Yes, in a performance society it is important to be able to and must perform, and anyone who has all seven twigs together will also want to perform this performance, but there are many, many people who cannot do it because they are impaired and sick. This is a huge challenge for us politicians, and these people, under whatever government, are extremely difficult. The other point is: There are certain laws. We will not be able to put all the gravity out of power here, and we will not have any influence on the weather either, but it is also a lawfulness – from the natural sciences – that large fish always eat small fish. We all here in this house are privileged, we could enjoy a good education, we also enjoyed good schooling, but many people did not have this opportunity for various reasons. What do we do with these people in a service society? As a women's minister, you know better than we all know that very, very many women under most precarious employment conditions have to perform their service, especially in the social and health professions. Why? – Because work is poorly paid in these sectors – in the care sector, in the health sector, also in education – because we have many sectors, for example, caregivers from Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, need to be brought here to Austria in order for the system we have to work and to be maintained in half. Mrs Sozialminister! I spoke to you about three months ago about this and asked you to look more closely at the wild growth of these social agencies, which are providing these nursing women, among whom there are some black sheep, and to take a look at it. I haven't received a feedback to this day. But I get a lot of emails every day that there's a huge problem. I have gone into politics because I want to make my contribution and continue to support those who have not fallen on the butter side of life, who need support and where to fight against injustice. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls of – pointing towards ÖVP]] [[Mr Knes and Mr Duzdar.]] - Why are you laughing at the SPÖ? I believe that these are parts of your ideals too! But maybe it was like that once, I don't know. In any case, we must conduct these discussions, ladies and gentlemen, honestly and sincerely. Not everyone who does not get a job is a refusalr and a tachinizer and someone who wants to live by the public hand, but there are many, many personal circumstances why these people do not live on the labour market. Here I appeal to the spectators at home in front of the screens: Maybe you have some teaching place for a person with disabilities. Please report to me! I will make everything possible for people to make contact so that we can accommodate at least some of those people who have a hard time and not just produce warm air. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20386	Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20410	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! This debate is about the fight against material poverty, which this Federal Government has actually taken up, and which is already giving rise to the first successes. I think that's in all our interest. But I find something else where this government is in fact still in need of reprisal, and that is the fight against moral poverty which has been inflamed here by this speaker's seat. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: The fungus knows no morality!]] There has been a word message before, a previous speaker has meant that he rejects everything with determination. My God, voters, it is you who can support or reject something. I think it is actually time to give these grand old gentlemen, whether they are candidates at EU level or here, once again the democratic response to this obvious misbehavior. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: (delighted) Exactly! Choose Claudia Gamon!]] A Member of this House is not under the protection of immunity - - - I am sorry to have taken the expression of great old gentlemen from NEOS as a quote. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Choose Claudia Gamon!]] [[Abg. Miel-Reisinger:... Claudia Gamon, right?]] Right, just as Mrs Gamon said very true about the grand old men who are candidates here. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The Vilimsky Included!]] - He's not so old yet. That doesn't fit under, no. But now don't turn away from what happened here! Here it is deliberately tried, in connection with a legal process – you can now evaluate this legal process as whatever, the fact is that nothing prohibited has happened – to destroy a private person quite clearly in their existence. This is unheard-of, and it cannot actually break in here. What you are doing here – that you should have made a donation to someone who has been in contact with a mass murder before he has taken up an activity here, now due to a certain date, in a direct connection with a mass murder – is such a despicable! I am ashamed of you, Mr Pilz! I'm ashamed of you! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's what your mind is, that's what makes you: You don't want anything but your social utopia here in this country to take place – but that has nothing more to do with democracy. You want a surveillance state, you don't want anything but family disability, family pangs. This is what you are asking for with regard to everything that you do not fit in with party politics and democracy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to have it used, too, because – even if you come out with your laughter now – you are not worth it. [[Abg. Pilz ignited towards the Bureau]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20546	There's still a word message. But before that, there is an actual correction, namely by Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20587	Mr Rosenkranz claimed that I and my family friends would be in favour of family pangs and surveillance states. [[Call to the FPÖ: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Right!]] A few years ago, together with Mr Rosenkranz, I brought a third complaint against the surveillance state. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not an actual correction!]] We are still reliable against the surveillance state. Members of the rosary, who today is a government representative for intrusion, surveillance, federal trojans, noise attack and much more. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not an actual correction!]] I'm actually correcting: Not I, but honourable Members are ashamed.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20695	There's still a word for me now. I call Mr Alois Stöger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20717	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! In fact, I did not intend to say anything about the statements made by Mr Rosenkranz, but it does not fail. The very exciting policy is the following: It is not a private person, it is about the Federal Chancellor and it is about Mr Vice-Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor has clearly said that there must be a clear demarcation to the identities. He said that in this Federal Government, and Mr Vice-Chancellor confirmed this. Now we insist that these two statements made against the Republic are not respected by their own ministers and that they simply do not implement what has been said. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Why?]] This is a political scandal, and you have to mind. Stop with the identities, then you will be taken seriously as a government. [[Abg. Rosary: Right! Right!]] But if you don't change this, you have a problem, and then, in particular, the Lord Chancellor, who has appointed you to the government, has the responsibility for having these detours. Actually, I wanted to say something else, actually I wanted to thank Mrs Belakovich because she gave me the opportunity to show me what social democracy and I, too, as a social minister, have done in recent times; [[Abg. Fairy, fairy-tale!]] Thank you for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have shown this – I have found it very exciting – that you have shown what social democracy has done from 2008 until now, poverty has fallen. [[Abg. Höbart: Nothing at all!]] [[Abg. Höbart:... Special class cabaret!]] That's what we did. And we have not only done this here in Austria, but we have managed to do so through social-democratic people in the European Council and in the European Parliament that youth unemployment has fallen from 23 percent to 17 percent. Do you know what the most beautiful thing is? – The most beautiful thing is – and I would like to say this to the Austrians: We did this through a youth employment strategy, Rudi Hundstorfer was, and we carried it to Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How was that in Austria? – When we issue the Youth Education Act, thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, you said it was an important measure. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein.]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, when we decided to do so in Parliament, everyone voted, just not the FPÖ. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] Only the FPÖ not, back then, 2016 – 2017! [[Abg. Belakovich: What?]] [[Abg. Höbart: 16, 17?]] That was the situation: You didn't agree to the Youth Training Act. I have one more question to Mrs Minister, Minister: [[Abg. Höbart: He almost forgot!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ]] How is the tax reform going? – You say that there are 900 million euros less health insurance contributions. [[Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein: Yes!]] 900 million euros. I have read the laws of all who come this way, and a review. [[Abg. Belakovich: Reading alone is too little! He didn't understand!]] I don't find a contribution anywhere in there, that's from the budget. Where did this come from? – I guess: Dear Austrians, you pay less social security – that's right, the government says in tax reform – but that's going to reduce the benefits, if you're sick. It's all creeping. This will not be noticed at first, for you are still healthy. The day you get sick, there's no longer any performance. Or: You want to go to the spa, but you can no longer get the cure approved or only in three months or in six months or in two years. That's all right. It's creeping. Sometime the Kurheim is so old, because you no longer have money to expand it, because you now produce 900 million euros; you can see that this is a big, big danger. By the way – one still on tax reform –: Workers pay 80 percent of the total tax burden in Austria and – unfortunately, unfortunately – they only get 60 percent of the tax reduction. This means that 20 percent of the tax burden will be paid to others, probably to those who have paid contributions with a Kest reduction for Mr. Kurz; they will get it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We have demonstrated that 43 percent of the total tax relief is granted to those companies that have more than 10 million euros in profits. If social policy is, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20928	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on the 'National Action Plan on the control of child poverty in Austria'. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be adopted. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[18:14:53]] Short debate: Automatic pension split with opt-out
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20964	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Women, Families and Youth Dr.in Bogner-Strauß with the order number 3073/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes. The founder, Mr Magistrate. Gerald Loacker, has 10 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e20997	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This question – not in reply – is about the splitting of pensions. This has been a major concern for us since our foundation. Since the Federal Minister has made several public statements on this matter, I wanted to know from her what she is doing. She has, for example, the magazine “Die Wienerin”, date of publication 28. March 2018, said she was concerned with raising awareness of the pension division. Quote: “Of course, the budget is very small and we all would like to have more, but I think it is positive that no savings have been made in this place. I would, however, like to address issues with awareness-raising, such as the splitting of pensions or part-time employment." ==References== August 2018 in the “Kurier” reads: “We must do everything we can to prevent women’s poverty. The first step must be to better inform about the pension split. Further steps can already be discussed.” In my question, therefore, I ask what measures the Ministry has taken to increase the number of cases in the division of pensions. “What was the cost of these measures?” – The answer is: “Both on the website of the Federal Chancellery (section for Families and Youth [...]) as well as in the brochure Family Compass, the possibility of pension division has been mentioned for several years. No special costs have been incurred.” So there's a budget, that's very small, but there's no cost. That's where you wonder where the budget is going. I would also like to ask you: ‘Why are the successes of these measures so weak that not even 1% of those concerned benefit from the pension split?’ And: “What are the objectives of this” – Ministry – “in terms of the number of cases in the division of pensions?” – And now comes the answer that has been given to all other questions: “I am asking for understanding that these questions under the provisions of the Federal Ministry Act [...]” – bla, bla, bla – “are not subject to my execution [...].” Yeah, that's exciting, isn't it? This does not concern the execution of Mrs. Federal Minister, but she gives interviews, she explains to the Financial Journalists Forum, which she does all she can to advise experts that she is in conversation with such experts. Most experts want a fee for their expertise, which is also justified in my opinion, but as a Member of Parliament you would like to know how much a ministry for such honours spends, but this is not in your execution and therefore you do not answer me. You said to the “standard”: “We are in conversation with experts. It says: The voluntary pension split has been in place for ten years, but is hardly used; last year, there were only 412 applications.” The question which experts you are talking to is: This is not the subject of your execution. So the answer to the question needs to be read: You don't do anything, because if you did something, you'd have answered my questions. If that is true, however, all the interviews you give – in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal”, at the Forum for Financial Journalists, in the “Standard” and in the “Kurier” – did not, at all, correspond to the truth that you are just yelling loud and doing nothing I do not want to put to you. I have the feeling, rather, that we do not have to answer a bothersome request from a Member of Parliament, and that we want a little bit of a reply from Members and Parliament to a question that has nothing to do with it. Now on the real topic: Why do we need a pension split? Why is it important that we introduce an automatic pension split? – Women get the children, women still earn less than men. Women who have children also deserve significantly less than women who do not have children, that is the essential difference. Women work when they have children, much more often part-time. You have to imagine that in Austria 47 percent of women work part-time – almost half! There must be no wonder that there are lower pension rights for women in the back. It would therefore be important to compensate for this: If women take on more family care, this should be quiet in the family’s decision as to how family work is divided. However, the pension insurance contributions of the two partners should also be divided into both, so that both also have the same age insurance. That's fair. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] With this high part-time ratio, which we have in Austria, we are in second place in the EU comparison. In other countries, women may also work part-time, but they work at a higher hourly scale, therefore deserve more and also have better age insurance, namely self-employed age insurance. That's what it's all about. Very many relationships do not last until death separates them, but there other circumstances separate the relationship. In such cases, too, where the relationship is not as happy as we all wish, both partners should have an independent pension, from which they can live. This would necessarily be facilitated by an automatic pension split. What other measures could be taken? – We all know if there is good care for children, then women also have the opportunity to go to work for more hours. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Especially in rural areas, it often fails that there is no good means of care. The smaller the village where they are at home, the more difficult it becomes to find a reasonable care facility. The more ÖVP-regulated their federal state is, the more difficult it becomes to find a suitable care facility. [[Heinisch-Hosek and Noll were in favour of the NEOS.]] What would be important if the pension division was reformed, which we very much hope for: At the moment, one of the two partners is not allowed to work at all. For example, if one works full time and the other part-time, then the pension split does not work today. This is, of course, problematic because this compensation, which both partners may want, is not approved by the law at all. You can only apply for the pension division afterwards. So you cannot say that my child has come into the world, now I would like to have a pension split for the next seven years, but you must always apply for that after the social security years have expired. Try to get a reasonable information at the pension insurance institution! For a short time, for two years only – for ten years there has been the splitting – but for two years only the form at the pension insurance institution is on the homepage. For many years only the SVA had the form online. At the PVA you had to sneak by personally to ask for it, because you just sabotaged it so passively there. They didn't want it. The president of the main association Alexander Biach said at the event, where the woman was also present, that social security efforts were made to make the pension division more known. If Austrian social security schemes make intensive efforts, will a pension insurance institution with six million insured persons achieve that 1,000 couples make a pension split in ten years?- Oh, my God! These are intensive efforts in the Austrian social security scheme?- Oh, my God! So there's probably still a lot to do. Mrs. Minister! Now I hope, I really hope we have the same honest concern and that you just wanted to keep me a little bit with the answer to the question, I hope you really mean and do what you say in the newspapers. But if you mean and do that, then something else would have to be in here. Then you would have to stand by which experts you are working with, whether they get a fee or not, and how you agree with the Minister for Social Affairs. That would have to be in it, because it is within the scope of your execution. If you say, I didn't do anything anyway, then I wonder why you're giving such newspaper interviews. I'm excited about your answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21101	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Juliane Bogner-Strauß spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21122	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Dear spectators at home! They have already mentioned that there are many parents, but it is very often the mothers. They have the challenge that they often take over child rearing in Austria. They have said that these are mainly the non-existent childcare places. I think we have already exchanged about this, there is now a study by Princeton University and ETH Zurich, which clearly shows that women in Austria have 51 percent less wages after the birth of the first child – and that at ten years. I don't know how exactly you have read this study – I have read it very carefully. As a scientist, I like to do this; high affinity, I admit. The study has shown that this is because in Austria women work very often and long part-time. You have already said that 75 percent of women with children under 15 often work very few hours in part-time. Part-time can be a good life phase concept, but this study has not found causality between childcare places and part-time work. There wasn't even a city-land gap found. This was also screened by scientists in Austria and presented as well. We have ourselves done a cost-benefit analysis of childcare places, which has shown the same thing; but one also likes to have an external study, a second study by experts. Nevertheless, we have said that we invest in childcare places, we do more. And above all, we are expanding the opening hours – these must be more flexible – because of course I see this as well: I was very happy when I was a mother that I always had all day care for my children so that I could return to work quickly. But it's definitely a subject: Women have much less pension. The wage shear is more than 20 percent in Austria. 40 per cent of the pension shear – I like to repeat it – is quite a lot: because of child care, care tasks, part-time, long part-time and – what you have already mentioned – new family forms and, above all, new life realities. I grew up at a time when the divorce and separation rate in Austria was still very low when it was assumed that the family was preserved. We don't have that anymore. We live in new life realities. The divorce rate is over 40 percent. The separations take place on average ten years after the wedding. I assume that the divorce rate of non-married couples is the same. I made myself quite clear – and this was actually from the beginning – for an automatic pension split. Now, if you ask me which experts I am talking to, I say, these are loud experts who do not demand a fee. We have talked to people who have shown us the figures we have calculated. I have talked to people from the scientific field who have also advised me without fees. And I have been talking to colleagues in other European countries who have already introduced the pension division. For example, I was recently in Liechtenstein, where I was exchanged with colleagues Pedrazzini, and I was able to bring his experiences home. Those who have introduced this have clearly seen that it provides more fairness, it provides more financial balance for those parents who do the greatest care work, who do most of the unpaid work at home. I would like to say – and this is very important to me – that the educational work that takes place at home is indeed a valuable work. I therefore welcome the fact that there is more fairness and a financial balance in this respect. We have had very constructive discussions here at government level for weeks. Colleague Hartinger-Klein is no longer here now, but I have also been with her more often the topic of automatic pension splitting, for which I am just speaking. You mentioned the voluntary pension division we have now received since 2005. [[towards Abg. Loacker]] In the first twelve years, just 900 couples decided to do so. Last year we talked a lot about pension splitting, you did it, I did it, also about automatic pension splitting, because it would make things easier. After all, this has led to 450 people applying for the pension split last year, half as many as in the 12 years before. We have information campaigns. Social security will also carry out a mandatory information campaign. We have already heard about this in the government programme. Of course, we also create awareness when we talk about it today. I believe that creating awareness is a first step, which has also been shown by last year's requests. We have long included information on voluntary pension splitting on the website of the Federal Chancellery and in the brochure of the Family Guide. This family guide has previously called family compass, and even there were already some information on pension splitting included. My claim and my goal must be to reduce old age poverty. We have already talked about the fight against poverty today. We need more appreciation and fairness for the care and care work done at home. Sunday was Mother's Day. Of course, I am always happy when my children come with poems and nice gifts. We celebrate this once a year, but there are still 364 days to which it is still valued. Today – and I do not want to forget – we have the International Family Day. Austria is a family country, the family is really a foundation of society. I believe that the more we do that we appreciate family work – the automatic pension sharing is for me – the more we value the families too. Of course, it takes a lot of measures here, a whole package, but a suitable measure for me is the automatic splitting of pensions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21194	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Elisabeth Pfurtscheller is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21219	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Loacker and I share a favorite theme, which is the splitting of pensions. - He smiles. Both of us are very happy to talk about it, but Mr Loacker has been so many times lately that I feel a little bit that he no longer has any other issues to deal with. Maybe you could think about other things too. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: For example, about a pension reform!]] Nevertheless, I am of course very pleased that I owe it to him that I now have the opportunity to speak, especially because of that – the Minister mentioned it earlier – because we are celebrating the International Family Day today. This gives me the opportunity to say a few more words about it. This day was introduced by the UN in the 1990s to confirm the importance of the family and the awareness for family promotion. For me personally, family begins where two people or more look at each other, take care of each other and take responsibility for each other. I would therefore like to make the most of the family concept as far as possible, because all forms of family are important and should receive our recognition today. Family has now become a colorful term for the diversity of life, and that is also good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The current debate on compulsory pension division really fits perfectly with the day of the family today. In this debate, it is about family work, who is doing it, and the best way to ensure that it is this person who is doing family work. In most cases this is the woman. We have already heard that the pension division allows balances to be transferred from one pension account to another, so in most cases from the man to the woman or – better said – from the father to the mother. But of course it also works in the other direction. In this way, the main employment partner recognises the educational and family work of the partner who has no or only a low income. This will make a significant contribution to preventing poverty in old age. We ÖVP women have long called for the introduction of compulsory pension division with an opt-out option and are pleased that we are now in the finish line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are convinced that this measure will make a great contribution to reducing pension shears between women and men, the so-called Gender Pension Gap, although we are aware that this is not alone the only solution. Of course, there are many more measures to be taken, for example, the 24 months of leave in respect of the advances in the collective agreement. We have already tried to get this into the way, and the social partners are on the right track. As our Mrs Minister has already explained, however, there is already a voluntary pension split. I would like to use my remaining speaking time to call on you, dear spectators and spectators, to use this voluntary pension split. On the website of the Pensionsversicherungsanstalt at www.pensionsversicherung.at you can find out how the voluntary pension split works and for whom it is required. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] You will also find a very good description on the page of the Social Ministry and the Social Insurance Institute. So if you have at least one child under the age of ten, you can use this offer immediately. It's not complicated. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: This is totally complicated!]] - No, it's not complicated, Mrs. Colleague. The only challenge is: You have to apply for it. In the future, we will then have a commitment. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Have you ever done it before?]] – I didn’t do it for myself because I’m already too old to see, but I filled it up for someone else. [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Look! I do!]] – Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, I really can't understand now if you say it's too complicated. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's not easy!]] – I don't think so! Everyone for whom it's too complicated to be able to report to me. My e-mail address is on the website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21340	The next item is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21369	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I haven't tried it yet, I have to look at it. Nevertheless, I find it remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, that of 16 questions asked 15 are simply not answered at all, and such a lala is answered. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have said now that you have already talked to experts that they have not required money for you to actually be for the automatic pension split. I wonder a little why no one – but perhaps still reported – comes out of the Freedom Party and talks about splitting. I believe that FPÖ is against automatic pension division. There she has something in common with us, the Social Democracy, for we too are speaking against automatic splitting. I believe that on the International Family Day 2019 the sharing of care and care work in the family should long be on the agenda, that at least the papal month, the paternal care should be a little more widespread than it actually is. This federal government does nothing to change this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also very easy to see that nothing happens. Mrs Bundesminister, you have referred to the flexibility of the opening hours of childcare facilities. Where is it? Where is the Federal Framework Act so that they have longer open and less closing days per year? What are your efforts in this regard? – She too has already turned to playing on the phone instead of listening to me, paying attention to me. [[Federal Minister Bogner-Strauß: I can do both at the same time!]] – She can do both at the same time: wonderful! They have said that there is so much more money for him in the framework of child care. There is just as much money as in the years before. It took only about a year for you to get through in the Federal Government that there is again the same amount of money for the expansion of childcare – that is, no more cents. The family bonus was mentioned on and off today. What about women who live alone with their children and don't deserve enough? – They have nothing of it, they get for their children at best alms of 250 euros a year. This is less than 1 euro per day. [[Abg. Shrew: But more than with you!]] Speaking of single-parents – I also ask NEOS: What if someone splits, but fathers aren't willing to recognize fatherhood and fight it, or if women don't want to call the father? [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: opt-out!]] Who are they supposed to split with? I don't know, with myself? We must therefore also pay attention to these groups, which may be even more affected and threatened by poverty. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Sure!]] On the family day, too, it is known that women living alone with their children are families, and that it is not possible for fathers to be taken on duty here too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said several times today, what we have been saying for years, namely that differences in income and pension differences are so great. We have passed a law on income reports. The next step would be overdue. What about a wage transparency law? Why is no one in this federal government, in the government parties, trying to at least know in the company at last what someone deserves, who receives the bonus payments, who and at what amount the overtime is being paid, and when unfairly paid – usually women – that at last there is the possibility to do something about it? I have nothing against extending the existing voluntary pension split. Yes, women should be able to earn part-time employment. We can also extend the existing voluntary pension split. I think that would be a first important step. However, there are at least five to ten ways to safeguard women from poverty, how income shears could be made smaller, how the issue of compatibility could at last be taken more seriously, and how, in the case of minimum security, the poverty of single women with children, perhaps also men with their children, can be prevented. We are also of the opinion, as Mrs Pfurtscheller has just said, that there should be an opportunity to count parental carnations on the whole, but not in collective agreements, where it has actually happened, but at last by law, so that women can also have a good opportunity to demand it. The colleagues Worm and Wöginger are not here now, but if I have heard correctly today, both have suggested that tomorrow almost EUR 1 200 minimum pension net for all women with 40 insurance or work years – that was not quite clear – would be announced. Mr Wurm has said that not only civil service and civil service, but also child rearing times are counted. If that were to happen, a great step would be taken to combat poverty of old, I alone lack faith. Maybe tomorrow we'll find out.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21471	Next item is the report by Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21495	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps at the beginning of the debate: It is striking that the Freedom Party does not even mention equality between men and women in family policy. You have to mention that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Because it’s natural for us!]] However, the issue is too important to deal with FPÖ exclusively now. I'd like to start a little further. Surprisingly, Mrs. Pfurtscheller described very striking family in such a way that she arises where people find each other in love and take responsibility for each other. [[Abg. Lindner: For the first time!]] – Yes, I heard it for the first time today from the ÖVP, but I think you can get better too. I would, however, like to address this very point, namely family. When young people find themselves together – mostly male and female, but of course this is also true in all other forms of family – these people then find out in the question of family start-up: We're not the same, something is changing, one has more chances than the other. It is about this form of the state framework in which a family is founded. This is, for example, the non-functioning pension division, the childcare allowance, which is much more rarely used by men than by women. This is the case with still missing childcare places, where I have also heard that in kindergartens for children under three years old, only 28 percent of the parents get a place in Vienna if they are looking for it. All of this leads exactly in this family, in these two young people, to a person being disadvantaged, not by nature – it is not a biological law that the woman is disadvantaged towards the man – but by state. It is the laws that have been passed here and have not been reformed to this day, which lead to this inequality. My colleague, Gerald Loacker, has previously done very well how this poverty comes about. It is clear to me, Mrs Minister, that you, as a family minister, have paid far too little attention to this problem in the last one and a half years. When I look at what you presented after a year, which was the focus of your resort for the families in Austria, You mentioned three points. The first was the indexation of the family allowance. Bravo – there really no family in Austria won anything. The second was the Family Bonus Plus. We criticized him. In fact, he also brought a discharge, but this was not a family policy measure at this time. It was a discharge that all people in our country would have granted, and you simply preferred it for a group. The third point is responsibility in the network and prevention of violence. Apart from indexing the family allowance, I would not be apologising that the points played a role, but that is far too little for one and a half years of activity. Now I remember the picture I just described. We talk about people who find themselves together in love, take responsibility, and then suddenly realize that they no longer have the same opportunities as soon as they put a child into the world – and that in the 21st century. ==References== Austria has a cemented family image, not in society, but in politics. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes!]] People are very willing to take on more responsibility, but we must finally remove the obstacles that the ÖVP and, by the way, the SPÖ have put people in the way of decades. A final word to you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek: It is significant that SPÖ is more conservative in this matter than the ÖVP. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! Women must be able to work!]] They go here and say that I don't want to reform individual laws that they no longer mean an obstacle to a family, but I wait for absolute equality between man and woman, because then everything is good and then I don't need any more reforms. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, no, no! Many intermediate steps!]] The pension division is a significant step – not in all cases, we leave the disputes outside, as it takes wise rules. At present, however, they deny this opportunity to people who ask themselves the question and want a modern, common life. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They can't do it!]] – No, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, even if you are calling: They can do it! That is exactly what my colleague Gerald Loacker said before. The law, as it now exists, allows people to do that. Let's go forward together. Think of these mostly young people when they want to start a family and suddenly find that they are no longer equal when they do. ==References== ==References====External links== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21614	The next item is Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21635	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The debate on the poverty of women and the effects of child rearing and care periods on the pension have already led to the urgent question today. I am glad that an open ear is given here at all to be able to work in this direction. I have already argued in some of the last discussions that we find a situation in which we specifically support women – depending on the duration of their child rearing, depending on the size of the breaks between the individual children. In other words, a woman who has children at greater intervals and is therefore longer at home, possibly working part-time between them, gets higher support from the state as far as the pension bill is concerned, than a woman who has children at shorter intervals and can perhaps return to the full-time profession earlier on. This woman is disadvantaged because, accordingly, she does not receive an equivalent – four years are always in discussion – or sufficient credit for the pension for her children. There is an injustice, as children are considered unevenly for the pension, which in turn leads, Mrs Minister, to the fact that there is an unevenly high pension bill that there is an unevenly high rating for the pension, depending on the size of the distances between the children. This is an injustice and this injustice should be halted by politics, as we can also help to combat the poverty of women in old age. The pension split may be a next step, but on this point I have already said in the last plenary session that I think it is worth more support if we count the child's education time better for the pension as a state more support. And if this does not occur, if this Federal Government does not decide to support child rearing and family life more, then the pension division must be a next step. In this respect, I am also right for my predecessor, Mr Pfurtscheller. But I would also like to say something about Mr Loacker's parliamentary question. The question concerning pension division is exemplary of how the current Federal Government is dealing with parliamentary questions. I have had to experience on several occasions, either to be shortened, to be concealed, to be denied, to reject responsibility or to be moved to another ministry. If this is not the case and you may be responsible, then there will simply be no answer. That was the case in this case, and that was the case in recent days with regard to my parliamentary request to the crisis caretakers to the Minister of Family. The questions are not answered in any way, they are simply left as they are. And whether a parliamentarian, a parliamentarian on the basis of a citizen's request creates a parliamentary request and expects or does not expect an answer, that seems to be completely no matter. Now I ask the question: What are we gonna do? There are no answers to questions. Now it is up to us to make a follow-up request, which will then bring with it two months later, which will be exploited until the last day, and then we may be facing the same situation again, as I had already, that I have received the answer – a very special scepticism – that the current The question would be dealt with intensively and could only be answered after final vote. All of this is available every day, you are really ad absurd to this instrument of parliamentary investigation, the parliamentary question, the right of parliamentary interference. My colleague Wolfgang Zinggl has already handed over a huge package of parliamentary questions to Presidents of the National Council Sobotka, with the request to pay close attention to and demand that there be proper answers and that the parliamentarians in this House be taken seriously. It could now be assumed that Mr President-in-Office Sobotka put his hair up and put the anger red in the glasses; but that was not so, for nothing has happened to this day. That is why I would like to ask you once again, Madam President, as the highest representative of this House, to work for it, also on your behalf, on behalf of Mr Sobotka, you talk to the government and finally put these conditions down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21687	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Bogner-Strauß has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21708	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! I would just like to comment on two points. Once again, on the parliamentary questions that we are really trying to answer according to the best of knowledge and conscience – how it is our duty and how it is your right –: I would also like to point out that we sometimes receive the same request several times within two months – I could now show a large number of questions – and I wonder if you are seeking to spend our time again and again with the same requests. There are always the same questions. [[Abg. Pillow: That's a naughtiness!]] – Well, I can show you some examples where we repeatedly point out that this has already been answered in previous parliamentary questions. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Holtinger-Vogtenhuber, Mr Zinggl and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] But that's not the subject today. In our short debate we were dealing with the division of pensions, and I would like to make it clear to you that: Mr Loacker, you said that the voluntary pension division can only be used if a person does not work. And Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you used this as an argument against the splitting of pensions to say that we do not want one of the caregivers or a parent to stay at home. That's not true at all, it's definitely so that both parents can do a job and then simply transfer the credit to the person who has less employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – Of course, look at the folder and flyer and the information of the pension insurance institution. It's not a matter at all, both parents can make a purchase. That is what I wanted to say now to clarify, because again and again, and even in the committees, the claim is made, it is only if a person does not work. And that's not how it is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21755	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:56:07]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21778	I take the negotiations on the 4th. The agenda item, the National Education Report, is again on the agenda. Before calling for the urgent question, Mr Nico Marchettiam spoke. He continues his speech now. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21805	I know the stress sheet was almost unbearable. It is well known that anticipation is the most beautiful joy. I ended up with that --
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21824	I'm sorry, I wanted to stop you for one and a half minutes. That didn't work right away. [[Abg. Marchetti: I think the presidents have sworn against me!]] [[general hustle and bustle]] You now have one and a half minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21856	Thank you. I concluded by asking politicians not only the right questions, but also the right answers. Just the part of the answer I've been guilty of. I wanted to do this on the basis of day-to-day care, which is one of the topics where there is a need for recovery in the National Education Report. The Federal Minister has now presented a model which, I believe, is very essential because it involves a system change. These initial funding has obviously not worked because they have not been picked up by the municipalities either. This is now changing, it is becoming much more attractive for the communities to invest also with the support of the federal government. I think that is exactly one of these concrete answers that we as politicians must give to the questions raised in this report on education. In this sense, thank you very much for this initiative. The other points that are still open, I have mentioned, especially digitization and political education, and I am pleased that we will come to the answers as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21890	Next speaker: Mrs Dr.in Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21911	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at the audience gallery and in front of the TV screens! Yes, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss the National Education Report here today, because it is really a very, very comprehensive and good understanding of Austrian education. He includes facts, figures, data, empirical surveys, scientific contributions and above all also gives us objective recommendations for action for our political action. That is why it was very important to us from the Social Democracy that we should not end up and condemn this educational report in the Committee, as is actually planned, but rather put this report to the plenary and to be able to talk about it. This is also a sign of appreciation for the scientists, namely the very, very many who have worked on this report, because it is a 900-page report that is really worth reading in it and especially in it. It's a data and knowledge treasure, I'd even mean. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This report, ladies and gentlemen, was for me and is for me in charge of action, because it is about evidence-based education policy, which we should also shape. And it is the commandment of the hour to work with facts as well. The report lays down a broad focus and once again addresses the importance of the educational inheritance in Austria. It is still, in fact, dependent on the educational background of parents, what the educational careers of young people in this country look like. But he also says very clearly where the trip should go, what to do. My previous speaker took it a short time: Urgent expansion of day-to-day schools is a command of the hour, but also new forms of teaching and learning that focus on and develop the talents of our young people, up to the demand for the best educators for those classes and schools in which special challenges arise, up to the topic of digitalization; this was also a short topic today. So this is a potpourri of approaches for our political activities. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to focus on modern teaching methods and modern forms of teaching and learning due to the short period of speaking time. Pure learning, pure frontal education qualified and does not adequately equip our children and young people for the challenges we face as a society, but also in the working worlds. It's too far. It simply needs much more skills and skills, such as self-efficiency, team ability, communication ability, digitalization, creativity and curiosity, anyway, in order to qualify and equip these young people. Learning in particular is the duty of the hour, and the report shows models in this regard: self-controlled learning, cooperative learning, project work, theme-specific work, differentiated tasks at different levels within the class. These are successful models that already exist, which it must be extended. Digitalization is a wonderful tool to support this in-house differentiation and these new teaching and learning methods in particular. Whatever this report says: He sees heterogeneity in the classroom as an opportunity. The development of competence is more targeted in a heterogeneous class, based on the measurement of competence in different groups of students. Lower-performance students would achieve better learning outcomes, more powerful students benefit especially in social development. Modern pedagogy makes this possible wonderfully. This in-house differentiation is an essential cornerstone of our secondary schools and is to be borne by them. Unfortunately, these pedagogical objectives of internal differentiation, the new forms of teaching and learning, are being reduced by the actions set by this government, but are becoming increasingly impossible. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] What am I talking about? – Re-introduction of service groups in the New Middle Schools, a sluggish abolition of the team teaching. The misinterpretation of the co-utilised German teachers – on this topic we still come to speak today – will make the topic team teaching increasingly unattractive and will continue to reduce. This is very important, however, so that these differentiated forms of teaching and learning can succeed. This is a very, very unfortunate step back, which is very difficult to take. We must support our students, promote their potentials, bring their talents to bloom. We need a common effort in the right direction. It is about equal opportunities and it is also about autonomous Design at the school sites because the educators know very well where they have to go. I would ask you, Minister of Education, to support the transfer of these competences to schools, to support the educators in their actions, because they know what they are doing. It takes your commitment and your trust in the educators, into an autonomous school, in order to really bring new teaching and learning methods to life.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e21992	Mr Hauser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22014	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, in my view, this National Education Report is much more concrete than the previous speaker has now noted. First of all, I would like to point out a few facts before addressing the real problems of Austrian education, which are always excluded by SPÖ. We discussed violence at school intensively in the Committee. The current case at the HTL Ottakring was of course an example of how it should not work in schools. We know from the media and reporting the terrible picture when students deal with a teacher when violence in school is actually taking place and violence is taking place effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, we as the Freedom Party have for years referred to this problem. We have pointed out that we have effective problems that are expressed on a number of points. These relate not only to the violence we perceive and warned about, but also to the increasing parallel societies in schools; we have repeatedly warned of them. We have pointed out that we notice the lack of German knowledge among children who are trained, and say we require German before entering school. I can only be taught if I understand the language of teaching. That is why we have introduced the German funding classes – against the voice of the SPÖ and the left side here in Parliament – which was an important educational step that is logical in itself and which everyone understands. How can I be taught in schools if I don't understand and am not understood? And now even further against these German funding classes is polemized. We have wished for German to be spoken in the breaks. This initiative was still rejected by SPÖ in the old legislative period, among other things. German is to be spoken at the Pausenhof, which has been rejected. There can be no communication if you don't understand each other. We have pointed out the conflict of values in schools, the role of Islam in the classroom. And do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what happened? We have been here for years in the High House as a nurse, as people who do not understand anything about the daily problems of the school, although the results – for example Pisa – have become worse and worse. As you know, I am also an economic educator and have been enthusiastic about this profession. It is a beautiful profession, but it is also a profession that is incredibly demanding and now also leads to really extreme situations. Only recently have we been able to read in the media that every eighth teacher is at risk of burn-out because it is too little supported and too little accompanied. So we've got in. Our schools are extremely many problems, and this has been denied by the left, by the SPÖ, for decades. We were presented as a negotiator, and now we have a situation – as it is – that is quite escalated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there are people, including you, out of the socialist union, who have also referred to these problems. I may refer to Mrs Susanne Wiesinger’s book “Cultural Fight in the Classroom”. You know what shocked me? I was shocked that for years Mrs Susanne Wiesinger and her colleagues have warned me internally of these conditions, the progressive conflict of values, the role of Islam in the classroom, this problem has been addressed internally, but this problem has always been dealt with by you under the carpet. That's the fatale. This is how you have done school policy over the years: Put your head in the sand, on and through, and simply deny problems that exist in the mass. I can read you a quote from Mrs Susanne Wiesinger's book. She's writing about how she's done. Susanne Wiesinger has met the nerve of time with this book. I quote: “But Susanne Wiesinger met the nerve of time with her honest words. The criticism from the red teachers' union and the City School Council was accordingly fierce. She had been working closely with her colleagues for many years and regularly expressed her thoughts in meetings and discussions. The fact that this was ignored or impoverished there ultimately gave the result for the step into the public. The price she pays for this step is high.” – It happened to us immediately! “Many of her acquaintances, mostly bourgeois left, do not understand why she expresses this criticism. Left circles accuse you of being right and Islamophob. They are avoided and do not even want to discuss the various points of view again. She'd be too polarized. Her former trade union colleagues stopped contact with her. If it comes to a conversation, then only to tell her that she should not continue to express herself on trade union issues or Islam in school. You may finally be silent.” (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Susanne Wiesinger has put this to the point now, and I promise you, we will not be quiet. We will continue to pursue this very thing, and we will see that this problem of the emerging parallel society and all the other problems I have now mentioned will not be put under the table in the future and that we will work together with our esteemed minister on what you have done to the Austrian school system for decades.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22075	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22096	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear visitors to the gallery! I would like to start by thanking the scientists who have prepared this educational report because, and this has already been mentioned, it is an important evidence of where we stand in education policy. It is sad that we have been seeing and knowing the problems that exist for years and not much change at the end of the day. We see very clearly in this educational report that Austria is on the spot, that there is not much development and that the results are still not satisfactory. especially when we find that the money simply does not come to the pupils and also not to the teacher staff. I have taken out three points that I would like to make briefly. The first topic – and this fits very well with the previous speaker’s speech – is that of the free all-day school for those who need it, so that is especially about the focus schools. The educational report clearly shows that there is a problem and that it does not matter. Full-day offers are currently accepted especially in agglomerations, mainly in Vienna, and mostly by higher educated parents, who are also better off on a job basis. What does that lead to? – This leads exactly to this division of society, which was addressed earlier, and it is all the more dramatic when we see that the Federal Government is diluting the funds for this area over the next few years and is not making available for more full-day offers, especially at focal schools. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] A second important issue, which is also addressed clearly and is always raised by experts, is the topic of equal opportunities. The government is only aware of this with more selection, with more in-storage sticks of individuals, and not with what is also mentioned in the report: the need to finally distribute the funds in order to really get the money where it is needed. I said at the outset, we must bring the money where the students and the teachers need it, and we must not go over everything with the casting pot. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The third point is digitization – it has already been addressed by Nico Marchetti and by colleague Hammerschmid –: The government has been talking about the Master Plan digitization for months, if not even for years. – Yes, the big digitalization concept is coming. What is quite clear in this report? – This report clearly states that we did not introduce media competence as a cross-sectional matter into the education of educators, but that would be essential because of the fact that we need well-trained educators who also present it with motivation to prepare the next generation for it and to solve the problems that arise in the field of education and, in particular, in the field of digital skills. Another area that has been tailor-made is the topic of networks – Nico Marchetti has also addressed it –: We have quite a good standing on the federal level. 73 percent of the federal schools were equipped with the Internet on site in 2016. But when we look in the kindergartens, it looks very, very gloomy. I think that the worst thing is to cut out kindergartens in particular, because we must start with the youngest ones to take action and get started early, to get in the way early. That is exactly what is currently missing in this Federal Government – three points that are essential, and there are no steps forward in all.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22170	Mrs Cox. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22191	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! A hello also to the people in front of the screens! I quote a teacher: “As a teacher, you are the depth of the nation. You don't know how to react, you're lost. I have taught – or better dressed – in a public school for 15 years, playing the dompteur. There were physical attacks on the teachers, verbal abuse of the teachers anyway, daily. The director and the inspector never supported me, some colleagues were afraid to go to school every day.” – A quote, an experience report from a teacher who became a victim of Mobbing. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mobbing and violence are unfortunately everyday in Austrian schools, for students and for teachers. We can now look away, we can watch shocking mobile videos, we can take the black sheep from the pasture, but the overall situation will not change it. In order to combat violence and bullying in schools, a holistic thinking needs to be done. The whole school has to be viewed from school management to parents. What does that look like in practice? First: Of course, you also have to put on with your parents. Parents need to be much more involved, that is, not only must they be spoken to, they must also be held responsible. Example: There were the mobile teams who did just that. - They were saved. Secondly, We need a common ethics education for all children. [[Abg. Tashner: No!]] This can be a place where common values and ways of dealing are learned where emotions and conflicts are addressed and how to deal with them. [[Abg. Tashner: No!]] Third, school autonomy: In order to find and put the appropriate measures, you also have to ask the teachers and the teachers. Very often they know best what they need. Minister Fässmann, you presented the nine-point plan against violence to schools. The question I ask myself is: How do you want to implement this without having any additional staff? – Nine points, zero reinforcement: This plan can't go on. The teacher I mentioned earlier also meant: “As a teacher, one is lost.” – It is very bad to hear from a teacher standing in a classroom in Austria. But he puts the problem to the fore: Austrian teachers often feel overburdened and left alone. Our schools, our teachers, therefore need more support staff. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The National Education Report, which we are currently discussing, demonstrates this with figures, for example in secondary schools. The report says that there is an urgent need for more administrative staff; that is, 72 percent of school leaders. 60 percent say that school psychologists are missing, 56 percent are longing for more school social workers. At the AHS it is a similar picture. That means we have numbers that show in turn: There's a need for support, and there's a need for additional staff. Let's take a look over the edge of the plate, over the national edge of the plate: In 2008, Austria was the final focus of the OECD Talis study on working conditions in schools. What does that mean? – In no other participating country, more teachers had to share a support force. In other words, more support is needed, especially more support. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister! Violence and mobbing are unfortunately everyday life in our schools. Spucking attacks, insults and beatings will remain daily if we do not finally support our teachers and now provide additional resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22249	Mrs Kuss-Bergner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22270	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Before addressing the topics of the newly published educational report, I should first of all like to point out that some of the questions that we have discussed in the committee on the report should have been raised by the predecessor rather than by the Minister of Education, because this 900-page report is a review of the last three years. The report therefore deals with the years 2015 to 2018. This means, in particular, that all the measures that our Minister of Education, who is actually an undisputed expert for me, has unfortunately not yet been examined in this report. This report is therefore the preparation of the time of Mr Hammerschmid as Minister of Education. In this, I find above all a passage on education policy, which was carried out at the time, particularly meaningful, which is to be read: “The private school system of Austrian embossing is likely to have gained something in terms of terrain.” – quote from the Education Report. Now each of you can draw his conclusions from it. For me, it means that the school system has lost public authority's reputation that confidence in this has fallen. There are two key education policy issues that the National Education Report deals with, first of all, the handling of different potentials in school: How do I teach a class association of students of different origins and with a range of skills ranging from learning weakness to high talent? This is a question that our teachers employ every day and that presents them with challenges. I can report that from my own experience. There are excitingly meaningful facts and facts – Mrs. Hammerschmid has said evidence-based – about students with non-German mother tongue and those with special educational funding needs, but – you can read that – there is no data on highly talented students, which I consider to be a symbol of the educational policy of this time. Mrs Hammerschmid has addressed this heterogeneity, she has also said that good students are primarily learning social competence. Social competence is important. But is it the only competence we should promote? Just as in the last legislative period the problems with non-German-speaking students have not been addressed, it is obvious that our highly gifted students have not been given the necessary attention. Secondly, the report deals with the cost of education. According to the Education Report, in the EU comparison, Mrs Cox, we spend above-average money on education. Of course, it's always the question: Is it enough? As with any current issue that we are discussing, this raises the question of resource allocation. Mr Minister, I think it is legitimate to raise the question: Is the money available also used properly? We will take a firm stand against misdevelopments in the field of education. With the measures that have been taken over the last one and a half years, We are on the right track again in the Austrian education system – the German funding classes, the educational package, the improvements in central matura and the expansion of all day school forms. It is our clear claim that relevant educational goals will be achieved in Austria, and we will achieve this with a differentiated school system in the public sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22322	Mrs Feichtinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22343	Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! I quote: “Especially young women choose to move to the city. [...] This means that the rural area permanently loses well-educated young women to cities. [...] A particular challenge in rural areas is the compatibility of work and family [...]. Childcare facilities shall meet the real needs of the child.’; Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! These are lines you actually need to know. You come from your rural master plan. It is very positive that the departure of young and highly qualified women has been identified and that better childcare is needed. Unfortunately, this still does not correspond to reality in the country. In the last Education Investment Act, 115 000 new places were decided for all day schools. Mrs Kuss-Bergner, after that they were reduced to 40 000, so there was no extension in this case. We are missing 75 000 of these important places in the next few years. If I now think of these women who live in the country and have to decide – they start a family, they want to stay on the land, but want to keep their jobs the same way and combine family and job – then it becomes quite difficult because the offer is missing. [[Abg. Kuss-Bergner: There are three countries in need!]] All day schools are missing. What's important is: It needs a choice. Everyone should be able to decide for themselves, but this option does not exist with us in the country at all in the form and in the quantity as in the city. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kuss-Bergner: There are! There are!]] In the final effect, only half-day work is possible for women, and full-time will no longer be feasible in the country. Dear ÖVP collegiates! I would like not only to be talked about and written about, but that you act! Just invest in all day schools! That would be a very big and positive sign for the children in our country. Violence and mobbing in schools – in recent weeks, the big topic has been in the media. The government is dealing with this. The topic is time-out classes, one talks about and sees that they may be installed. For me personally, this should be the last way out. You should intervene much earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] Children's outbreaks of violence do not come from today on to tomorrow, because the environment is a topic and many, many more things that stand behind it. School psychologists and school social workers are very, very important. In my opinion, the savings fund was set up there. Looking beyond the borders: In Sweden there is a fixed place for a school social worker for each school, but in Austria there are a total of 200 places. You can also feel that this is just too few. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to work to ensure that our teachers are supported in this form. Remarkable children and adolescents should not be taken out of classes. I don't think that's a solution. One should think in the sense of the children and see that one supports the educators, in cooperation with the school psychologists and, of course, with the school social workers. This leads to a good class climate, and in the final effect that would be the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22405	Mr Schandor. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22426	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Listeners and listeners in front of the screens and here in the High House! We have already heard a lot about the educational report. I brought him. [[keeping two volumes of the education report up to date]] This is what he looks like, a very comprehensive work, which has appeared for the fourth time, in two volumes, and which has already been published in three-year intervals – colleague Kuss-Bergner mentioned it. On the one hand, this educational report gives an overview of the performance of the Austrian school system on the basis of figures, data, facts and a whole range of indicators, on the other hand, in Volume 2 current educational topics, insights into the state of research and development options for school policy, so to speak, the basis for evidence-based education policy in Austria. If you read a little more precisely into the educational report, you will find various blocks of topics dealing with teachers and teaching in the context of social change. However, it is also about the design and further development of our education system, and it will show the management and prospects of how, for example, the education system could look like in 2040. It is therefore on the one hand a look into the past, but on the other hand also a look into the future: What are the objectives and tasks of education 2040? What are the challenges in the education system? Last week we had an interesting discussion with MEPs from the Dutch Parliament – Mr Hammerschmid and I participated –: Which educational institutions will we have or will we no longer have? Who will appear on this stage as an actor or actor? What is the relationship between educational institutions and society? What learning arrangements and learning processes look like, this educational report also addresses these issues. I would like to make a point, namely, day care. For me, it is extremely interesting that about one quarter of all students were cared for in a day care facility – about 22 percent if you subtract external funds – while at the AHS or at the lower level and the New Secondary Schools are about 18 percent – but now you see over the entire federal area. There are, of course, very clear differences, only between the federal states. For example, we have the highest quota in Vienna and the lowest in Tyrol in school afternoon care. This is also a clear mission to the Federal Government and the Federal Minister. We want to go too. To do more, more help to make this situation significantly improved in rural areas as well. I take these points as criticism points – also from the parent side of the report, for example as regards the spatial situation, but also the size of the learning groups – very seriously. I think this report is very, very valuable and I would also like to thank all those who have worked on it, especially the publishers. I see this as a very positive work and I am glad that we have this educational report today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22478	President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22499	Madam President. High house! I join my previous speakers in saying: This is a very profound report. – It is very detailed and it is also thick – 900 pages are not without. Unfortunately, in a sense he is also historical, because many series of times in this report end with 2015, 2016 and have done a lot in recent years. However, the report is full of detailed results, and the editors themselves have accentuated the detailed results. I might like to point out one thing: There is a detailed outcome on the question of which factors are important for failure to meet education standards. First language and migration backgrounds are much more important than the educational background of parents. I am therefore amazed at all those who speak of the time when there were no German promotion classes, as a successful time. All those that reflect exactly this phase would have to be not only surprised, but also negatively affected. So this is a very important result. I am also sure that the German funding classes will change something at this very important point of failure to meet the education standards. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A second finding that can perhaps be highlighted – which even the publishers have highlighted and which I have inherited as well – is the very strict gender differentiation in the school election. We have a segregation: One goes to the technical-commercial schools, says HTLs, and the other to the social-professional schools. Of course, it is easy to calculate how professional careers and income develop later on. I am sure, Mrs Hammerschmid, that you have done a lot, but you can't see it in the data yet. We all need to work on it so that this negative sex segregation ceases. There is also a good news that I would like to highlight, namely the excellent judgment for dual training. Dual training shows a clear interface to the labour market, which demonstrates the data: Anyone who makes a dual training has a job to 80 percent within the next three months, and the income expectation is excellent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is not there; I would have liked to say something to him about his demand for more digital competence in kindergartens. We need a certain balance in promoting and demanding more digital competence. I'm not quite sure if the kindergarten, where you would like to let the children grow up like social empathy, is it? Talk, play with each other and develop similarities – which is the right place for it and whether to push the tablet into the hand of the three- to six-year-old, on the other hand – if you want to do so – autistic attraction: [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] I'm just looking at my own and not at the other one. I would have liked to tell him for myself, perhaps you would direct it to him, with the reference to the fact that kindergartens are state-owned. [[towards NEOS]] So if he has this demand, please go to the nine heads of state, because there it is properly placed. The legislation on kindergartens is state-owned, and the municipalities are involved in the implementation. Mrs. Cox and Mrs. Feichtinger, you've been talking about violence and bullying. You have certainly received my proposals, these nine points which still need to be formulated. This is not a quick shot – a measure responds to a complex problem – but it is something like a balanced programme – but of course it cannot be admitted as an opposition politician – which has quite an opportunity to really tang the matter: Prevention, intensification of conflict-resilience in schools, so that conflicts do not grow at all, and, of course, acute measures. They asked for the money: Yes, money is already important, but money follows the concept and not vice versa – this is a very essential thing. You should first formulate a thing and, if you want to, also evaluate it monetaryly and then see if this is the case with the resources that are in the system. footnote: There are incredible resources in the system. The presenter of the program “In the Centre” said: I've been trying to find out, but that's a mistake, what's there. – In fact, it is not easy because there are very different functions. So once you have seen this and then you see, you need something, then you must certainly act, but first of all, please do a conceptual reflection and then follow a financial demand from me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Reword: This is a very good report. I think we need to think about how we are updating this report in the future. Much of this is probably done on the Internet at least as well as on the precious paper, especially when you think about ecological aspects. One must certainly also consider how to get some things to the point, because to look at 900 pages of what is essential is a question of patience for every reader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22587	Mrs Niss's next speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22609	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Countless years in history, the life expectancy of the belt, the exact difference between the Doric and the Ionian columns: These are the facts that I received during my school years from the teachers, then I had to copy into the book and learn to learn outside before the test. If you ask me today if I still know it, I can probably only deny it, which is not a big problem either, because most of the facts I get easily out of the Internet – there the ionic pillar is also better explained than in any schoolbook. Unfortunately, this is still often taught today. I'm convinced we can't continue like this. The world out there changes so quickly, so quickly we cannot even think of the contents of a book, let alone print it. We need to react to that. We must manage to convey to the children more and more that motivation and curiosity are necessary. The children are so curious at this age, they are so curious and they have such great interest in new things. But this is declining over time, and unfortunately the school is also to blame. That's what we need to work on. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, digital transformation requires critical thinking, creativity, cooperation and flexibility. If we employ employees in the company – this is not just the case with us – then we especially value these skills, because they are necessary to meet the challenges of the future and to develop new products and solutions. So you will be competitive on whether we will get jobs to Austria in the future or not. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also very important to me to note that I do not question the need to learn basic knowledge: Calculation, writing, reading, living foreign languages, but also historical contexts or philosophical foundations. However, I would like to ask whether this much more detailed knowledge is needed at the expense of the skills mentioned earlier. At the end of school we have to have students who recognize the problems, who can critically light them, and who have solutions to them, who have values and who act independently and above all creatively, because that's what distinguishes us from the machine. This is exactly what will secure human jobs and tasks in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the fourth part of the educational report, to which I not only congratulate, but also thank myself for it – as has been said, it is a very profound, comprehensive work – one deals with the future prospects of the education system. I could mention many areas that are necessary for an excellent education system, such as more economy in education or more Mint subjects. I would like to thank you for working on this as part of the revision of the curriculum, because that will be the key tasks to ensure the prosperity of the country. But it will be crucial, above all, to bring digitisation more and more into classrooms. Digitalization in school does not mean that we are going to wipe the tablets in the future, and I would also like to mention this in connection with the previous saying – that is not in kindergarten. Nevertheless, I believe that you should also look at logical thinking in the kindergarten, and that is what you learn here and there also with playful touch on programming. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Cox and Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff on his report.]] It has been shown that the influence of computers on learning success is low if it is not used accordingly by the educators. But if it is accompanied, it is very important for learning success and can also achieve strong effects. In future, we will need the trained educators and educators. But if we do – and I am convinced that we will – then we also have the opportunity to shake teachers free in the future, so that they will become mentors and companions more and more – no more frontal talk, no more levelling down, so that everyone will come along. The use of digital media can also make it possible for children in their to pick up and allow the educators time and space to support the children individually. Ladies and gentlemen, some schools are already doing this and are showing schools. But we constantly insist on equal opportunities. I believe that if we really want to live this right of opportunity, we need a comprehensive digitalisation with the right approach in all schools. It must not be a matter of whether you are in Tyrol or in Vienna, whether you are going to an HTL or to a secondary school, because that would lead to a digital gap – to a separation in the education system – which we simply cannot afford, because it is a start-up disadvantage in life and especially in the professional world. We don't know many future careers yet, but we know that about 90 percent of them are related to digitalization in the future. My goal is to prepare the children for it, because I am convinced that this is better than after that to care for them in unemployment insurance – just as it is better to prevent health rather than to clean up or treat them later on. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ]] Mr Minister, I know and am also very grateful for the fact that you have recognised the problem and, together with the Ministry, are working on a comprehensive plan for digitisation in order to make Austria's education system fit for the digital age. What you've heard so far sounds very promising. It seems to be a plan that really integrates the fields of education, teaching and technology and provides for measures that prepare our students for a successful life in a digitalised and rapidly changing world. In the name of many educators, parents and, above all, students, I can now ask you and the government to present this plan better yesterday than tomorrow, because without the rapid implementation we will continue to go down in the details of the Doric pillars. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22706	Since no one has made any mention of this, I will close the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes a final word. - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of this report III-268 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of him and give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:45:03]] 5. Point Report by the Teaching Committee on Amendment 495/A by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, Karl Nehammer, MSc, colleagues on a Federal Law amending the School Teaching Act (612 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22755	We shall now proceed to item 5 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Hammerschmid's speech. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e22788	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I want to start with a quote: “You must not limit migration to Islam, and integration must not be limited to plumsy messages such as “Boffuch – yes or no”. Whoever does this doesn’t mean it seriously with the topic.” – True words that I can only agree with. This quote comes from Sebastian Kurz from his time as the State Secretary for Integration. At the time, he wanted to listen to experts – he stressed this in this interview – and not focus on white populism. Those who deal with intercultural issues on a daily basis tell us that the introduction of the head-cloth ban as a single measure is not a goal. As such, however, as an individual measure, it is here in Parliament today. We also say quite clearly that no girl should be forced to wear a headscarf. [[Abg. Worm: Sad!]] But it is also clear that behind this pressure to wear a headscarf, there is often much more, much more, and therefore a pure ban will not help, because as soon as the children leave the school building, they will put it back on. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] Integration is a continuous and lengthy process and a far too important task to be used for populist statements and measures. For us, it was always important to negotiate a comprehensive integration package for schools in Austria, and we have given you several hands to conduct this discourse, for example with experts from the Integration Council or from science and with stakeholders. We are talking about a bundle of measures. It is a question of developing language support. It's about expanding school courses all day. Sufficient resources are a topic and also enough psychologists, social workers and social workers – this has already been a topic for several times today. But what has the Federal Government done? – It simply removed 80 million euros, 80 million euros for precisely these measures, which concern social workers, psychologists, German pedagogists and integration education. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] There you can see where the priorities are, and there you can see that this issue of integration is simply not important for you. It is a lie and a symbolism behind this measure – no more and no less. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[He-Rufe and other calls to the ÖVP.]] This is also reflected in the fact that this measure has not even been sent in review. There you could say, yes, typical of this federal government, it is very often so. But what were you afraid of, Mr. Minister? – That the experts are tearing this in the air? Why didn't you do that? So it's just the headline. With you from FPÖ, I will be great at all if you act as the top protector of women's and children's rights. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, what is it?]] [[Abg. Worm: The last protector, Mrs. Colleague!]] Dear FPÖ, where were What about women's rights at the last National Council meeting? [[Abg. Worm: You gave up women's rights!]] – All 30 requests from the women’s people were rejected. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NOW.]] How important are children's rights – about 70,000 children – when it comes to the abolition of minimum security? In social assistance Newly give the second child 4,50 Euro and the third child 1,50 Euro. [[Abg. Hauser: Plus Family benefits!]] [[Further on-the-spot calls at the FPÖ.]] How important are the children? [[Abg. Worm: Haven't you been watching...?]] I could continue for a long time to show your duality your rejection of women's quotas, of women's promotion or of women's homes, of your linguistic derailments against women's rights and equal treatment. [[Abg. Rosary: This is pure narcissistic dialectic!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] Unfortunately, the refusal of dialogue was the case, and we ask for the dialogue once again. That is why we are also presenting the following motion for a resolution – the sum of the measures and not the symbol policy: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Hauser:... learned nothing again!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[19:51]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23050	Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you are taking back the statement, otherwise I would have to give you a call for order. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] [[Abg. Hammerschmid: No!]] Well, I'll give you a call for order. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Taschner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23127	Madam President. High house! Actually, yes, it's a symbol, but it's a symbol of substance. We have devoted ourselves long and broad to this symbol in the discussion at three teaching committee meetings. Of course, we have also heard experts – also ladies of course. We have really devoted ourselves to this issue intensively and responsibly, so that your statement, Mrs Hammerschmid, is actually stunning. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But however it may be, it is a symbol. This symbol was described yesterday in a Salzburg newspaper precisely, concise and in a sentence by Mrs. State Secretary Karoline Edtstadler, saying that the child's head cloth is a political symbol, Mrs. Cox, not a religious one; it is a political symbol of oppression, and with this law we will abolish this oppression. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[New applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We're not alone here. We know that Necla Kelek, the German sociologist, and Zana Ramadani are fighting this child's head cloth. We have also heard Ebrahim Afsah, we have read the petition of Terre des Femmes. It is about keeping the head - with the young girls in the public schools - free, keeping the head free for a development in physical, mental, mental. It is about freeing these girls from the notion of a subjugation to a mission, as Michel Houellebecq, the Nietzsche of our days, described in his novel of the same name. Michel Houellebecq threatens: “Good, but behind the philosophy of the Enlightenment you can make a cross: died.”– So he threatens, and with al-lem, what is sacred to me, I will try – and we all – to resist this threat. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is, Mrs Hammerschmid, in this symbol about the Enlightenment – the Enlightenment, which has been founded by the English, by Locke, and is described by the American founding fathers as “Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness” with life, freedom and one’s own pursuit of happiness. All of this has also been repeated by the French encyclopaedists up to Olympe de Gouges, who would turn around in the grave if she could hear what Mrs Hammerschmid said. This also applies to this country, when the Enlightenment, by Sunfels, by Born, was founded by the two van Swieten, Gerard and Gottfried. – All this up to the French-Josephine era, when the Enlightenment came again and here was the spiritual center of the world. Eugenie Schwarzwald would just turn around in the grave. It's about the information we need to get. It's about the sapere aude! the Immanuel Kant, to the exit from the insanity, to the exit from the submission which represents this head cloth. That is actually the case. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Bravorufe at the FPÖ.]] They say that this would only be a symbolic act for integration and would not hit the core. That's right, it's not a sufficient condition, but it's a necessary condition. This difference must be understood – at least as a mathematician. [[Abg. Yılmaz: This is not so difficult!]] – That’s right, it’s not that hard, no, but even for this lady, it’s a problem. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] - She accused me of lying. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm: Whoever distributes must also be able to plug in!]] I can tell you that too. Secondly, You say, of course: Yes, it is purely symbolic, but this symbol may be attacked as soon as we have decided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ, NEOS, JETZT and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Loacker: It is a difference whether a measure is lying or a person is lying!]] – Mr Loacker, you mean you have to distinguish between the measure and - -? – Yes, but I agree with my person for that, you know. [[Abg. Loacker: It is a difference whether a measure is lying or a person! That's a difference!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Whatever. This symbol will also be fought. So that's not a thing that's just so casual. We will most likely face complaints before the Constitutional Court and before the European Court of Human Rights. It is not an individual measure that is supposed to be only populist, as we are accused of. It's not populist at all. Awareness of the Enlightenment is not at all populist, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One thing I can say to you: “Addendum” will be photographed. Who will agree that the girls in our folk schools have the opportunity to develop freely? Then who will sit down and say: No, I'm not right? – Then the representatives of political Islam will at least know who their potential associates are. We'll get up anyway. We are in favour of the girl being given the unfolding of her personality, and we stand by it.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23292	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23329	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I read an interview with a Syrian priest some time ago. This Syrian priest described how peaceful Alawites, Sunnis, Shiites and Christians lived together before the outbreak of the civil war in Syria. He said I was sitting in school next to a girl with a headscarf – he is a Christian – and no one came across it. When I read this, I thought it was a sunken world. It is destroyed by fundamentalism, extremism, radicalism. Why is it that it always succeeds in dividing people apart, that it always succeeds to arouse hatred and aversion between the members of different religions? Why is it that foreign habits and customs are rejected, persecuted with hatred? – I thought, however, that this question must also be asked if it is to be banned in folk school. This is justified by the law that social integration should be promoted in accordance with local customs and customs, and this serves the perception of basic constitutional values and educational objectives as well as equality between men and women. My question is: Does this mean that girls are demarcated in folk school? – If that is the case, don’t you have to put up with those who limit them, and not with those who are excluded? [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To what extent does it threaten the educational goals in the public school when girls wear a headscarf? Do they learn to read, write and count less easily? Are they stupid than the others? Does it prevent the headcloth from learning? - I don't think so. I didn't see there was empirical evidence for that either. In any case, you have not mentioned this, although you, Mr. Federal Minister – which I especially appreciate – are a politician who acts evidence-based. [[Admissibility with NEOS and SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser]] I miss such evidence in this area. [[Call the FPÖ:Oye!]] I know, of course, that these reasons have been put forward, we all know that, and that it is really about this – Mr. Tashner has already said that – to give a sign that the Islamic head covering is not desirable in us. What do we do with it? . We make the girls responsible in our folk schools for the fact that authoritarian regimes in Iran, Saudi Arabia, suppress women in Afghanistan. [[Abg. Tashner: This is shortened!]] Does this improve the situation of women in these countries? [[Call the FPÖ:Well, but hopefully in Austria!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Does this serve to integrate us if we question the cultural identity of Muslims? Is not the damage greater than the advantage? [[No call at the FPÖ.]] To prevent all misunderstandings: I'm not in favour of girls wearing a headscarf in folk school, but I'm in favour of everything being done, every child has the chance to develop his skills, no matter where it is born, under what conditions it grows up, even if it hasn't drawn the big lot in the birthlot, like all of us here, and that measures are taken that cost a lot of money. It has already been said what could and must be done. This is, of course, a policy of substance that costs something. It does not bring the rapid applause, but it is what our future owes and what a responsible government should do. It should refrain from such a symbolic policy, which only causes damage to society, which only satisfys a certain clientele. That would be my wish and hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23416	Mr Mölzer came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23437	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Taschner, I thank you for your very precise and well-being words. You, I think, perfectly outlined what this is all about. I can also agree with your name of Mr Hammerschmid's speech, which is that it is stunning. The speech by Mrs Griss was now somewhat as stunning as it was. I always feel that you live somewhere in an ivory tower and don't see all the realities that are happening here. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is indeed a political symbol; Mr Taschner did it really well. It is really a question of sending a signal against political Islam that we do not want in our country. However, in recent years we have unfortunately had to take note of God's concern that there is a problem with his spreading out and that, unfortunately, God's young girls are almost being abused by wearing the headcloth. They don't do that voluntarily! Or do you want to tell anyone, Mrs. Griss? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you are philosophizing about it or I would rather say swadron or bramarbasing that girls may or may not be excluded, that is exactly why they have to wear a headscarf – out of political religious fundamentalist conviction – that they cannot integrate themselves into our society. That's why we're forbidding the headscarf in the folk school so that these young girls can integrate into our society. To the SPÖ and your application you submitted: This is also funny once again: sluggish about placards, standbys, as well as the speech by you, Mrs Hammerschmid. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I must say that your demands for more money, resources and the like are typical socialist. But that will not solve the problems. That's what the past has shown. Your policy has failed there, and I think it is wrong to extend the model you live or implement as SPÖ responsible in Vienna to all of Austria. I think the way we're going is right. At this point, I think, it must be said again – and I will do it a thousand times again –: It can't just be about money. It must also be said that those people who come to us in the country will bring with them the will to integrate themselves. Then it would be much easier and we wouldn't have to think about it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are acting, this is once the most important point you have not made. We're acting, we're setting a signal. And I know it's not just about signals. We have already managed to put in place central measures, for example with the language-level surveys in kindergartens or when schooling and the corresponding German funding measures. Further measures will have to follow, that is no question at all. We're just taking the issue of action into our hands. I ask you not to make yourself a leader of political Islam for any reason, you are dealing with us, you decide with us this headwear ban! That would be a strong signal from us. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Tag Action: It has already been mentioned today. We obviously have a massive problem with violence in schools. You have probably also reached the news that this afternoon a student with a knife has gone off to fellow students and could only be prevented by the hearty action of a teacher worse. We all know the case already discussed from a Vienna HTL. I would like to thank the Minister at this point that we have already made a plan of action or have considered how to restrict violence at schools: with prevention on the one hand and, if necessary, with time-out groups on the other. I believe it is important to put in place these measures to give teachers the right tool to deal with this violence in schools, and on the other hand to give the young people who have slipped in there the opportunity to come out of it. I thank the Minister that he has announced the relevant actions. In order to speak again to the headwear ban: Join our action today, vote with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23523	Mrs Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23544	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! We have here a long-overdue debate on the role of religion in public space, more concrete about the role of religion in public schools. [[Call the ÖVP: No, here!]] – Yes, quite consciously, I am not only talking about girls of age who are not supposed to wear a head covering – and you, Mr Minister, can also judge Mrs. State Secretary Edtstadler – I am also speaking not only of the crosses in the classrooms, but also of my contribution to this discussion is a bigger one. It includes a lot more, because I wish our children and young people could be in non-religious schools and thus grow up to encourage citizens. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, yes, great!]] This also means that public schools must finally be non-religious spaces. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What does religion-free rooms mean to me? – For me, non-religious spaces mean that there are no visible religious symbols in the classrooms. That's what I mean by everybody. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] Unlike you, who are just raising the voice, ladies and gentlemen from the government groups, I do not just stay on the ban. No prohibition, which does not follow appropriate countermeasures, prevents something fundamental. That's why it needs more than just bans, because only because you don't have something you can't learn from it. There is no dialogue and no exchange, and I wish to exchange. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] I wish me a dialogue, I wish for an exchange and I wish myself a dialogue and an exchange for our students in schools. How can such an exchange take place? [[Abg. Hammer: That’s not what you want!]] – For example, through mandatory ethics teaching for all children, regardless of their personal faith. [[OBJECTIVES]] That would also mean, ladies and gentlemen, the religious teaching of religion is no longer a compulsory subject, but, and that is also stated in my request, it can be offered in addition and autonomously by the schools as a voluntary electorate. Why this package of measures? Why do I ask for a non-religious room school? [[Abg. New builder: No one understands that!]] [[Call at the FPÖ: Why?]] For example, I could be pleased that at least a religious symbol, namely the headcloth, should disappear from the folk school. I am not pleased, however, because this current draft law is a populist individual measure against a religious minority. There you have to remember, too: The State is obliged to treat all religious communities equally. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] It is cowardly when the responsible colleagues represent themselves as protectors of Muslim girls, but at the same time the conflict-affected discourse with the affected parents, the discussion with the public, and also with us exactly this discourse and this discussion shy and therefore do not support these girls. Yes, one really has to deal with the affected parents, as it is not enough to punish just. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Black.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The public school is a place where children of different origins grow up and grow together for a long time in close contact. This place should be a place where the economic feeling is strengthened. A public school should be a place where one can live and grow together with common values of humanity, where children become powerful citizens, that is, religiously powerful citizens, and thus not radical ideologies are lost. I also wish that the public school, the school itself, allow an interreligious dialogue, an exchange and a discussion. [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] Minister Fässmann! In an interview at the beginning of September you announced a wide debate with all parties. The goal was, and I would remind you of the goal of reaching a social consensus on how religious thesis should continue in school. Where does this debate remain? [[Call the FPÖ:We'll lead them anyway!]] If we do not manage to have a fact-based, curious, appreciative dialogue on religion and ethics, at least we give our children the chance to do so. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with JETZT.]] [[20:14]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23777	The request just read has been properly filed and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Marchetti. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23801	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I feel that we are partly discussing at different levels. So just when I'm speaking to you, Mrs. Griss, for example: This theoretical level, on which you go, has nothing to do with the practice at all. I'm in 10. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] For example, I can also tell you from my experience how this happens. I had a Muslim student with whom I understood myself very well, we always talked. As soon as the school was out, she didn't talk to me anymore. I asked myself: Why doesn't she talk to me anymore? Did I do anything wrong? It was so that she told me sometime, yes, her dad doesn't want her to talk to men, so she can't talk to me if we leave school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wicker.]] These are things that happen, that's the practice. There are parents who put pressure on the children. Even with this child's head cloth, it is so that the children do not decide for themselves whether they wear it or not. If they have to take it off in school, they will notice that they are not alone, that they have a choice that this is not normal. That's the symbol we need to send out quite, very urgently, Mrs. Dr. Griss. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It was also a question of restricting religious practice. So I have to say quite clearly: We're talking about folk school here. We're talking about children between six and ten years old. In a moderate interpretation or in a normal interpretation of Islam, children do not wear headscarves before sexual maturity. They don't wear a headcloth at this age. It's just important to say that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My colleague Hammerschmid said that we should teach experts, and that wouldn't have happened. – There was an expert hearing. One result of this was that, among other things, we said that other religious groups, where the practice of religion would be restricted, such as in the case of the Kippa and the Patka, are not covered, because we do not want to restrict the exercise of religion, we just do not want extremes in school. That is why we have also decided to establish a committee, which was a result of the expert hearing. They put themselves here and say that there would have been no ex-perts involved, we would have whipped it through. – We have discussed this long and detailed. Among other things, we have taken this point from the expert hearing and have also made it clear in a committee statement. That was a good process, involving quite, very many, it was a long process. If you're saying that didn't happen, I'm really wondering how serious it is. You really want to talk about this issue. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mrs Cox! The first part of your statement that religious symbols are to disappear from public life: So I hope you don't mean that seriously, because then you would have to tear down the church almost in every second village. [[Abg. Cox: I didn’t say that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] So I'm not going to go into that at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] The second part of your statement concerns the school. We can take a look at the example of France: There is no religious teaching in schools, there is religious teaching in the back room, privately organized and somewhere else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cox.]] I think it is a very good way that religious teaching takes place in the school under state control and in this way you also oppose extremes. This is a good, proven model, I would never question that in any case. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say: It's about the child's head cloth, it's not about the general headscarf. This is a very, very important difference. Yeah, it's a symbol that we put there. But I think it is legitimate to say – you have also mentioned birth lottery: it is about children born in Austria and being socialized – that we, as the state of Austria, signal that extreme religious interpretations and extremes have no place in the school. That's a symbol, and it's the absolutely right symbol.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23894	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e23912	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marchetti! Faith You really think we've reached the end of the flag rod with this law now? - Just like that. [[Abg. Marchetti: I didn't say!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I believe that, step by step, you are turning a group of Austrians away from our society with such laws. Mr. Tashner! Faith You really are going to achieve the liberation of the Muslim woman with this law? You can't be so naïve! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] I don't think so. [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't think so. [[Abg. Prince: You did not understand the speech again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a novel on women's clothing regulations. These are almost everywhere in the world. There are mullahs and religious fanatics who prescribe to women what they have to wear, telling them that they are not allowed to drive. There are dictators and despots that forbid women in public offices to wear pants or to wear the hair openly. Do we want to get in there? As a feminist, the stomach turns around when I experience or experience that fathers, brothers, brother-in-laws – whoever – force young girls to wear a towel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] - We're talking about feminists. So if we need a feminist, you're definitely not. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this law, we will throw away and lose many people from us. You're going to lose confidence. [[call to the FPÖ.]] These are Austrians who were born here. They don't need a German course either. [[Abg. Höbart: That's really incredible!]] How many children are we talking about, Mr. Minister? [[Abg. Höbart: There you haven't been a wire for a long time!]] How many children are we talking about in folk school? Tell me! I'm afraid. That's just the beginning. The closest are the secondary schools, teachers, public space, hospitals and so on. Don't do that, it hurts us all, believe me! Living together in Austria works really well. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Well, there are always problems, are there? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are a model for many states. You are taking the first step towards segregation with this law. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Besides, I'm so nervous that we're always talking about women's clothing. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and NOW.]] Do you have anything else? It's only women!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24068	Mrs Cox has made a statement on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24092	Mr Marchetti has claimed that I would like to ban crosses in public space. In addition, he has also claimed that by my request, I would like to ban religious teaching in the backyard by my demands. I'm actually reporting: If you have studied the application carefully - - – I am actually reporting - – I am correct that – if you have read the request carefully, you know it – I demand an election box, and that in no backyard. [[Abg. Neubauer: Correct!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Corporate!]] I have no idea what school you were in, but I hope your constituencies took place in the backyard. - That was number one. Number two – if you have just listened attentively to me, you know –: I have said that we are having a long overdue debate on the role of religion in public space. My concrete demand was: no visible religious symbols in the classrooms.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24152	I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24173	Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. The intellectual brilliance Mr. Professor Taschners I am not going to be able to tap now, I am trying to present my statements in simple words. Maybe about the origin and the meaning of the head cloth that we are talking about today in order to make this clear again, I also have to look into it and get myself advised: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yılmaz]] In the Sure 24 and in the Sure 33 it is defined that it is basically about protecting women from men's lustrous eyes and preventing men's sexual exhilaration. [[Abg. Vogl: Are you radicalized, Peter?]] This is the meaning and origin of the headcloth. Now I ask today, in 2019, here in Vienna, in Austria: Have we come to Austria so far that we need to discuss this seriously? Do we really want to transfer our society back to the Middle Ages for 300, 400 years? I ask this question today in this debate, because that is the basis of the discussion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In order to simply clarify something in between [[a board with the cover of a magazine that shows women in pants, pointing to the speaker's desk]] I don't know if you see it well, that's a cover of a magazine from Iran in the 1970s, that's 40 years ago. I am now at an age when I also visited Islamic countries in my youth. That's 40 years ago. I have now deliberately taken no picture of Iran in 2019. I have another picture, we can continue: Iraq, Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Afghanistan, Somalia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia – it's a bit small – you see free, happy, self-determined, beautiful women. [[a table containing nine illustrations of women from different countries on the speaker's desk]] You can no longer make these pictures in these countries in 2019. That's no longer happening there. This debate is in fact the subject of this agenda. I would like to say again: The expert round was very interesting. I was shocked about the arguments of SPÖ and NEOS, I have to say, to the list Pilz I say nothing now. So these arguments, which are all about this question, whether or not girls in kindergarten and folk school should wear a headscarf! I am allowed to read, because that is simply perfect, the opinion of the Islamic expert – we had two Islamic experts in it – is: For “Zana Ramadani, young girls are brought by a head cloth around their childhood and their right to physical self - determination. ” - That's what the Islam expert says. Small reference to all: Where's the children's rights that you'd always like? [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It goes on: “The ban on ‘freedom and children’s rights’, which the Austrian government is seeking, prevented early conditioning of those concerned and thus constitutes an important step against the spread of Islamic fundamentalism. For Ramadani, young girls are ‘abuse’, which leads to psychological damage and exclusion from public space, as it would reduce children to their sexual component. ‘Even if only one child is affected’, MEPs would have to vote in favour of the ban, for that would be ‘a case too much’. If the state doesn’t act here, he blames himself for that.” – The expert in the committee says. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A small reference, I don't want to do that right now: It was also clearly defined in the Committee that when the head covering reaches the maturity of the sex, menstruation, the Koran is then clearly prescribed religiously. I don't want to discuss this in depth today, just to think for home: Then who's going to check this out sometime? It's interesting to me when the SPÖ quotes feminism. Alice Schwarzer – whom I didn't think I had to call her up as a witness at one time – also realized where this path led, and that he didn't help feminism. Also an interesting page on the Internet, I can recommend to everyone: Before Sharjah Spoiled Everything. This is the development that all of us have unfortunately participated in God. So I can only say again: For us or for me, women are equal and equal, and so I would like to do so in the future in Austria. Finally, I would like to say: It always surprises me when, above all, the left, intellectual side of it passes around, but I don't see the big train of the left women's rights activists who settle in Islamic countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] If all this is supposed to be so great and so great, then I wonder why not all of them break into the promised country, into Islamic states where the situation for women is supposed to be so great. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yılmaz]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24284	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24306	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! What do children need? How can the school meet these needs in order to best support and develop the diverse potentials and talents of these children and the next generation? These are the questions we need to discuss when we talk about school, about children and their future. In addition to these questions, the answers are immediately available, namely: Children, girls like boys, need love, they need recognition, they need challenges and confirmations. They must be called for and promoted and in their lives confirmed that they can also achieve and master the goals they pursue. But what are we talking about here? In this whole discussion, we are not talking about the children, but about how individual religious communities are treated. [[Abg. Worm: About rights!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We are talking about the state of one or the other religious community. We are talking about backward religious ideas and constraints. We are talking about constraints that are increasingly entering our society and are increasingly beginning to shape people's lives in a way that we do not know and that we have not thought of. We are talking about how religions, among other things, also draw new divisions through our society, where we have actually believed that we have overcome them, between believers and unbelievers, between men and women, between boys and girls. We are talking about how the already unclear situation and border between religion and state can be further blurred in our country. I therefore fully support my colleague Stephanie Cox's request. It is actually a very large, but very simple objective, which is set out in this proposal, namely to make the school an area of learning and an area of education. It's supposed to be a school that makes no difference, going where a child comes from and what kind of sex this child has. In school, it is only to support all children as best as possible and to accompany and guide them on their way to a powerful, self-determined and ethical adult. One thing is perfectly clear to me: In this school of the future, religious dogmas, from whatever side they come, have lost nothing. [[Accompaniment with Now as well as the Abg. Bißmann.]] That is why it is simply not enough if the proposal by the government groups recognises only Islamic clothing regulations as a problem. It is simply unbelievable when you go here and enrich this debate with the argument that you want to protect girls up to the age of ten from this sexual segregation. I think it is our job as a politician to protect these girls not only until the tenth year of life. What about a girl in the eleventh year of life? Has this girl no longer deserved the protection of the state from political influence, from political instrumentalization, including also from political Islam? That is why I support my colleague Stephanie Cox's request, because this request covers the entire public education system and not just girls up to the age of ten. Estimated representatives of the government parties! Your request is at best a small step in the right direction, and I will give it my support. [[Call the ÖVP: Go to him!]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: Very generous!]] But I'm looking for you: Trust At the next step, put on the seven-mile boots! Do you stand by what you say, namely that it is important to protect our children and young people from religious foresight! This is not only a matter of this individual measure, but also a comprehensive package of measures, just as my colleague Stephanie Cox and we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24384	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24405	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to begin by thanking the initiators of this motion, Mr Nehammer, Mr Taschner and Mr Mölzer. As a politician, we must show, not only show, but also clearly oppose and take action in society which is clearly opposed to our basic values. And that's what we're doing today. Such misdevelopment is that the faith and children, especially young girls, are instrumentalized for political agents by forcing young girls to wear a headscarf in kindergarten or popular school. This is something that clearly opposes the development of children, the development of self-esteem, the development of an independent personality. But this is also clearly against the own religious conviction of the majority of Muslims in this country, as we have heard in the committees. The wearing of the head cloth is also a symbol of the woman’s sexual maturity. I cannot understand at the best of my will that this should be given in the kindergarten or in the folk school, nor can anyone make me aware of it today. It's about every child, and every child that has to wear this child's headcloth is too much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is why it is clear to us that it is a task to oppose this development and also to implement this ban on the people's school today. But what seems absurd to me is that, although all the parties present here have expressed themselves publicly in the last few weeks, but also in the individual committees dealing with this issue, and also here from the speaker's desk to the wearing of the child's headcloth, you as opposition parties will still not agree with it today – with the exception of course. I can't understand that at the best of my will. The argument that has been put forward here is absurd to me. In part, it is explained that it is worse in other countries, but that does not relativize the situation in Austria. [[Abg. Yılmaz: It's always about women!]] It is argued that it is only a single measure, but each single step is a real and more important one. In part, I had the feeling that it has been argued that we should simply accept it. [[Abg. Krainer: Who said that?]] – Not from you, but so it has come today that we should simply accept it. But this is not to be accepted! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I should also like to remind you that we in Parliament have not long before adopted a 15a agreement, which included the ban on the headscarve in the kindergarten, and that every single party has agreed to this 15a agreement. What should be different here now, from kindergarten to folk school, is not understandable to me. This will probably be due – and this is often not said – to the fact that it is a government proposal. It is not about Islam, it is not about the Muslims in our country. It is about a current, it is about political Islam, which undermines Austrian and European fundamental values and social standards. We want equality between men and women, between boys and girls. We want to live up to this equality. We want to offer children a school where they feel safe, where they can develop, where integration is lived, and where discrimination and demarcation are not allowed. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this headwear ban today.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24467	Mrs Bißmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24485	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery! Before I start my speech, I would like to wish all Muslims Ramadan Mubarak. [[Abg. Neubauer: (showing in the direction of gallery) Here is filmed!]] For more than ten years, the FPÖ has been leading political campaigns against Muslim citizens in our country. A whole generation of Muslims had to grow up in this country with resentments against their culture and religion. They had to endure being highly stylized day after day into the main enemy image of the right-wing polypolists, and they had to read proverbs such as “Daham instead of Islam” of large posters. Today we see and hear Muslim women being insulted, spitted and attacked on the street with a head cloth – that happens – and that is the result of your political het campaign! [[Call the FPÖ:But go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] The ban on the headscarf, ladies and gentlemen, is no more than a sham debate on the alleged child welfare. In reality, however, it is only a matter of banishing the adult copy-bearing woman from the public in a next step. [[Abg. Schimanek:... free!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This cloth is part of the daily lives of many Muslims in this country, it is part of their cultural identity. [[Keep a folded headgear in height]] It belongs to her identity as for the politician the sakko, as for the school child the school bag or for the mechanic of the blue man. But now this cloth has become a symbol of your anti-Muslim policy. The mullahs in Iran prescribe women to wear what they have to wear. But you, the esteemed Minister and also representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP, are doing exactly the same here in Austria, only in a different way by telling women what they do not have to wear. [[Abg. Rosary: The girl, six to ten years old!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] – In the first step the girls and in the second step the women. Is that not exactly the same attitude? [[Abg. Rosary: With your steps you can see how that ends!]] High on the courageous women in Iran! A highlight of self-determination for every man, for every woman in this world! I personally am quite determined against the constraints of all kinds, and this is also the majority of all Muslims in this country. No one is in favour of forcing girls to wear headscarves, really hardly anyone; and the very few cases where that happens, where girls are forced, require individual counter-strategies where the state, social workers and educators, must get under the arms of parents. Where are these approaches? Has dialogue with the Islamic community ever been conducted in Austria, or do Muslims need to continue to learn about your actions and punishments from the newspaper? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Estimated FPÖ! Is it really what you're afraid of? [[Keep the folded headgear in height again]] Are you afraid of this cloth? Or is this something you have been using as a symbol for over ten years to conjure up a great danger to our so-called Christian-secular eveningland to distract society from the real problems? I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[the headgear folding apart]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Yes, look at me! [[The speaker binds the cloth around her head, but leaves the front part of her hair uncovered.]] [[Call:]] [[Abg. Schrangl: By the way, in Iran they carry it further behind, gel?- Oh, my God!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schrangl: That's where I was right now! No woman on the plane has a...!]] Did anything change? [[Call:Yes! Of course.]] Am I not still Martha Bißmann, a diploma engineer, environmental expert, national councillor, free, emancipated, feminist, non-confessive woman with the firm conviction that everyone is born free and equal to dignity and rights? In recent months, I have had the great honour of getting to know many great Muslim women who want to punish you, including doctors, physicists, teachers, workers, employees, mothers, daughters. You are so successful, so committed! A headcloth doesn't prevent anyone from making a career. Let's talk to the Muslim women instead of always talking about them! We can also learn a lot from Muslim women. Values such as tolerance, willingness to help, solidarity, common sense, these are values, Austrian values, by the way, deeply anchored in the Muslim community of Austria. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24689	Ladies and gentlemen, come. To the final sentence, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24705	But now quite apart from the values: This law is very likely unconstitutional because it mentions neither the Jewish Kippa nor the patka of the Indian Sikhs. [[the speaker takes the headgear off again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24729	(Parliament agreed to the request for an early vote) Mr Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Martha Bißmann [[Continue]] High on religious freedom in our country! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24758	Mrs Schimanek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24790	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Mr Tashner mentioned symbols in the first place, and yes, the headcloth is a strong symbol, and this must also be said indisputably here. Mrs. Griss, you have addressed the subject of when girls should wear a headcloth. According to Islamic law, Muslim girls have a head-towel duty when inserting puberty. That means, however, in the reverse: The sexual maturity of the girls is carried outside. But I don't want my daughter, my granddaughter, to show her sexual maturity openly. That is a very discriminatory ten! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The covering of the hair in Islamic culture also serves to protect women and girls from sexual assaults. The cover of hair, neck, neck and chest should be used to not provoke men sexually. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This clearly makes the headscarf for children a sexualization of girls and their degradation to a sexual object, and this has not lost anything in our schools! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My colleague, Peter Wurm, has broken a Koranverse. I would also like to read something about it so that you know what we are talking about. The statement of the headcloth in Islam is recorded in the Qur'an in the following place: Sure 33, verse 59: “O Prophet, speak to your wives and to your daughters and to the wives of the faithful that they may cover themselves in their overwhelmment. Thus they are rather recognized and will not be hurt.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that means in reverse: All non-hidden women in Austria or all over the world are identified as unbelievers, are unclean and may also be injured. That is why, Minister, I would like to thank you for the fact that we have now also managed to enforce the ban on the headscarve in the public school. The school is obliged to ensure a safe environment for all pupils in order not to be discriminated against on grounds of sex. However, the regulation concerning the head covering means in the reverse, as I said earlier: If I don't wear it, I'm impure, unclean and uncouthy. We must protect our girls from this, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] With your rejection of the ban on the headscarf to the public schools, you have made a deep kneefall before political Islam, and that is your shame! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The arguments you gave us today are such a false and unbelievable thing that it is simply not to be grasped anymore. As a woman in Austria, I have the right to freedom and self-determination, and I do not let anyone take that from me, and not from those antiquarian Muslim men at all! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] I will be the first to fight from this pult for the rights of women in Austria! I'd hope that I'd just get the women from the SPÖ as a ver... There is no left or right, there is only one right or wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24886	I call Mr Lugar. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24908	Mrs. Bißmann has now motivated me to explain something. Mrs Bißmann asked us if something had changed by putting on the headcloth. My mother, too, was wearing a headgear for a while. The problem is not the headgear. Nor is it that we want to take away the freedom of religion from women. It's about the symbol. It's about men wanting women to wear a headscarf. It is not true that we restrict the religious exercise of women, for men want women to wear the headcloth, for two reasons: First of all, they want them not to be attractive to other men, since it is not planned that they choose their husband themselves, but most of them the father or someone else decides and it comes to a forced marriage. [[call to the FPÖ]] And second, if they are married to a woman, men want to make these as unattractive as possible for other men in order to get their own jealousy under control. [[Call at the FPÖ: That's the reason!]] That's the background of this headcloth. That is, we are not talking about a piece of fabric, we are talking about the systematic oppression of women. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We're talking about men – and that's what happened to us a few hundred years ago – systematically suppressed their daughters, their wives to make them birth machines to keep them fit, and that's the problem. That is, we are talking about a system by which women are systematically suppressed. Atatürk, a founder of Turkey, has banned the headcloth. It wasn't a Muslim hater, and it wasn't a judge. The founder of Turkey has banned the headcloth because it is exactly related to the oppression of the woman. You can't build a modern state if you suppress half of your population, you can't. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Actually, it's not the way Mrs. Griss claimed we're banishing women and girls. On the contrary! The state gives these women their hands, because these women do not have anyone to hand them. Read the book “The veil of fear ” by Sami Sharaff. Read this book! You'll see what's going on. From a very small point of view, the daughter is systematically suppressed, forced to marry, abused and devalued into a birth machine without rights, and that is the problem. What do you expect from a father, from a mother who covers her child at the age of ten? What do you expect from someone like that? Do you think that if the daughter is 11 or 12 she suddenly allows sexual self-determination, does he grant her potential for development? Faith You're all serious? It's not like that! The parents are also indoctrinated. There are 300 million genitally mutilated women in the world. Do you know who's mutilating these women genitals? To a large extent, they are their own mothers! There are also 8,000 women in Austria who are genitally mutilated. In Austria! And these women are in pain in sexual intercourse, have pain in urinating and other things. These women in Austria are largely unable to operate to put an end to this pain because they are afraid of their own family. That's how it looks, and that's the problem! That means we have to hand over to these women. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If I can reach out to a ten-year-old child if as a state I have the opportunity to reach out to a ten-year-old child and say: You live in a country where you can develop freely in which you have the possibility of sexual self-determination once you have grown up in which you can choose your partner yourself, in which you will be formed, in which you will not be married!, then I will do it, and that is exactly what we do today. If the SPÖ doesn't vote there just because she's afraid to lose her Muslim voters in Vienna, I can only say one thing: They carry the women's rights and the rights of these children for political change to grave, and that is bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24969	Mrs Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e24988	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few points. I don't want kids wearing a head covering because it wants their parents. But I know what I'm doing with it. I'm stupid! – we should not stop contact, Mr Schimanek, with a ban. [[Abg. Schimanek: We don't do that either!]] We should talk to them, we should hire social workers. [[Abg. Höbart: This is not about this!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We should talk to the parents. Do you think I'm making a law for maybe ten children in the folk school – I think it's perhaps even less, because no one can tell me a number – - - How many are it? [[Call the SPÖ: How many are it?]] - I don't know, but we say no. [[Abg. Rosary: It's about setting a sign!]] I say: If we support the children, we talk to them so that we don't lose them. Something else is very important in this case, Mr Minister, namely that you have not made a statement at all. [[Abg. Deimek: That's embarrassing what you're talking about!]] I'm very surprised now. This is a very important issue for you, for the coalition. They want to set a sign and free the Muslim women. You won't be able to do that! We have to stay in the conversation. I don't think it's over either. I'm afraid the discussion will continue. You actually want to have the Muslim, copy-carrying woman out of public life, and you think you can do this by law. You can't! – I am against the mullahs that forbid women to wear no headcloth. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm fighting them. I am against those dictators that forbid women to drive a car, and I partly abstain from the right to vote. I'm against the fact that women are being taken for granted, and that they help children. Child welfare is very important. We need to help children and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25098	Mrs Schimanek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25124	Madam President. Mrs Nurten! You really motivated me to speak to you here again. So still it's not possible! It's not going to be silent yet! Of course, I have talked to those concerned and even with integration representatives who have very probably confirmed to me that the ban on the headscarf at the folk school is a right and important measure. I have also spoken several times with integration representatives who are Muslims themselves. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] What I don't hold out, with all my love, is your around now in this vote. Are you for it or are you against it? What you're doing now is just sham! You are thus trampling the women's rights in Austria with feet!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25160	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25182	Mrs Yılmaz, I do not know what your contribution to the debate is to be. Those who have read this application know that there must be a mandatory parent talk within it, and it is stated in § 2 that the headmaster must conduct a mandatory parent talk immediately and within four days of school, which is documented and passed on to all authorities if the prohibition against this headwear is violated. It is therefore not the case that there is no dialogue or that the contaminants are not involved. This is clearly regulated in the application. You're saying that's not happening. I just wanted to answer that this is simply not true, because it is exactly as you have requested. You think it's not supposed to be that way, but it's exactly that way in the request. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So I don't understand what's in your way to agree to that. And apart from that, dear SPÖ: At the 15a agreement, where we discussed exactly the same issue regarding kindergarten, you agreed. Where's the difference now? I don't understand. I don't see him. So it's not conclusive, and I'd really ask you to consider your arguments. There's a mandatory parent talk. You agreed to the kindergarten. Why vote You're not too close now, are you?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25218	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Lugar, want a final word? - That's not the case. Then we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 612 of the supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law for a sign of approval. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to this draft law at third reading for a sign on this point. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, on the 'total package for integration rather than symbolic policy'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Please, no comments! We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Cox, colleagues and colleagues on ‘no religious symbols in public schools’. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[21:01:48]] 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (595, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Time Act 1985 (613 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25309	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25337	Mr President. High house! It is a pleasure to tell you here that Mr Fäsmann, the Federal Minister, has now succeeded in finally implementing a holiday scheme that applies throughout the country. I can introduce them briefly: ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== October will be school-free days, so that a autumn holiday of 26. ==References== ==References== For this purpose Tuesdays are saved after Easter and after Pentecost, i.e. they become regular school days, and it is also ensured that the school autonomous days are limited so that the total teaching time does not change through this new regulation. So there will be as many days of schooling as before. We have now taken this scheme after a long, even decades of discussion. Mrs Yılmaz, we have discussed, discussed, discussed, but there is once again the point – and this is our task – on which you say you have to take a decision. This is really our commitment, and the population has also expected a decision to be adopted, and it will now be approved by this Federal Government. It is true that there are a lot of arguments for this, but there are also arguments against this regulation, and these arguments also have some weight. This regulation that we liked has been so much liked that those who say I don't like it, at least they won't get caught up in it, but can certainly live with it. It is better for the population to know, so it is than to maintain an eternal provisorium ad infinitum. This is a good news, and that is why I am also grateful that we have made the decision now. In addition, I would also like to highlight the arguments that speak for this regulation. It is true that, especially for families with several children, when the children go to different schools, a simplification of holiday planning results. So if you want to do so, it's a very family-friendly bill. It is a small building block of family-friendly government work, but we have already created large building blocks, we have the family bonus Plus, we have a tax reform that also supports the families. This building block is a small but not insignificant. He is in a way a small corner stone in the building that the government has set up. That is a very good draft. I think he can be accepted in general. Those who are still concerned may imagine: If we have decided to do so, the discussions will suddenly end, and we will say: Yeah, that's how we always had it, and so it's good. The proposal is in any case withdrawn. We are really good things, because we have created clarity and clarity here. I thank the Federal Minister, I thank the Cabinet, which worked quickly and quickly. We agree, of course, and I also hope that you will all agree. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25385	Member Kovacevic has been reported to speak. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25406	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers! In principle, I can follow the words of my predecessor. It is already true that uniform autumn holidays lead to better planning and are more skilled for families who have several children in different schools. You have also correctly said that there are winners and losers in such decisions. We know that there has been a very long discussion in the past. There were many attempts to unify the holidays. You're doing it this way, or you've proposed it that way. Well, that's fine for us too, but you can still note that there are also the losers you are talking about. For example, I know that the parents' representatives are not quite happy with this now, but should be in that case. If we look at the positive aspects or the benefits, let's leave it! I would like to focus very briefly on a few technical inconsistencies, regardless of the political decision, because there are still some open questions that we have raised and discussed in the committee, namely, real disagreements in the draft law. Perhaps we can clarify it a little bit today, Minister of State. One question was: What are the specific rules now applicable, what exceptions are there for the federal states? I do not know whether you, ladies and gentlemen from the FPÖ and the ÖVP, are always so attentive to the comments. We have tried to examine this very thoroughly. There were also some comments from the federal states in which they made their confusion known. They said they did not understand, for example, § 16, in which “can” and not“ must ” stands. Does this mean that federal states have the option to introduce or not to introduce the autumn holidays in a uniform manner, or would it have to be replaced by a “must”? The days to be released are not quite clear. – These inconsistencies have simply left us open questions. The essential unsolved point in this draft law, even if we agree with it, is the problem of childcare. We have also added to this the debate. Let's focus on the subject. We have said that, and this is confirmed in very many opinions, for example by the Federal Government, that if we do so and put in an additional holiday week, we must also ensure that there is a corresponding offer of childcare. That's very, very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A small thought in this context: I would like to point out once again one of our demands in connection with the sixth week of vacation. This would, for example, be an effective measure to counteract this lack of offer. Individual days off, as they used to be, were easier to cover than a whole week. That is why we are proposing the following resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will agree to your change of law, but also ask for our request to ensure that child care for working parents does not become an insoluble problem in autumn holidays and that the communities in this area are also a little relieved. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[21:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25529	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25553	Mr President. Minister! High house! It was already carried out by my previous speakers: You can't do it all right, but it's, I think, but it's important that you create a uniformation. It has already been carried out: This was simply a problem in the past, because on the one hand there was no planning at all, because you didn't know how it will be in the autumn, and on the other hand, of course, problems often appeared in everyday life if you had several children in different schools. I am firmly convinced that it is the right step to introduce this holiday in this form; there are also in many other countries. I also believe that it makes sense to have a break for the children in this long school autumn, which starts in Vienna at the beginning of September and in other federal states a week later, so that they can get through or, if they are older, can also use the time to learn before the intense phase before Christmas. That's, I think, very important. Another point that is also important: We have said that we want to see that we are also more involved in teacher training in autumn holidays, because we must not forget that the school autonomous days we had were actually exactly designed to make teacher education possible. We already know that teachers, unfortunately, have often inclined God to take these days off. This is why the union did not cry out exactly Hurra, but it should now be so that teachers' training takes place in this autumn holiday. Mr Kovacevic, a little thing bothered me: You've been talking about extra vacations. – That is not true, of course, because we only take days off, which already exist as such. That is, it is not the case now that we need additional care, but the care problem is moving, which is quite clear. [[Abg. Kovacevic's hands indicate a long distance.]] However, we will also, first of all – the Minister has already announced it – remedy the educational investment law as far as I have heard, and it will also become more planned, because it is something else when one has divided it into school autonomous days – Easter Tuesday, Pentecost Tuesday – which will no longer exist. So it makes sense, I think, that this is uniform in autumn, because that is easier for everyone to plan. Perhaps another basic word about the holiday arrangement, as we have it in Austria: It always appears at the beginning of the summer holidays, even because of the care question, the discussion – I am convinced that in one month we will probably read about it again in the media – that our summer holidays would be too long that this is a care problem et cetera pp. I am convinced that our current regulation is good, and I would like to remember that the younger children on the one hand need this long break in the summer – that is an argument for so long summer holidays – and that a reduction in summer holidays on the other – and we are very happy to forget – would make a regular holiday internship impossible for young people who are already aged to complete holiday internships. We know this, for example, from Bavaria or Baden-Württemberg, where the summer holidays take only six weeks, and the children – I know that because I have many acquaintances there – cannot make internships in summer because they would have been consumed all the time. So I think we have found a reasonable solution, and we should think so. One should not always discuss holidays, but the much more important questions in our school life that concern us. We'll do a lot of things to make ourselves fit for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25601	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25622	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear visitors to the gallery! In principle, this single solution is to be welcomed – as we have already said in the Committee – and we will therefore support this first step, but we must also be clear that it can only be a first step. We believe that the holiday regulations require generally sustainable solutions that provide more flexibility for parents and students and, on the other hand, also mean more quality of life and less stress for everyone involved. What does that mean? – We don’t see the holiday regulations as modern. It is very focused on the agricultural society, on the harvest times, and I believe that this plays a very subordinate role for the students these days and has no relevance anymore. [[Abg. Mölzer: It is oriented on hot summer when it is so cozy in school!]] In addition, the learning material is unfavourably distributed. There are many times in which they are strictly supervised. We are thinking, for example, of the first school weeks, until once the timetable stands, or of the last school weeks after the grade conference. There is very little - - – Of course, the first days of school are still not very planned. [[Abg. Rosary: It's all gone!]] [[Abg. Vogl: I just wanted to say that there is no longer any more!]] Ask You my sister, who goes to the fifth class, there is nothing going on in the first week of school, and that is still the case in most cases – and of course also before holidays; on these days very little happens often. [[Abg. Rosary: What kind of school is that?]] – An ordinary public school, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. Rosenkranz: Just so that you can send school supervision there once, the quality manager, the education director!]] A real reform of the holiday system means for us to introduce learning psychologically meaningful breaks, but on the other hand also to adjust the teaching times better. [[Call the FPÖ:Resurrection!]] The summer holidays were addressed: These are also too long for the reason that students who are at home and are not supported at home are not supported for two months – that is a disaster! – or for two months cannot use the teaching language, because at home the teaching language is not spoken – one of the topics that should really be your heart, colleague Mölzer – and then just come out and get kicked out. The next issue, which I believe is also very relevant in this context, is the topic of school autonomous days – that has already been addressed. We have already presented the proposal and will also bring it back to the teaching committee to introduce family autonomous days so that families can decide together with the children and there is also more flexibility; the compatibility of family and work – also a very important topic for young families – will be improved. Summary: The step towards uniform autumn holidays is a first one we welcome, but many more have to follow, and it cannot be that we stop at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25722	Member of the Cox Committee has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Dear viewers! Yes, we will agree to the request, especially because it is a uniform system throughout the country, which we welcome. I believe that this has already been mentioned and discussed in the Committee. What would be important to me at this point – it was also mentioned briefly – is childcare. I think that's something you shouldn't just look at in the autumn holidays. There has already been a request from me in the Committee, and we should already ask ourselves how we can implement this across the board and create a viable offer. I will repeatedly make my request, because I believe you have to look at how you can create an offer and get your teachers into the boat and thus also allow them practical experience, with a delay in studying, because the offer of school practice is not always time-consuming with the requirements. We also encourage a reward for holiday care. There was such a reward with the teaching practice, but this was abolished. I would therefore like to make a request again. I think it's a win-win situation: How can we make it possible to provide a quiet holiday care throughout the area ensure, not only in autumn holidays, but also in summer holidays? This is also a burden for families with several children. Holidays are good, important and right, but on the other hand they are not always easy to reconcile with the job and the family.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25780	Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25801	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased when I hear the previous speakers so that there is a broad majority for the introduction of these autumn holidays. We have been discussing these autumn holidays since the 1980s, every year in autumn. There has always been the discussion: The time between early September and Christmas is too long. The federal states have regulated this differently. I believe that it is time for clarity to be brought in, and that is exactly the manuscript of this federal government, which recognises problems, together with all those involved, to develop solutions and then actually implement them. This is not only true here, it is also at the headcloth ban, in the German promotion classes – we had already – or, for example, in the class trains in the New Middle School or the number notes in the folk school so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Vogl: Numeral notes, since... Expert Rosary!]] Since I was also a member of the teaching committee in the last GP, I am all the more pleased to be able to cooperate now, because with Federal Minister Fäsmann, education policy becomes more tangible and understandable; I am particularly pleased. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is a big difference too early because more appreciation is given to teachers, and this is what teachers need. Only motivated teachers are good teachers. Therefore, the method of creating solutions together and actually making decisions is also very good for the educators. It has already been discussed in detail and reported how we are introducing autumn holidays: No additional days are created. Why, after so long years, have we taken this step? – Society and family image change, and of course, in more and more families both parents are employed. If several children are in different schools, then the care through the school autonomous days has become really difficult. I believe – and this is what the surveys show – that parents, in particular, want a clarification for the future, and that is exactly what we are doing with this law. Since there are already regulations in some federal states and they are not uniform, it is, I believe, time to clarify them. This is what parents, teachers and students want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25848	Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25869	I would like to speak for the objective and obvious consensus. Discussion on a lengthy question that we can now, I believe, lead to an end. It is indeed a matter of clarity to the parents. For me, clarity is also a key word, Mr Kovacevic, to tell you: We clearly offer in the BIG that funds for holiday care should be available. In the BIG we also mentioned the autumn holidays expressis verbis, so that it is clear. This is where the local authorities have access to funds through the countries. The communities must make it clear, they must also make it voluntary. One cannot oblige the communities to do so, but the incentive that the financial resources are made available is there. I think it's generally a good arrangement, a good package and in two years or in a year you'll probably say: Why have we discussed this for so long?
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25905	Mr Schandor is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25927	Mr President. Federal Minister! My dear colleagues! Values listeners and listeners! The disunity between school autonomous days often led to difficult care situations for parents. Mr Hofinger has already said that since the 1980s, we have been discussing in Austria quite controversially whether autumn holidays are justified or not. Now it's ready: We create clarity with this law and will introduce autumn holidays throughout the country with the school year 2020/2021. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we join a group of 20 European countries that have had autumn holidays for many years. We're a little back there. Nevertheless, I find this regulation particularly important for families, because this uniform regulation leads to better planning and compatibility of family, school and profession. I say this not only as a politician, but also as a family father. I have two school-based sons, one is in the gymnasium, the other is in the folk school in the same city, and also in the small town of Principality it is not possible to bring together the school autonomous days. [[Abg. Wöger: Really? That's a circus!]] That is quite a problem. It is even more interesting if a child is taught in another federal state or goes to school there. This makes things even more exciting, because then you can really put that very hard under a hat. I therefore welcome this regulation and would like to thank the government partner ÖVP very warmly, but also all the others who are taking part in this decision today. I think this is a successful shoulder closure. The objective we are pursuing here is to further optimize the time structure of the school year. We also want to improve the conditions of care in the sense of the parents and those entitled to care, especially in non-educational periods. Mr Fässmann has also announced in the Committee that he will ensure the necessary framework conditions. – We welcome that! I consider the law to be a successful law in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e25967	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 595 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. The request was adopted unanimously. I shall come to the third reading immediately. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request at third reading too, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hammerschmid, colleagues, on 'Surveillance of childcare services in autumn holidays'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, rejected. [[21:26:30]] 7. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (596, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a federal law on the establishment of an Institute of Quality Assurance in the Austrian Schools and the integration of the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of Austrian Schools and amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of Austrian Schools (614 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26026	We come to item 7 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kucharovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26053	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I am perhaps the first speaker to outline this law or the law matter a little. What is it about? – In 2008, the National Council created a Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of Education, short bifie. The role of the bifie is applied education research, education monitoring, national education reporting, information and advice. All scientists and educators of the Institute are entrusted with a wide range of projects and work comprehensively in the schools. They are thus available to education policy and school administration on analytical issues and on issues relating to the development of education. There are also many very evidence-based data available to the public through the baby. That was the goal at the time. With this draft law, the baby, which has so far been externally and independently, is to become a downstream service of the ministry. A new Institute of Quality Assurance is to be created. They argue that the infrastructure for scientific quality assurance in the school sector, as well as the expertise of employees, can be used more effectively by the school administration through this measure. Minister, I ask you: On what basis is this knowledge based? - You didn't do it. There is no basis for this either. [[Interference of Federal Minister Fässmann.]] We believe that it is rather because you simply want to have more control over the institute, and above all by that, and I would like to stress this explicitly at this point that the service and professional supervision of the new institute should be in the ministry. The task planning is also to be done by the department: everything under the control of the ministry! [[Abg. Hauser: Will be right!]] I ask you: What are you afraid of that way of extending control? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It smells, dear colleagues, very, very, very, very after another jigsaw part of Message Control. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Yes, yes!]] [[Abg. New builder: Fear of death has also died!]] They want control of science and its results, keyword Statistics Austria. They took it. But that's not possible in a democracy. That's extremely dangerous, and it's not together – honestly! Mr. Fässmann, you're a scientist, you were Vice-Ektor. Imagine that the rectorate would have decided at that time where and what you could research for! What would you have said? Why are you playing this law? That's what I'm asking you at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Control over institutes, results and reports from institutes means not allowing any undesired opinions to be allowed, and that means that it seems to be difficult to deal with democracy and to restrict it. That is very, very problematic. That's where the alarm bells shriek. We experience this here in the house more often: If Members are not of the opinion of the government groups, they are inaccurate if a discourse is not to take place, there is simply no committee, and if journalistic questions do not fit, then journalists are insulted. [[Abg. Deimek: Of course, it must have happened that a journalist has insulted a politician!]] And if now any results of science do not match, you simply relinquish them and put them under supervision. We certainly do not agree with this law: a clear one No to restrict democracy, a clear no to control science and a clear no to message control! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26151	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26172	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the transmission devices! It is a transfer of a body of public law, called in short form Bifie, to a secondary department of the Ministry of Education – before the Ministry of Education, after the Ministry of Education. It is actually an administrative measure that is dust-drying, and I am really amazed at what arguments are not accepted here. Dear colleague Kucharovich, how many university institutes and educational universities are there in Austria that can conduct independent research? They are concerned about an institution which, as a public law body, has carried out several tasks with the Executive Board and Supervisory Board, provided by the Ministry of Education. Part of this bifie – the one that launched the central matura with some turbulence – was also brought back to the ministry in 2017. So it's not really something new in itself. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors has clearly supported this legislative initiative because in many of the Court's audits, it has found that the baby, with its staff status and budget planning, has gone beyond the target, and some of the follow-up checks have been necessary in order to bring the baby back to the right path. So resources are used more efficiently, the output is increased, and synergies are increased in conjunction with the individual departments of the ministry. This is also understandable and therefore also useful. The data collection with which this IQS, the Institute for Quality Assurance in Schools, is assigned, or the data collected must be close to the education control so that they can actually be used properly and not serve to support their own ideological opinions. The difference to the previous system is that the much-trapped discussion on evidence-based education control is now being brought to a different conclusion. I come back to the discussion about violence in schools: One hears now only the call for the fire brigade and for fire extinguishers and overlooks that the preventive fire protection has not yet been caught in the eye. The objective data collection, which can then really be used in education control, is about collecting exactly the data that we can actually avoid these problems and get solutions on the way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, Mr Fäsmann, the Minister of Education, as a scientist, is an undisputed Koryphae, and here in view of the fact that education policy is now carried out by means of false or methodologically incorrect data, I think it is a strong piece. On the other hand, a scientific advisory board is also installed, which is also internationally occupied, which also methodically and objectively evaluates and controls the research work. So I'm not worried that we're going to have problems in any way that lead us to a bad path. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to agree. The clocks of education policy are now going exactly. They tick something else, but they certainly do not follow, and a disapproval would really not be understandable.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26226	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26248	Mr President. High house! Valuable Minister! Mr Rosenberger, you just mentioned the data leak in the bifie. They are aware that one of the two then managing directors in the bifie is now the Secretary-General in the ministry. So it's very exciting how you mix things here and then promote those in your ministry – but that's your own point. The topic of Bifie and Conversion to IQS: In principle, I believe that this – and I have already said in committee – is a matter of bringing quality assurance into the Minister's sphere of influence. They are bringing the service and professional supervision to your place of business, and thus the full access to this institution is possible. This is dangerous, unacceptable from my point of view and also technically wrong and cannot, of course, be supported by us. That's exactly the wrong way. What we need rather is, I believe, an external, independent and critical institution that operates genuine quality assurance, which really collects data in terms of school quality and, accordingly, promotes and transmits school quality. If you look at the overall picture of what has happened in your place of business in recent months, Mr. Minister, then it seems quite dangerous. I have drawn out three points on which one sees that things simply don't fit together, that you intervene massively in your ministry and that will have quite massive consequences in the long term: The first thing you've done is that you've made a massive change in the Federal Ministry. They exchanged a total of eleven executives, four of which were section heads, the other group leaders or department heads. This is particularly worrying in the context of the You have managed to put your chief of the cabinet into a dual function, namely to make him the group leader for general education, and to create a mixture of political work on the one hand with the responsibilities on the other, which I consider to be dangerous and worrying. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But there could be another interpretation for this whole process, when you look at where your chief of the cabinet comes from: He was once in the cabinet of Chancellor Kurz and is a close confidant of the Federal Chancellor. So one might also assume that the Federal Chancellor probably does not trust you and, accordingly, tries to be as firmly anchored in your ministry as possible as further action. The second measure you've taken is that you abolished the baby. I have already said that I consider this to be extremely negligent and without responsibility because it is important to have external quality assurance. The third thing you did: They abolished the review of education standards. This is already a very special sugar, because with it you have the opportunity to get a systematic feedback to the schools about the level of performance on the spot, abolished and, accordingly, there is no longer any way to compare or get information about the level of performance at a school. Although you have introduced the individual competence and potential measurement, iKPM, it is absolutely unclear how you want to achieve feedback to the school system. You have – and this is what I find, the highlight of the whole story – answered in a question to us a few weeks ago when we asked, until when and in what form – this remains unclear – you want these feedbacks: ‘The first system report shall take place at the earliest of three years after the comprehensive introduction of the iKPM.’ That is to say, at the earliest of 2024/2025, you want to have another evaluation carried out, and any action that this Federal Government is going to take will no longer be subject to review. Her entire term of office as Minister is no longer shown We cannot assess the measures in any form. It follows that in future you – or your successor, whoever – can order these quality assurances from the in-house institute, so to speak, and say what you want inside and how to proceed there. I think this is an extremely worrying and dangerous starting point and would ask you to be careful that you do not create structures – and you create de facto authoritarian structures in your ministry – which will mean that your own measures can no longer be reviewed because the medium-term and long-term disaster will be a real disaster for the Austrian school system.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26317	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26338	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For us, it is fatal for me to ignore Court of Auditors reports on the baby. I have this feeling at the NEOS and at the SPÖ. The Court of Auditors reports are truly always praised here in the House, and they are thanked for their implementation every time. I can't remember anyone standing up in the House once saying that the report was bad. This Court of Auditors report has also been praised. I have the feeling that the report has not arrived at the SPÖ and the NEOS, and that is the fatale; we have to respond to a negative Court of Auditors report. If the Court of Auditors' criticism is raised, the following has been found: The baby has too much budget, too much staff, too little control and too little efficiency. The Court of Auditors has found that, by disseminating the bifie from the ministry, the expected efficiency increase has not taken place, and has asked us as a Parliament to check whether integration is not better. And that's what we're doing here and today. It is grossly negligent if we simply ignore Court of Auditors reports. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Other criticisms of the Court of Auditors were: insufficient project control, the Executive Board was economically weak, the four-eye principle was not complied with and people in the family and economic close-up were employed. – Mr Trauttmansdorff, if one did not respond to these conditions and to this report, that would be really fatal. So what are we afraid of? Here it is clear that the four-eye principle has not even been respected. And the double structures, which were built by being an outside of the bifie in Vienna and the other in Salzburg, are red and black in proportion – that's what I'm talking about. That is why it is high time to implement these proposals by the Court of Auditors, to include the baby and to make them the Institute for Quality Assurance. What are you afraid of? The methodical independence for data collection remains, which is set out in the legislative text. There will continue to be an internationally-occupied scientific advisory board, and the data now passed on to the ministry itself, the house itself. The Minister also said in the Committee that the data whose collection costs a lot of money will not be passed on. In the future, these data will be given to universities, educational universities and so on, and that is crucial. You can't do it with a lot. Efforts to collect data and then stay on the data and do not pass it on; that is not possible. In the future, the department is responsible and responsible for budgeting, and the staff is also a part of the ministry. That's good. We are implementing the Court of Auditors' recommendation with this decision today, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26393	Mrs Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26414	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! This law is an essential step towards a high-quality further development of school quality by 1st reading. This new Quality Assurance Institute will be created on July 2020. The existing bifie, the Bundesinstitut für Bildungsforschung, Innovation und Entwicklung, is integrated into this newly created institute and is therefore directly subordinated to you, Mr. Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! We are making evidence-based education policy, because we want excellent schools, and we want to develop them further. We want less ideology in education, but more facts. A meaningful and successful school development requires national and international performance measurements, a meaningful school development needs a practical use of the data collected, and a meaningful school development also needs a further development of the standardized examinations of the level of learning. Ladies and gentlemen, these surveys serve to ensure quality, and this is also returned to schools. They offer teachers the possibility that they can look individually, individually tailored to the student, where funding needs are available and where support measures can be used. Mrs Hammerschmid's not here now. She's always been in the delegation today, it'd never be differentiated inside. That's not true. I am in school every week, and I know schools not only from school visits, but I teach myself and know what my colleagues do every day – and they do really great. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If there are considerations here that scientificly enough work cannot be done, ladies and gentlemen, then I remember – that has already been mentioned – that there will be a scientific advisory board. I don't think it's possible to suggest to some scientist that he's being whispered by some sort of thing, because these work really well, you can be sure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also ensure the efficient and transparent use of the resources to be ensured by the close commitment to the ministry. Finally, allow me to say – especially as a Salzburgian – that I am very pleased that the Bifie external office in Salzburg will be preserved. There are 140 employees who are now being transferred to this new institute, and this is also a very important location for us in Salzburg. It is also a sign of the regionalisation of public institutions, and I thank you very much, Mr. Minister, you made this possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26474	Mr Schandor is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26496	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers that we want to implement a recommendation from the Court of Auditors. We want to comply with the recommendation to set up an administrative organisational measure, and compared to the bifie, which was founded in 2008, this new institute is expected to have a slimmer structure. Scientific and human resources of the bifie as well as the competences will be at this new Institute of Quality Assurance at 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The aim is to ensure that data from the performance measurement at schools directly benefit from education policy and thus improve evidence-based quality development in education and resource efficiency in education management. Of course, a few points have already been mentioned. I don't want to go into the pans that happened in the baby in the Central Matura. There have also been appropriate reactions here, at the time by you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] Among other things, in 2017, a part of the bifie, which was just about the central matura, was distributed and integrated into the ministry. I have to say: The purpose we pursue is evidence-based quality assurance. We want to link this area more closely to the school administration. We therefore want to strengthen quality development in the Austrian school system and see an increase in efficiency in the collection and use of the data. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26530	Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26552	Mrs Kucharovich! Skepticism is always good, and you are perfectly right to be skeptical. Before we did this thing with Bifie and IQS, I asked myself how it was then, 2008. I have not personally experienced it, I can only understand what has been said to me. [[Abg. Noll: You're not that young either, Mr. Minister.]] At that time one founded the bifie, but not as a basic research institute, such as the Austrian Academy of Sciences – which should be independent as a basic research institute – but as an institute that has always had very specific tasks for the Ministry. It used to be the central matura, then they took it away from the baby. However, it was always a clearly assigned institution to the Ministry, which also received the contracts from the Ministry. The financing: Although the bifie could have obtained more money on the third medium market, it was financed almost 100 percent from the Ministry's funds, not like the Academy of Sciences, which deserves a lot on the third medium market because it is an independent institution. The bifie was, in fact, organisationally independent, but clearly a service provider for the ministry; a classical hybrid structure which the Court of Auditors rightly criticized. This hybrid structure is now being changed. Of course one could have completely released the baby and said: Get your money on the third-party market!, but that wouldn't have been in the sense of a evidence-oriented education policy. I'm not a centralization fanatic. At other institutes I go the reverse way, such as at the Geological Bundesanstalt, a secondary department, which now, as it were, is getting its independence, because it has much stronger to move, if you like, into the free academic market. The intake of the baby as an IQS has a clear functionality, which is to allow good data to be fed into the education system as quickly as possible. I'd look at this as normal. The scientific independence, which has already been pointed out, is established by law and is not changed by me in any way. Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, your statement was a little deep if you allow me to classify it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] If you now put a massive coloration under me, then you clearly imply that there has already been a coloring. [[Call the NEOS:Genau! Right!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That doesn't make it better!]] [[Abg. Loacker: Mom, the others also have a five!]] I'm quite surprised about that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The things you have listed are things that have developed because contracts have expired or some have retired, whose posts have been re-occupied. There is a selection committee composed of members of the employer, workers and the working group on equal treatment issues. I'm not getting involved. At the end of the path, I get a list of three, just as it is usual at the university, and I have never crashed the list of three. Now that I have a coloration here, it is an undertone that I really reject. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Also, your second construction that a cabinet leader should not be group leader, in this case interim group leader, is not understandable to me. This is an institution of the ministry and these are not two different institutions. All employees are members of the ministry, and if an interimist takes over another function, I don't know what the problem is. A third point on the question of education standards: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, please take a closer look at this. So far, the education standards have been raised every three years. We now raise them every year, but only one third of the total. The overall population is so large that one can easily form a third sample to know each year about the education standards, because the sample, which covers about 25 000, 30 000 subjects, is so large that it no longer has any variation. You've made me think I don't want to know. The truth is, I want to know it more precisely, and that every year, and that's why the change has occurred. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Overall, this transformation of a hybrid institution, Bifie, into an institution that, while guaranteeing the legally established scientific independence, has received a clear mandate, is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26663	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26684	Mr. President! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What happens formally? What are the tasks of the institution? What consequences can we expect from it? Why do I think there is a real reason to bring in new momentum? Finally, a hopeful wish comes from my side. What's happening? – The bifie, the Federal Institute for Education Research, Innovation and Development of Austrian Schools, is now being brought closer to the Ministry, and is merged with the there quality assurance institutions in the new IQS. So far, the baby has had to carry out mainly tasks for which the Ministry has held responsibility. It is only legitimate that the Ministry should also have a corresponding design option. This is once the formal aspect of it. Because of the tasks they are there – performance and competence measurement both at the individual and at the collective level – this is something that is entirely, very important for the further control of our education system. What are the consequences of this reorientation? – On the one hand, a certain reduction in the structures, but also a closer look at the institution and, in particular, the expected results for the school administration and, on the other hand, on school reality. Finally, we can also expect the flow of information from scientific achievements to universities and educational universities, both in schools and outside, to be strengthened and accelerated, thereby enabling things to be implemented better and faster. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why do we believe that new momentum is just right in this area? – It has been very reformed in school in the last decades, very much changed. I worked for ten years in the parent office, and I know how teaching has developed heavily through very dedicated educators and educators. Let us look at the results: A significant proportion of young people, an appalling percentage cannot read meaningfully. Since it is actually legitimate, actually our duty to consider: Let's turn on the right parking screws? Are we turning in the right direction? Have we turned too far or do we have to take further steps somewhere? Just these questions are now evidence-based and hopefully also to answer them in a final way. My hopeful wish to conclude is that this newly created institution, which is at the same time also a scientific institution under the Research Organisation Act, will succeed in bringing together the expertise of science, the concrete facts from the concrete studies and, please, the experience of our educators from the practice, that the findings derived from this cooperation will really also be implemented in the interest of our children and young people in the school system. That's what I'm very optimistic about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26737	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the reporting wish to have a final word? [[Abg. Wöginger: No!]] - That's not the case. Then we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 596 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We'll come to the third reading. If, in turn, you agree with this draft law, I ask him to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:00:53]] 8. Point report by the Committee on Education on amendment 723/A by Mr MMMag. Gertraud Salzmann, Wendelin Mölzer, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Landeslehrer Service Law and the State Contracting Teaching Law 1966 (615 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26786	We come to Agenda item 8. There was no oral reporting. Mr Preiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26818	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The present amendments to the Landeslehrer Service Law could almost be approved at the first moment. These changes concern educators who have graduated from a university teaching course according to old study regulations, are in the old service law and are teaching at the New Secondary Schools. However, the abolition of the team coaching decided by the majority of the government in the House would not allow further employment of this group under the new conditions, except with a special contract, as we know. Circa 1 500 pedagogues are affected by this. Now, ladies and gentlemen, by abolishing this team coaching that I mentioned earlier in the field of the new middle school, the government operates, you, Mr Minister, in my opinion, run a perfid game with these educators or also with the students concerned and their parents. Mrs Salzmann referred to the Committee meeting, I quote: The AHS standard form is also introduced at the secondary school. - Quote. I ask you now, Mrs Salzmann: Does this mean, for example, that for the KEL talks, which are now mandatory for the secondary school, and which I approve, this commitment will be eliminated, or that the commitment to KEL talks will also come at the AHS lower level, for the children and their parents there? I have two further questions to you, Mr Minister: If the plans of these 1,500 colleagues continue to exist after the innovation that will be decided by majority of governments today, will these 1,500 planning posts continue to be paid by the federal government? The second question: There are colleagues who have started a university teaching programme within the framework of the old study regulations, but who do not complete this study. have been teaching NMS for years. Will they continue to find employment as they have already gained good educational experience? Another criticism on our part is that the majority of the government in the committee has introduced the amendment amendment to the Law on State Teachers' Service Law by means of an own-initiative proposal. In my opinion, this is a mistake, a political mistake, because there is a lack of assessment by the countries and there has been no corresponding opinion from the social partners. The trade union and the educators concerned were not heard either. I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen: This novelle is in itself unforgivable and does not correspond to our concept of democracy. From this point of view, unfortunately, we cannot give our approval to this new law. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26866	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26888	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Preiner, as a service rights officer, I cannot now correct any in-depth wrong approach you have put forward. [[Abg. Vogl: That was a great speech!]] Unfortunately, I don't have the time to do that. But I'm going to deal with a lot of things anyway. As a service judge, it is really a pleasure for me to submit this initiative proposal. Why, ladies and gentlemen? . We are in favour of further practical adjustment, which meets the requirements in schools. What does that mean? – For a long time, we had two tracks in teaching: university teaching with the Magisterium in two subjects of teaching, and in parallel the second track, the education at the educational universities, which specifically aims at the use in the New Secondary Schools, in polytechnic courses and in folk schools. The Department of Education at the University is only trained for the Higher Schools. So, and now we have the problem that many young teachers in the AHS and BHS sectors are not currently accommodated; that is, they are unemployed. Mr Preiner, I do not know what you think if we now give these young people the opportunity to enter employment, because we do so with this change of law. We are going here and saying that these highly qualified young ladies and gentlemen, who would like to teach very, very much, we now also recognise the legal provision of teaching for the New Middle School and for the Polytechnic course. These are highly qualified young ladies and gentlemen. That's what we do! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Preiner, you also referred to the team coaching: If you knew exactly the legislative text, you would also need to know that this team coaching is not generally abolished, but is passed on to school autonomy – whether you are individuating or not. Read the text of the law! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We want these young colleagues not to be hired with special contracts, but we want them to have regular employment in the NMS, because a special agreement is a clear disadvantage. The fact that you are not going away from the SPÖ is completely incomprehensible to me. A special contract means that these young colleagues only after ten years of service, ladies and gentlemen – after ten years of service! – can obtain an indefinite contract. The other colleagues will have him at the latest after five years. I am not yet talking about the young mothers who have had children in these ten years and for whom it is almost impossible to get back there. Think of it as SPÖ! The second point: We have in the coming years, you have addressed it, in the New Secondary Schools a relatively strong wave of retirement. We cannot fill these posts with the NMS teachers. We have highly qualified staff there, and therefore it is natural and clear to us – as they are really highly qualified – that they are able to cope with the shortage of staff with these young teachers. You don't have to go to the NMS, you can do that. Mrs Hammerschmid, if you in the committee are talking about this as a disadvantage, a disadvantage, I wonder who introduced the scheme. – These were the red ministers in the educational resort. And yes, pd is a bad situation for an AHS and BHS teacher, unfortunately. So we want the well-trained teachers in our schools, and we don't want these young teachers standing on the street. That's a very clear goal from us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] At the end of my speech, I would like to address a very essential issue that has really moved me very, very much in the last two weeks. It is known all over the world: Psychiatric and physical violence must have no place in our schools. This requires a very clear commitment from all of us. A behavior that harasss and detests others must not be accepted; whether it is between students or whether it is between students and teachers. We want, and that is quite clear, to protect teachers and students and to enable a constructive learning atmosphere. Above all, we also want successful education to be ensured. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I believe it is now really time for our teachers in Austria, who are in the school classes every day – and who are facing major challenges in the heterogeneous classes – to return to much more appreciation and much more confidence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Education, ladies and gentlemen, is not only the task of the school, but also, above all, of families and society. There is now a need for a practical package of measures – and the Minister has already taken a lot of action in this area. I would like to express my express thanks to you, Mr Minister, for you are looking at these problems. It is not, as in the years before, looked away, but you look back and forth. They act quickly and target-orientedly. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true at all!]] And the nice thing about it is that you bind the professionals out of practice, from the schools with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26969	Mr Fässmann is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e26990	Mr Preiner! – Mr Preiner! [[Abg. Preiner talks to Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Is he supposed to get out?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Mr Preiner, you have asked two questions, I can give you the answers. The one is: Are the planning posts then paid out of the state teacher's quota? – Yes, that’s what the system is all about; financial compensation, quite clearly. And the second question: Are teaching students who have not completed and are currently working on a special contract still being employed? - Yeah, they're going to work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27045	Mr Zarits is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Abg. Jarolim: The colleague fears that behind the matter of the house mind...!]] – You can speak, Mr Jarolim. You're free, it's still enough time for your speech. [[Abg. Lausch: He has nothing to say!]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] Please, Mr Zarits.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27095	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have today very, very much debated education, also included different opinions. I believe that what is common to us is that we all want the best that our children, our young people, are well trained and that they are also well prepared for the challenges of the future. For our part, we need a good education system, which provides core competence on the one hand. It is important for us to promote talents, balance deficits. I think we will then prepare the pupils for higher education, for higher schools or for the modern working world. It is quite, very important that I also thank the Minister today for his consistent approach to issues. It has been implemented in the last 18 months very, very much in the field of education. Today, such important decisions as autumn holidays have been taken, as has the ban on the headscarve. And the package of measures against violence and mobbing that you have presented is, I believe, the important and right step towards prevention. I should like to congratulate you very warmly, as well as the German funding classes that have been addressed today. I think it's important that we teach children German, then they can also integrate. I can tell you that I am a lot in my constituency, and people are sure that because of your very, very quiet and competent nature, education in Austria in your hands is very, very well removed. - Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Preiner had the wrong thing today that he spoke before Mr Salzmann, because he actually explained to him what it is supposed to be like in the future: that we do not need special contracts, that we do not need special contracts for teachers who have also studied at universities, but that we want to set up regular contracts. I think that's important and right. The SPÖ stands for special contracts, and they are at the disadvantage of teachers, who are limited in time. [[Abg. Preiner: This is a submission, Mr President!]] We stand for unlimited teaching contracts for young teachers. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I don't think anyone understands, except perhaps SPÖ, why a teacher who has studied at a university should teach at a higher school, for a higher educational institution, not regularly and without a special contract at a compulsory school, at a secondary school. We are now making this clear with the proposal for an initiative. We ensure that we also meet the challenges of compulsory schooling, that there is an improvement for teachers, and that is why I ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27144	There is still an actual correction by Mr Preiner. - Please, I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27179	Mr President. Minister! It was claimed by the previous speaker that the SPÖ stood for special contracts. – I’m actually correcting: I did not say that, therefore, this claim is false.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27212	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. Then we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 615 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with the draft law to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. I shall come to the third reading immediately. Whoever agrees again, I ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:1629]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 708/A(E) by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues on ‘Modern sex pedagogy in school!’ (616 p.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 755/A(E) by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on women*Volksbehren 2.0 – Awareness-raising programmes on the protection of violence and anti-violence training (617 p.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Education on the proposal from Members Mario Lindner, colleagues on women*Volksbehren 2.0 – Ensuring and financing sexual education (618 d.e.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27292	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27331	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I must congratulate you, you have made the work credit of this Federal Government perfect: Ignore problems, if necessary announce solutions, and in the end just sit everything out. The entire Causa Teenstar proves this very well. To remember: Since June 2018, for eleven months, we discuss the workshops of this association at schools; Workshops in which, according to internal training documents, massively problematic content is propagated: no sex before marriage, change of sexual orientation by mental care and therapy. International studies show that the risk of suicide is four to eight times higher than the average for homosexual and bisexual adolescents. All this has not lost anything in our schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is to promote the self-confident handling of sexuality. But what are you doing as Minister of Education? Quickly provide for information, consequences? - No, you ignore, cancel, and sit out. You haven't delivered any solutions in 11 months. In June, the “Salzburger Nachrichten” reported that you announced a reporting obligation for external workshops in schools. - Then nothing happens for a long time. In November, the “Falter” reported, and suddenly you announce new clearing sites. – Of course, no details are available. There will be a decision on the Teenstar club until December. - And nothing happened again. In March you went to the “ZIB 2” and spoke of a misunderstanding with the documents of the association. – Only for clarification: The alleged obsolete documents date back to 2017; Mainly, you can take care of this. Shortly thereafter, the “ZIB 2” again dealt with this issue. What's going on? – A brand new announcement, suddenly there will be a new accreditation procedure for external providers. – Of course, without details. At the beginning of April, the highlight is a lot of media pressure, a lot of newspaper reports, and you want to ban these school workshops. – But once again, nothing remains of the announcement, because your Members simply reject our request for your promise. Today we are standing here – and after almost a year of discussion, after countless parliamentary questions and media reports, open letters and promises, exactly no consequence has happened to this day. Although they have announced clearing points, reporting obligations and an accreditation board, details, structures, schedules or even resources are not available for this purpose. If a student is a student at our schools/year of school as planlessly disputed as she is a minister, then the post-zipf is fixed. A student cannot afford to only announce and promise for a year, but to ignore any schoolwork. You should take that as an example. Instead of announcing new structures every two months, you should finally act, Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For all of us, it must be clear that such medieval practices in our schools have not lost anything. – Mr Minister, sit down, five!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27389	Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are speaking on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27410	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! Mr Lindner, I believe that you are very emotionally concerned about this issue, but I do not think it is all right to speak here of announcements, opinions and unplannedness, because the opposite is the case, and I would like to address this subject briefly. [[Abg. Lindner: Right!]] Today, we have two applications for sexual education in school and a request for violence on the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen! § 17 of the School Education Act regulates competence for teaching and education work. Responsible for this task is the only teacher in the class. And I think that's the right thing to do. We train our teachers and support them where they go so that they can carry out the tasks well. Ladies and gentlemen, our teachers learn their job for years, complete a degree and attend ongoing training courses. They are aware that they have to carry out their tasks to comply with the curriculum and events. There is a very clear system in the curriculum and in the openings, which is to be taught. Mr Lindner explained this only on the basis of the one company Teenstar. It is true that many providers are constantly approaching schools every day, and it is then up to the decision-making capacity of the teacher, the headmaster, the school community committee to consider whether it is okay. And the people who teach have to comply with laws. It is true that a number of measures have been taken, first in the newsletter which came out in March. We have the topic of clearing bodies in the education departments, in the higher-level bodies, which are taking part. We have the principle of sexual pedagogy here. – Mr Lindner, please, on page 4, I would like to put paragraph 2 very much to your heart, and the teachers stick to it. There is a principle of reflexive gender education and equality. There's a lot of things going on in school. A principle for the further development of the curriculum, for continuing, continuing and continuing education in the field of sexual education is also in preparation. We still have a request on the subject of violence, and in the current case of Ottakring we can address a lot of things clearly. There's only one clear message here: Zero tolerance in violence at schools! There has been a comprehensive initiative to prevent violence in schools since 2007. You have to work – and I want to stress that – consistently on the subject. Mrs. Spiel also mentioned this in a discussion round, I think it was this week or last week: consistently working on the subject. I think that consistency is also something to be very strongly addressed in this area. I remember when I came to a school as a young teacher and the principal said to me, At this school we are all responsible for the school climate, starting from the headmaster to the cleaning power! – I am convinced that if everyone feels responsible for this and supports each other, it will be successful. I am also very pleased with the nine-point programme presented by the Minister last week, which also includes many points and measures in the field of violence prevention. We do not need quick shots in the field of education, but we need well thought-out measures for a successful school.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27453	Member of the Cox Committee has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27479	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spectators! Homosexuality is an identity problem that can be cured “often by a combination of therapy, special self-help groups and trained soul care”. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible!]] My relativeity and low self-esteem are possible consequences of self-satisfaction. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible!]] Sex before marriage should be rejected in principle. And at all: “If you love yourselves so much, why don’t you marry the same? If not, why do you have sexual intercourse?" – These were three quotations. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scherak]] – Yes, I rather come crying to be honest; but yes, in some moments I also wonder if I should laugh or cry. These are three quotations from Teenstar's training documents. This is the arch Catholic organization, which is still teaching as a sex pedagogical association at our schools, the organization that I, together with my colleagues from the National Council, have not only questioned for months, but - you can almost say - have fought the organization, which Mr Fäsmann disapproves of. But it is so, in 2019, ladies and gentlemen, some of our children still get taught that self-satisfaction makes egoistic and that homosexuality is curable. A country in which such a thing is possible must finally take sexual pedagogy seriously. It must not happen that children and adolescents are exposed to such sexist and homophobic theses. We need a modern and enlightened sex pedagogy in the curriculums of Austria's schools. [[Congratulations with JETZT and NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] No, this is not utopian, nor is it illusory, because in many countries it is already possible and lived practice. In Scotland, for example, LGTIQ topics are now firmly on the curriculum – in Austria it is largely still theory. Why not implement the principle of sexual pedagogy? What about the principle of Reflexive Gender Education and Equality from 2018? What about my request for gender-sensitive pedagogy that I have filed? That is exactly what we need to deal with, and that is exactly what we need to do to ensure that sexual pedagogy arrives in Austria in 2019. [[Congratulations with JETZT and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we want to see our children grow up to be maimed, enlightened and self-confident, we finally have to make the theory practical and take money into our hands for it. This is not only me, but also the women's desire from the outset calls for the anchoring and financing of contemporary education on the issues of sexuality, prevention and pregnancy. On the other hand, 13 sexual pedagogical associations, institutes and departments of Minister Fäsmann, in an open letter that you have probably already seen, demand more money for the professionalization of sexual education in Austria's schools. [[towards Minister Fässmann]] They also call for the involvement of sexual pedagogical expertise in the development of quality criteria and new forms of control. In the open letter one reads the following, and it is very important to emphasize this point: “ Professional skills include social skills, which cannot be prescribed in a criteria catalogue, but which must be learned in practice as a sex educator and pedagogist. This takes time and money, which is why the “sexual pedagogical “unifications and experts demand more money for further education, supervision and research.” A general dramatization and taboo of sexuality “is not targeting. ” Minister Fässmann, you have the unique opportunity to take the Causa Teenstar, the women's people's desire and Zig thousands of activists and the sexual education platform seriously, and not only to deal seriously with these issues, but, as I believe, to raise this issue, which is so important to the year 2019. Make Austria a showland for contemporary and enlightened sex pedagogy!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27551	Mrs Mühlberghuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27573	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners and listeners at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! I would like to point out, Mr Lindner, that, as regards the content of the principle of sex education, the first step has already been taken to ensure implementation and cooperation with non-school organisations in the field of sex education, since, in principle, the teacher is “to fulfil the task of the Austrian school in independent and responsible teaching and educational work”. In the course of the preparation of curriculum 2020, it will be included in the field of cross-border competence development, where teaching principles will be strengthened and competence objectives at school level will also be presented in cross-border topics. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: cross-border!]] The individual teachers are free to teach whether they involve non-school people or organisations in teaching; However, this involvement requires that the preparation and consolidation of the teaching material be carried out in the required quality and also corresponds to the legal basis. I hope that teachers who, with human understanding and their accurate knowledge, expand the knowledge of the children and cover this sensitive area themselves – that is, not to pass on the teaching to strangers, because sexuality concerns our innermost human being. It is a part of ourselves and integrated into our person. [[Abg. Lindner: Have you ever talked to experts? Ever?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] With the principle of sexual pedagogy, the state has access to sexual education, and, Mr Lindner, it needs ethical principles, humane conditions and, of course, the purely factual-biological knowledge transfer and no ideological reeducation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27627	Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27648	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to go to TOP 10 and TOP 11. These are applications on women's people's desires, which have already been discussed here in the House. We have, however, given the government parties a second chance to think about and reflect on these truly modern and meaningful demands, and, Mrs Schimanek, if you are so committed to women's rights, perhaps you could go along with these two requests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call:Genau]] The issue of awareness-raising programmes in the field of violence – we heard about Ottakring before – is a real urgent problem. In our opinion, time-out classes cannot be the solution. We do not want children to be segregated and locked away, as the Federal Government already prefers to the German classes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It needs sustainable solutions. In the short term, avoiding children is not a sustainable solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] In addition, the whole issue may still be linked to family benefits, the problem actually only heightens to the groundless. We really need to equip schools with sufficient personnel and resources – psychologists, social workers – because saving in the system in schools is absolutely wrong. Our answer, the answer of social democracy, is: 100 psychologists more at schools in Austria and the further expansion of peer mediation programs by students for students. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In the spirit of women's desire, we call on the government to step up the awareness-raising programmes on violence protection across the board. A second point is also important – it has been mentioned a little earlier –: It is finally time to address sex pedagogy honestly and openly. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] We really need a positive access to sexuality and above all a real one. It is no longer contemporary: Light off, blanket over it, best to see the eyes, bees, flowers – please excuse me, come in 21. By the 19th century! It's inconceivable! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] If you follow the speeches of some of the colleagues here, I feel as if it were the case with the three well-known offices: hear nothing, see nothing, say nothing! – But that is really not the reality on the subject! We must finally inform our young people about sexuality, contraception and abortion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] We stand for an open dialogue, not a backlash, as so many petitions demand. We say: no millimeters when it comes to abortion! [[Abg. Steinacker:... pregnancy!]] My body, my choice! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ and on the Deputies of JETZT.]] In the field of education, the main requirements are as follows: First of all, a comprehensive range of education on the subject of sexuality, prevention, abortion in schools is to be implemented. Secondly, The financing of responsible external providers and advisory bodies shall be ensured. Moreover, it is crucial that the content presented is really in line with the principle of sexual pedagogicalism – we have already been presented before. In the end, I can only tell you one more thing: Let's talk about sex! Let's get away from bees and flowers and finally into the 21st century. The 20th century of sexual pedagogy!
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27746	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. [[Unrest in the hall.]] - I'm allowed to ask for a little rest. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 616 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to Agenda item 10: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 617 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a corresponding sign. – In turn, this is the majority, and with this the request has been accepted. I come to the vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Agenda item 11: Request by the Committee of Education to take note of its report 618 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is also accepted. [[Abg. Jarolim: You can get back in the Middle Ages as quickly as you can!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: You are from the Middle Ages!]] [[Call:The Sharia...]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We are soon finished, I think we can carry this out at the speaker's desk, and we would ask that we now devote ourselves to Agenda item 12. [[22:40:22]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Education on Amendment No 677/A(E) by Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, colleagues in the field of media competence in adult education, on the establishment of a resilient society (619d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27844	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Member Kovacevic has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27871	Mr President. Minister! High house! This proposal is aimed at moving forward media education. As we have heard this afternoon in the discussion on the 2018 National Education Report, further measures and efforts are needed in the field of education, especially in the fields of digitalisation and media education. However, while there are at least a few proposals and one direction and the subject has already been discussed and discussed several times at parliamentary level, there are hardly any offers for adults so far to promote responsible and critical handling of media. This is certainly a good request, which will also receive our support. However, it is all the more surprising that the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ wish to reject this request. I wonder what the motivation behind that is. What are they afraid of in a rather harmless request as it is? – You could almost come to the idea that they do not want well-educated and critical voters in the population. Unfortunately, I cannot understand why there are already numerous initiatives and offers for adults, as we have heard from the Committee. I wonder which one that should be. Please tell us about this! In any case, it is not known that you have so far focused on the topic of media education for adults – I do not know, Minister, perhaps you can inform us here after that. In principle, the topic of media competence should therefore generally become a sustainable part of lifelong learning, for which we should all work together! – Thank you very much and good evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27908	Mrs Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27929	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! So we are talking here about the NEOS proposal on the sustainable anchoring of media competence in adult education. The aim is to achieve a well-formed society, which recognizes especially Fake News and Desinformation Campaigns. – That is, I think, a very loyal approach, but, dear NEOS, it would be even more plausible if you weren’t spreading fake news. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call:... the Federal Government]] I find it very sad in this context that you, Gerald, have said here on this pult a few hours ago that in the digital office of four applications only two work. That is, if I want to say it that way, a likely intentional untruth in order not to use the word lie, but it is, at least, fake news. But we've been used to this lately by NEOS. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger:... still,... if democracy is destabilised! ...!]] Now to the application itself: So the measures, Mr Kovacevic, which have already been taken, are, on the one hand, the expansion of the open-line course for adult education, in which digitisation and media competence are discussed, a training the trainer model, which, as I believe, makes sense, because it has a great multiplier effect, and on the other hand, the curriculum in basic education is further developed and concreteized. There, too, the topic of digitalization is included. In addition, there is also a measure which has been launched, not by the Ministry of Science or Education, but by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is the association Fit4Internet, whose aim is to concrete and strengthen digital skills for young people, older and active persons. There, too, the topic of digital media competence is being forced. So I think there are enough measures to be taken, and I think that this is why I think that writing a plan that employs some people in the ministry is, in my opinion, a bureaucracy that we do not need. This government stands for red tape, and therefore we have rejected the request in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e27980	Mr Loacker referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e28004	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Call:]] – It doesn’t seem like it: Oh, you! To give of itself when someone is called to the speaker's desk, but please. Mrs Niss has claimed that it would be Fake News if I said that there are two out of four applications in the Digital Office. I'm actually correcting: The four applications are that you can order a choice card that you can report the residence that you can report the child's birth and upload the passport. When ordering electoral cards, 600 out of 2 600 have disappeared in the area of the municipality of Vienna, and when reporting the residence, the minister has already had to admit that further corrections are being made and that post-programmes have to be carried out. [[Abg. Steinacker: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Deimek: That's not true!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e28078	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e28099	High house! Mr. Minister! I believe that what is important, Mrs Niss, is that we debate serious fake news here, and not a normal political discussion in which, as we all know, things are constantly being distorted – apart from the fact that Mr Loacker has clearly shown that he has said the truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] But that's not fake news about what it's all about: This is about democratic policies or about the dangers to democracy that they pose, and I do not think that is the case in this situation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In advance – it may be a somewhat strange praise that I am now expressing –: I am very glad that you did not delay this request, but rejected it because we can discuss this important issue here today. However, the rejection has been taken note of by a great deal of amazement by me, I must say. They have said in the Committee that a lot is happening in this area, and this has now been done by itself – and that is simply not true. Let us look at the website adult education.at, which is operated by the Ministry itself: There is a dossier on adult education, and on page 1 is the first sentence in this dossier: “Media competence in adult education is a topic that has been largely neglected in recent years.” – This is the best evidence that nothing happens. Let's keep looking: We have recently received a request response – to talk a little bit about the government's performance in this area. What's going on? – That there is a confusion of competence that the Federal Government itself does not know exactly what is happening, because it only grants funding, but cannot evaluate it, because it does not get the figures at all. – I am sorry about the Minister in this area, but it is so; You don't even know if enough happens because you don't have the numbers in the ministry at all. This is also clear from the answer to this question; I can show you afterwards. Let's look at the numbers! They have already praised the great measures that exist. The Adult Education Portal offers a course you have talked about. In 2017, there were 2,900 participants, 63 percent of whom had completed it; In 2018 it was 3,100 participants – yes, we have 200 more participants here – and 52 percent have completed it. In other words, the numbers of participants who complete it even fall. That's actually a disaster, what's happening there! The whole thing is a course that lasts six weeks, with a course of 18 hours – that is, nothing huge, where one would expect there to be massive drop-out quotas. They have addressed basic education. In the years 2015 to 2018, there has been a nice list of all federal states – all 260 training measures throughout Austria. And this is the big offensive we're talking about here? That's the way we want to prepare the adults for how they deal with fake news? - I think that's too little. Let's also take a financial look at this: There are almost no numbers, because the ministry simply does not have them, because it has no idea what is happening in this area. The only thing they say is that for “digital methods and resources”, this is one of those courses that are offered here, almost 76 000 euros were spent in 2018. 76,000 euros is invested by the Federal Ministry in that we can improve the handling of fake news so that adults can prepare for it. It's crazy how badly we're prepared for this topic, especially when we look at what's happening worldwide: The American elections were massively influenced by Fake News; in the meantime it is de facto proven that the Russians have already admitted that they have intervened there. A European election is on the doorstep, and everyone says nothing will happen. – So quite honestly, this is a piece of sham when you say nothing will happen. It can't be. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think it's dangerous, absurd and absurd when you come here and say it's more passionate in this area and it's all great. It is precisely the opposite, and we need to get to grips here quickly, because this is a highly relevant topic in society. That's why I still can't understand, and I really don't think so about you making yourself here and saying: We do so much in the field anyway, the topic is not relevant! It's probably only not relevant because it might harm you or your coalition partner in elections if you are not supported by whoever.
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e28178	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of its report 619 of the supplements. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This amendment was accepted. [[22:51:56]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2019-05-15-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00074_d7e28218	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 784/A(E) to 813/A. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 22.52 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
