ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00083_d7e615	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 83. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Thomas Drozda, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchsund Herbert Kickl. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00083_d7e651	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00083_d7e824	Amendment 912/A by Dr Zinggl, colleagues on the law on rent law, is allocated to the Committee on Buildings and Housing and not to the Committee on Justice, contrary to the written communication. And I'll show you what's going on. Amendment 922/A(E) by Mr Holzleitner, Dr Hammerschmid, colleagues on the “Small direct election of the national and federal student representation” to the Teaching Committee, Amendment 923/A by Mrs Krainer, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act, to the Financial Committee, motion 924/A by Mrs Griss, colleagues, on the amendment of the IPR legislation to the Justice Committee, Amendment 925/A(E) by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues in the Committee on Education, Education and the Media, on the financing of quality sexual education in schools. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00083_d7e871	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that the MEPs asked Wöginger and Hofer to report to the judicial committee on the government proposal concerning a federal law, with the the legal order and other laws are amended, 633 of the supplements, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. I also say that Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has requested that the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs report on the motion for a resolution 855/A(E) by Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on the evaluation of the Working Time Act, the Labour Peace Act and the General Social Security Act be subject to a period of time up to 1. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has asked the Committee on Family Affairs and Youth to report on the requests. 453/A(E) by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, on ‘National action plan to combat child poverty in Austria’; and 857/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Members of Parliament on family allowances law 1967 A period of one period to one. to be set up on July 2019. Furthermore, Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 183/A by Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on ‘a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research’. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mr Dr. Noll has asked the Constitutional Committee to report on the requests. 851/A by Dr. Noll, colleagues in the Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act, 632/A by Dr Noll, colleagues in the Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act; and 631/A by Mr Noll, Members of Parliament, on Information Freedom Act A period of one period to one. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mrs Cox has requested that the Financial Committee report on Amendment 445/A by Mr Cox, Mrs Cox, colleagues on the VAT Act 1994 be limited to 1 January 1994. to be set up on July 2019. I would also like to say that Mr Magistrate. Mr Rossmann asked the Committee on Economic, Industrial and Energy to report on the motion for a resolution 913/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues on “Reimprovement of the National Energy and Climate Plan [...] according to the findings of scientific research to achieve the Paris Climate Goals” a period of time to 1. to be set up on July 2019. I tell you, Mr Magistrate. Loacker asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the applications 919/A by Mr Magnette, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Loacker, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law which amends the Mother Protection Act, the Father's Care Act and the Land Labor Act; and 900/A of Deputies Mag. Loacker, Colleagues and Colleagues on Employees' Law A period of one period to one. to be set up on July 2019. Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mrs. Dr. Griss has requested that the Committee on Justice report on the request of Members Dr. Griss, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 15. In June 1978 the IPR Act was amended, 924/A, a period of until 1 January 1978. to sit on July. . The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. I would also like to say that Members of Parliament have requested Wöginger and Hofer to report to the Financial Committee on the Government Template on a "Bundesgesetz, which amends the Stock Exchange Act 2018", 624 of the Supplements, a deadline of up to 2. to be set up on July 2019. . This request will also be put to the vote at the end of the sitting. Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that the MEPs asked Wöginger and Hofer to report to the Financial Committee on the Government Template 626 of the Supplements on a "Bundesgesetz, which amends the Transparency Database Act 2012", a deadline until 2. to be set up on July 2019. . This request will then also be put to the vote. Finally, I say that Mr Magistrate. Rossmann has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 318/A of Mr Rossmann, colleagues, be limited to 1. to be set up on July 2019. – This too will then be voted. The motions for resolutions are put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting, which is immediately. [[12:58:15]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2019-06-13-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00083_d7e969	We shall therefore proceed to the votes. We come to the vote on the request of Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the judicial committee for reporting on the government paper concerning a federal law amending the legal order and other laws, 633 of the supplements, a period of time until 1. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – It looks as if it had been accepted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on their request for evaluation of the Working Time Act, the Labour Peace Act and the General Social Security Act. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament to report on the following applications: Amendment 453/A(E) by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on ‘National action plan to combat child poverty in Austria’. I call for a sign of approval of this deadline. – This is the minority, rejected. Proposal by Mr Holzinger Vogtenhuber, colleagues in relation to family allowances law 1967. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the request of Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 183/A by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on ‘a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act on Sustainability, Animal Protection, the comprehensive environmental protection, the safeguarding of water and food supply and research’. to sit on July. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on the requests from Mr Dr. Noll, the Constitutional Committee, one deadline to one. to report on the following applications: Amendment 851/A, Dr. Noll, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. Amendment 632/A, Dr. Noll, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. Question No 631/A, by Mr Noll, on information freedom law. If you agree to this deadline, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Noll: I understand that you don’t get up there!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: The Lord Kurz has promised!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Cox, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 445/A by Mr Cox, colleagues on the VAT Act 1994. to sit on July. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Magn. Rossmann, the Economic, Industrial and Energy Committee for Reporting on Amendment 913/A(E) by Mr Mag. Rossmann, colleagues in the field of “reimprovement of the National Energy and Climate Plan [...], in line with the findings of scientific research to achieve the Paris Climate Goals”, also a deadline to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Who is for this deadline? – This is the minority, rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, has a period of up to 1 January each. to report on the following applications: Amendment 919/A by Mr Mag. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Mother Protection Act, the Father's Care Act and the Land Labor Act. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Question No 900/A by Mr Mag. Loacker, colleagues on employee law. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Dr.in Griss to set a deadline for reporting to the Justice Committee on Amendment 924/A by Dr.in Griss, colleagues on the IPR Act, until 1.7.2019. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on the request of Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the Financial Committee for reporting on the Government template 624 of the Supplements concerning Stock Exchange Act, a period of time of up to 2. to be set up on July 2019. We speak for it, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of Mr Wöginger and Mr Hofer, the Financial Committee for reporting on the Government template 626 of the Supplements to the Transparency Database Act, a deadline of up to 2. to sit on July. Whoever is for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Debates of the European Parliament Rossmann, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 318/A by Mr Rossmann, colleagues, a period of time to 1. to be set up on July 2019. Whoever speaks out for this deadline, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the voting process. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Tuesday, 2. July 2019, at 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. The agenda is exhausted. I wish you a nice day. The sitting is closed.
