ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the session is open. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao, he asked Don Juan Carlos Segura Just if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u2	Yeah, I swear. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u3	In place of Laura Borràs Castanyer, I ask Pilar Calvo and Gómez if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u4	I am loyal to the October 1 mandate for the freedom of political prisoners and the return of exiles, as a matter of law, I promise. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u5	Don Juan Carlos Segura Just and Dona Pilar Calvo i Gómez have acquired full status as MPs. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u6	In accordance with rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda in order to exchange the order of debate of the Senate amendments included as paragraphs 27 and 28. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u7	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group amending Law 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on tax regimes for non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u8	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that, at least since Augusto's Rome, there are collaborative strategies to promote cultural or scientific sectors. It is possible that without Cayo Mecenas, who gives name to the activity that occupies us today, neither Horacio nor Virgil could have left the legacy that they left to this day. Similarly, we know that the intervention of the Medici family in Florence in cultural and scientific matters has much to do with the legacy that Galileo Galilei, among others, has left us to this day. During the 19th and 20th centuries the contributions of the bourgeoisie on cultural and social issues in our country have been more than remarkable, and today we have in many places of the peninsula strategies for the success of public-private collaborations that work and that work very well. Ladies and gentlemen, sponsorship comes from afar, but beyond the historical arguments, which are very important, there are other arguments that I believe are bound to reflect, and it is necessary to share it with you today to appreciate this initiative that we are presenting to you. This House adopted in 1994 the first Law on Tax Incentives for Private Participation in Activities of General Interest. It was a pioneering law; it was the first such law in Europe and practically in the world. It was so that parliaments like French were inspired by our law to develop theirs. But this law - like all - was obsolete, and only eight years later, in 2002, it had to be updated. Today, in 2021, we ask that, eighteen years after that law of 2002, we adopt a new update to bring legislation closer to reality. The initiatives that take place in other countries such as France should serve as inspiration for us in shaping this initiative. The Global Philanthropy Environment index, developed by the University of Indiana, which takes into account concepts such as regulation, the creation, operation and dissolution of non-profit organizations, the regulation that regulates tax incentives in donations in the country itself, the regulation that regulates tax incentives abroad, the political and governance environment or the social and cultural environment itself, place Spain at a score of 3.9 out of 5. It may seem like good news, but by analyzing the countries that accompany us in the ranking, one realizes that we are in the same position as Ukraine and that we are below countries such as Poland, Scandinavian countries, Ireland, Germany and, of course, France and Italy, which are reference countries in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, in Germany, Belgium or Switzerland, 100 % of the contribution can be deducted, with different ceilings. In France, companies have a tax deduction of 60% on the total amount contributed, a deduction that can rise to 66% if it is an individual who makes the contribution, with some variations that can reach 75%. In Italy they enjoy 75% tax incentives, deductible in three years, for those individuals and companies that make donations in support of the national artistic and cultural heritage. In the Netherlands, income from investment in cultural projects is exempt from income tax up to a limit of EUR 54 620. Ladies and gentlemen, the last two Ministers of Culture and Sport, Mr Guirau and Mr Martínez Uribe, have verbalised in this House that an update of the Law on Sponsorship is necessary. Beyond the historical and context arguments, we find arguments from the Ministry of Finance itself that invite us to reflect on this issue. Notice, ladies and gentlemen, about the general budgets, approved and participated by the People's Party, we find a deviation between the tax benefits corresponding to the entities of patronage that in the year 2018 reached 347 million euros. It is also true that in the same period, between 2010 and 2018, we find a hole in contributions in research, culture and science that exceed the EUR 2 billion; with this, ladies and gentlemen, it seems clear that, with 347 million euros, the cultural sector, science, research and sport cannot perform the same work as without these EUR 2200 million. What we propose here today is no secret; it is more public investment in culture, in science, in development, in research, in sports, and a law of sponsorship that favors collaboration between private individuals, that favors those individuals, companies and organizations that decide to establish collaboration agreements, can do so more directly and improving their internal dynamics. In short, what do we propose with this update of the legislation on sponsorship? First, we propose updating the concept of patrons. We accept that the patrons are no longer a part of the bourgeoisie of our societies, but are citizens who decide to collaborate with their income, with their incomes with those non-profit organizations that generate or work in causes that seem interesting to them. We therefore propose that the first EUR 150 should be deductible by 90% and that the remainder, the amount exceeding this EUR 150, should be deducted by 50%. We believe it is important to recognize the role of crowdfunding or micro-mecenanism platforms, which obviously in 2002, when legislation was passed, did not have the strength they have today. That is why we ask that donations made through these platforms can also benefit from such incentives. In the case of donations made by legal persons, we propose to increase the deductions for donations to non-profit entities provided for in the law to 50%. We ask that the limits on the application of deductions also increase from 10 % to 20 % of the taxpayer's liquidated base. We call for the concept of service donation to be incorporated, because we believe that collaborations do not necessarily have to be monetary transactions; we believe that collaborations in the form of services can help private individuals, can help businesses, can help NGOs and can ultimately help improve this ecosystem that is generated between organizations and companies and individuals. We therefore call for the incorporation of the concept of donation of service, the incorporation of the donation for the architectural rehabilitation of goods of cultural interest, the donations for the protection of protected natural spaces or the donations of cultural goods to recognized authors, an initiative inspired by laws such as the Italian one. We call for the strengthening of automation and the application of local tax exemption to property owned by non-profit institutions, when these are not linked to economic activities not exempt from corporate taxes. We propose to extend the modalities of exempt economic holdings when they are developed by non-profit entities. Among the new activities we incorporate organizations of public activities for dissemination and cultural promotion, the services of the socio-occupational integration service of people at risk of social exclusion, education and vocational training or the provision of services to non-profit entities. We propose an amendment to the procedure for the recognition of associations of public interest in order to give more objectivity to that procedure. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we call on the Government to draw up a report every three years to check the effectiveness of this initiative and to be able to improve those things that do not work. Ladies and gentlemen, the sector has been asking us for an update on this initiative for many years. There have been failed attempts in this House to push forward initiatives that are similar to what we are presenting today, so we call for their support. We have heard in recent hours that this bill aims to finance independence. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think of such barbarity and I cannot understand how the spokesman for the People's Party has been able to assert such barbarity. That is why we say that this does not serve to finance independence, that this serves to finance cultural, research, development, social sectors that need our support and that need at least - at least - that this House does not interfere in private matters and that it favours public-private partnerships. That is why we ask for your support, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because we do not understand how you have been able to make that statement. We ask, ladies and gentlemen, for your support throughout the House, because it is an initiative that neither comes from a party nor comes from a way of understanding the world, but it comes from all the social, cultural, research, scientific and sports sectors that need us to make life easier for them, that ultimately need us to be the facilitating element so that they can find resources outside the Administration to make their usual dynamics, to function in a normal way and to be able to work with better conditions. It is no secret that my political party, the political party in which I participate, defends public-private partnerships as a means of ensuring the proper functioning of the system. Today I do not ask you to share that system to support this law, I just ask you to understand the need to support sectors that are having a bad time, that have seen how the administration's contributions over the past few years have been diminishing, and that they need us to support them in order to be able to continue working on better conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I ask you to vote to accept the processing of this law, which we can discuss eighteen years after the last sponsorship law adopted by this House on new concepts, on new ideas, on how we update a sponsorship law so that it is homologable to the rest of the sponsorship laws of countries that are referent, and that this House can regain the role that has let go of the last few years. Ladies and gentlemen, lastly, I ask you for this support not only on my behalf, but on behalf of all those entities, such as the Fundació Catalunya Cultura, the CoNCA and so many, so many entities not only from Catalonia, but from other parts of the state that have been defending this initiative. I ask for your support and make myself at your disposal to discuss, ladies and gentlemen, what you consider appropriate when this law starts its procedures for discussing amendments. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. In turn of fixing positions, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The fundamental question that emerges from this proposal is that Spain lacks a specific law of sponsorship and needs to have it, even more so in the face of the peremptory need to encourage private support for the benefit of society. What we now have in force is a legislative successor with which public-private partnerships were facilitated at the beginning of this century, in order to stimulate initiatives that support activities in different areas. But this legislation, still in force and timidly reformed, is subject to very tax-oriented issues which sought to improve the previous law, adopted a decade earlier, Law 30/1994 of 24 November, on foundations and fiscal incentives for private participation in activities of general interest, which sought to significantly increase fiscal incentives for private collaboration. However, the Government presided over by José María Aznar promulgated Act No. 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the taxation of non-profit entities and on tax incentives for sponsorship, which obtained broad parliamentary support in the General Courts In its proceedings, both here in Congress and in the Senate. In 2016, there was a change to promote the so-called micro-mecenazgo, but Spain continues to need a defined legislative impulse around the mecenazgo, which also adds to the autonomous effort in this same area that already has regulation, in the case of the communities of the Basque Country, Navarre, Valencian Community, Castilla-La Mancha and Balearic Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal that Mr Miquel i Valentí has defended could certainly be a good opportunity to improve this pending subject, as his proposal for a law raises and expands the conditions of sponsorship and sponsorship at a socio-economic moment which, as you all know, is extremely complex and which will be extended for a long time - we are talking about years - as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, this parliamentary initiative could also be an opportunity to address the changes that the Government of Pedro Sánchez announced in its first months, including by convening inter-ministerial commissions, but which remained in the refrigerator before the pandemic, and now the triple parapet of the coronavirus of the Minister of Finance and the priorities for dealing with the health emergency will make it impossible for the Government to bring to the courts the rule it committed to promoting public-private financing projects. The current law - it should be emphasized - is not exactly a sponsorship, however much it carries it in its title, at least not in the sense with which it applies in other countries of Europe and the world homologous to Spain. Our current legislation is fiscal in nature because it seeks to make requirements more flexible and encourage private collaboration with activities and tasks of undoubted public interest, through non-profit entities of an academic, university, foundational, scientific, federative, health, solidarity, environmental, cultural, sporting, etc. nature, which provide society - and this must be borne in mind and underlined - with an important added value that otherwise, given the limitation of the general budgets of the State, it would be impossible to carry out. Some areas and objectives, such as those relating to rural areas and the fight against their depopulation, could even be required to be the subject of sponsorship measures. In fact, the Senate has recently urged the Government to do so. For Asturias this is a matter of extraordinary importance. We start from a very complicated situation, with the burden of the different crises that we have suffered in the last fifteen years and the forced cuts in public spending to which our administrations were singularly seized, following the express reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, in September 2011, which have been moving away from budgetary availability and gradually decompensated the undoubted and necessary private protection effort. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past year 2020, the first year of the pandemic that disrupts our lives, the excessive and often erratic legislative production of the Council of Ministers tried to alleviate the effects of the health emergency with initial measures to support the cultural and tax sector in order to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19, which were embodied in Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 of 5 May, and which were subsequently supplemented by other emergency regulations in view of the insufficient first support, which were not only scarce, but also highlighted the need for further reforms. This one today goes in that reformist line. However, it succumbs when it raises issues that strengthen the competence of the autonomous communities that affect fiscal and collection aspects of the State. For the Asturians, who are heated by the very high tax pressure, a product of decades of socialist governments, we only lacked to attribute them more capacity to crush the taxpayer on account of a law of sponsorship with the competitive characteristics and aspirations proposed and intended by the PDeCAT. If it does not pass this first process, we will have to continue waiting for a new law, because the colossal crisis that we are experiencing will have a very negative impact on the business sector, with the consequent impacts on the patronage and sponsorship that are already being devastating. We must not lose sight of the fact that in Spain we have some 275 000 non-profit entities, and all the studies and reports carried out in recent months all wish great difficulty for a high percentage of them, with their impact in terms of employment, in addition to the social decline that will entail the inevitable cut in their ordinary activities and actions, and ultimately in many matters of capital importance. As we continue to face this peremptory need, I call on the Government to fulfil its commitment to ensure that Spain does not remain detached from the momentum for patronage that is in place in the European Union. In short, I disclaim this proposal for a law, but we continue to think from the Forum that it is desirable to strengthen as soon as possible the tools on which the survival resources of the third sector are already based, and that they also affect micro-methodism, in order to try to capture citizen participation in associative projects of general interest. Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u11	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u12	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Good afternoon. The truth is that I thought that Mr Bel was going to present the initiative because it was an economic issue, but I thank Mr Miquel for presenting it equally well. Mr. Miquel is bringing us today a bill to amend the Non-Profit Entities and Tax Incentives to Sponsorship Act. You know that we share and agree basically on almost all economic approaches, both at the personal and group level, and today we also share the need to address an amendment or revision of this Sponsorship Act. I do not know if it is perhaps the most appropriate time to be immersed in a pandemic that establishes or requires perhaps other priorities, justification that perhaps other groups can do to it today, but it is also true that we cannot be continually shielding ourselves from a pandemic situation, and therefore leaving aside some issues that are perhaps more ordinary. It is a bill that, as I have said and you have said, intends to change a law of 2002, and it is true that it has already had an attempt to amend the X Legislature by Convergence i Unió, which finally did not come forward. That proposal and that which we are presenting today do not differ very much in its approach. Both sought to increase tax incentives, both in IRPF and in societies, to strengthen the role of the autonomous communities in this area and to broaden the concept of donations and donations; and today they also raise the issue of micro-mecenanism, which was not raised at that time. I would like to say, Mr Miquel, in confidence, because I think they are very meticulous with what they always present, that I think your proposal has a small error in its explanatory statement, because when you talk about changing the deduction percentages, the percentages that appear are not those in force, because Decree 17/2020 in its final second provision modifies the same ones, and it is no longer 75% but 80% for donations of less than EUR 150, and 35% instead of 30% for amounts of EUR 150. Although I also have to tell you that it is normal that this has happened, because with so much decree that has been passed, in which some modify the previous ones and with new measures, it is normal for us to be mistaken. I also want to say from here that it is high time that all these decrees that are going to be dealt with as bills were brought to this House and done so. It is true that there has recently been a need to increase the participation of the private sector in activities of general interest, and in this regard I must say that the outlying historical territories have already reformulated the catalogue of tax incentives to facilitate greater public-private collaboration in the financing of projects of general interest. In the case of Vizcaya, Guipúzcoa and Álava this review took place in 2019, expanding in 2020 for those donations, contributions or services free of charge in favor of both Osakidetza and scientific research, in the context of the fight against COVID-19. It must also be said that when it comes to sponsorship, we should also be clear what kind of sponsorship we want because, while it is true that it is going to make money go in to give impetus to certain sectors, it is also true that what goes in on the one hand stops going in on the other, and budgets can be affected if sponsorship is done very openly. So we understand that this sponsorship must, of course, maintain a balance between deductions and loss of revenue for budgets and, above all, we believe that sponsorship cannot be a substitute for revenue. As you know, we have jurisdiction in this matter, as reflected in the law itself in its article 1, which states that the law will be understood without prejudice to the outlaws of Concert and the Navarro Convention and, therefore, the possible amendment of the law that you bring here today would not affect us. That is why our position is going to be that of abstention, because, just as we have the capacity to decide on this matter in our territories, we do not want to influence a decision which we do not have the right to adopt, but which is the same for other administrations in other territories, and that is why, despite the fact that we see with good eyes the need to amend this law and to adapt it of course to the new times, as I have said, our vote will be abstaining. Thank you very much. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u14	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Plural Group presents us with a law that aims to increase tax incentives to sponsorship, which broadens the concept of donation and includes the obligation to assess its impact every three years. We in Citizens already present in another legislature a proposal for a law on sponsorship, a law that is one of the great claims of the third sector in Spain, a law that intended to give recognition to our patrons. As you know, in our party we bet on private public collaboration as one of the ways of progress for society, it is a way of going hand in hand towards the future, and that is why our proposal was open to the areas of solidarity, culture, sport or research. Therefore, we are not dealing with a matter that is strange to us. So I tell you that from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we will vote in favour of dealing with this bill. We believe that we are at a good starting point to start working on a reform of the system of economic and government subsidies for sponsorship contributions. As I say to you, this is a good starting point, but if this law is passed in this House, I am telling you that we have a great deal of work ahead of us and that we need to see it in conscience in order to develop a law that really solves the problems that exist right now. We must develop a much more ambitious text over the coming months. From my group we believe that it would have been better to develop a specific rule such as that currently registered in Congress or in the Senate, a law that not only adapts the needs of the sector and contemplates new forms of support for culture, science, non-professional sport and other activities of general interest, but also extends and establishes clearly and reduces to the maximum the discretion in the interpretation and application by the competent authorities of the benefits collected in it. We also believe that tax incentives for sponsorship are in the right direction, but there is much to be done too, because, according to the AIReF, donations in Spain are well below the level of our community partners and a way to provide and increase these donations is through tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, part of the reconstruction of our country's economic and cultural fabric must be through the articulation of a new system of tax deductions that encourages public-private collaboration and allows companies in the sector to have more financing at their disposal in order to be able to grow and be more productive. The data is alerting us to how culture is suffering the consequences of this pandemic. In the first quarter of last year, cultural employment fell by more than 8% compared to 2019, a figure that emerges from the report prepared by the ministry itself on the impact of COVID-19 on cultural employment. This same report tells us that the indefinite contracts in this sector were already few before the pandemic, as they fell by 4%. In Citizens we have already put on the table many times the possibility that the Minister of Culture and Sport would collect and endorse our proposal, but unfortunately the Minister is still absent as the sector of Culture bleeds. What else has to happen, ladies and gentlemen of the government? What else has to happen? We must get to work, and this law could be a good starting point for helping those sectors that currently need it the most as culture can be. I do not want to end the intervention without reminding you that in Citizens we recorded an amendment to the budgets to include the Carlos III Institute of Health, the CSIC or the Red Cross in the additional provision on priority sponsorship activities. Of course, the honourable Members who support the Government voted against it. Let us now take advantage of the processing of this law to address the issue from its roots, presenting to the Spaniards an appropriate regulation adapted to the needs of the different sectors. Let us not miss the opportunity to have a calm, in-depth debate listening to society and offering them the best framework so that they can continue to develop their activities with the support of all Spaniards. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Margall Sastre has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. We discussed this proposal for a law of the PeCAT on the reform of the Law on Tax Incentives to Sponsorship. We congratulate Mr Sergi Miquel on this initiative because we believe that it is very necessary that this year 2021 be reformed a law that is 2002 and more so with everything that has happened in this last year of pandemic, but rather a previous issue. This proposal seeks to reform the regulation of private investment, as stated in the explanatory memorandum - I quote literally - to supplement the insufficient public spending on these activities. Before we enter the bottom, we want to make it clear that we are, as a party of the left, a priority for the investment of the public sector in the fields of culture, R & D & I, science and sport, the main areas that stimulate patronage. The impact of COVID-19 is particularly profound in these sectors, as they have traditionally not provided sufficient public and private funding. This is why it is essential and urgent to implement public recovery policies that prioritize and demand the social value of culture and science. After this reality there is both the structural precariousness of these sectors and the implications of the previous financial crisis of 2008, which entailed significant budget cuts by the Spanish right and also the Catalan one in cultural policies and in support of science in the different public administrations, with which the serious situation of these sectors is not exclusively a consequence of the current recession caused by the COVID-19. For all this, we need public resources, many more public resources, resources that are obtained through a more progressive tax system: that we pay more who has more, that big companies tax where they generate value and that we tackle tax fraud and tax evasion, which is guilty of more than €60 billion a year being stopped collecting in the Spanish State. Only in this way can we guarantee the investments needed to achieve a more egalitarian, just, cultured and innovative society. Already in 2017 Esquerra Republicana presented a motion in this Congress that urged, precisely, the reform of the Law of incentives to sponsorship in order to include the public consortia of the system of science, technology and innovation as financial entities benefiting from sponsorship. At present, this law is clearly limited both from the point of view of the sectors to which it applies and from the point of view of the entities that may be beneficiaries and of the tax incentives themselves to which they may benefit. The science and technology system is integrated not only by public universities, public research bodies and research foundations, but also by consortia, whose main mission is research. Among the latter, we can cite as examples the Barcelona Supercomputing Center and the Consortium for the construction, equipment and operation of the Syncrotron Light Laboratory, CELLS. It is essential that it be explicitly stated in a future law. And allowing the autonomous communities to incorporate priority sponsorship activities also seems to us to be an essential reform. In fact, we have already tabled an amendment to the General Budgets of the State with the same intention and we hope that the reform contained in this plenary will be approved. At European level, areas such as culture, science, education or development cooperation are recognised as areas where citizens can make massive sponsorship contributions. I give you a concrete example. The Banc dels Aliments de Girona has often explained the need to improve the tax treatment of donations as a result of the improvement of this law. For example, companies that can help them can now deduct 35% of the company tax here, while in other European countries, this is as much as 65%, as would be the case in France. In short, although we believe that the model of sponsorship is necessary, it must be complementary and always behind public investment. We would have put forward a different proposal for a law, but we are going to vote in favour of this consideration because we believe that there is much room to improve the current law and we are therefore open to debate. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u18	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, let us begin by sharing a large part of the concerns reflected in the text presented today by PeCAT for its debate. The first of these is obvious, the very relevance of a sponsorship law, since, as has already been said, the rules in force, the Non-Profit Tax Act and the tax incentives to sponsorship, date back to 2002. That is, it is almost two decades ago, more than enough time to subject the standard to an in-depth update and adapt it to the new and changing circumstances. We also agree on the importance of providing non-profit or public-interest entities with sufficient tools for financing them. To this end, the State must not only transfer direct resources to these activities, but must implement a whole system of fiscal incentives for the responsible and efficient involvement of the private sector in their support, as, in fact, the text under discussion today proposes. Already during the 2008-2012 crisis the drastic and sudden reduction in public funding demonstrated the desirability of opening up space and encouraging the entry of private capital in order to partially compensate and correct this situation; and I say in part because nothing can and should replace the State in the protagonist of these policies. On the other hand, the current crisis has highlighted the importance of sustaining these activities, not only those that are carried out without profit - and whose relevance in these months has been fundamental to satisfy the needs that the State simply does not arrive - but also those linked, for example, to the world of sport or culture so punished and at the same time so demanded in these strange days that we have had to live. We also agree to promote further deductions for small capitals, micro-equity, as you said. In some ways, popularizing the concept of patronage not only promotes a certain egalitarianism, but also appeals to a citizen responsibility that must undoubtedly be promoted. Thus, we cannot agree more to remove him from the realm of the bourgeoisie, as Mr Miquel said. In the same vein, it is proposed to expand certain concepts such as donations and donations, all of which seem to us to be correct or, at least, well-directed. Similarly, we agree on the role that autonomous communities should play in the management and further design of these tools. In fact, as has already been said here, there are already a number of self-governments that have legislated in this regard. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance has argued that it is not only aware of the regulatory outdatedness in this area, but that, according to it, it has been studying a reform in the direction pointed out here for months. Since the main mechanism for promoting sponsorship is taxation, it seems reasonable to reserve a certain prominence to the ministry in the reform debate, among other reasons, for the genuinely cross-cutting nature of the proposal as it affects a good number of tax figures, some of which, by the way, have already recently been changed in this direction, such as the increase of those 5 percentage points in the grant deduction in the IRPF quota. This was set last year in Royal Decree-Law 17/2020, of May 5. In addition, the proposed changes to local taxes and fees should be carried out within a joint reform of the consolidated text of the Local Finance Regulatory Act, which requires the participation of local entities - as the proposed group will know - through their representative bodies and taking into account the compensation needs of the State administration. Finally, the ministry claims that all the deductions and exemptions provided for in this bill would have an approximate impact on the public coffers of around 295 million euros per year. Frankly, I do not think it is an alarming figure and I would be willing to take on that impact and even greater if the objectives of promoting these activities of general interest were met. But, as I say, it affects one of the basic pillars of the welfare state's support and we would not like to embark on such a business if it is not with the chief architect, that is, with the ministry, on foot. Fortunately, he has expressed his agreement with the consideration of this initiative, with which we have the guarantees to start its proceedings. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen of the PeCAT, count on our contest. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Guijarro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ramírez del Río has the floor for the VOX parliamentary group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u20	With the venom. When I came to the rostrum, I was told that today we had to get everything we could for the Spaniards who are having a bad time. This will be the main object of this intervention. [[Applauds]] When the motion of censure came to the previous president and the first PSOE executive arrived, Mr. Guirao, Minister of Culture and Sports of that cabinet, immediately announced his support for a new law of patronage, which he considered imminent. In addition, it was supposed to be the mere extension of work already being carried out in Culture and other congressional commissions. The work was therefore very advanced. His successor, Mr. Rodríguez Uribes, again insisted on his first appearances on the advanced nature of these proceedings and in which they had practically a text that they could submit to the consideration of this Congress. Unfortunately, that has not been done either. The sinking of the public revenue of all administrations, no matter how much accounting makeup they want to wear, is already a reality. The need for much of the activities that the public administration will not be able to carry out to be undertaken by private initiative is more acute than ever. Non-profit entities that really provide their assistance to the Spanish most affected by this pandemic urgently need all the resources they can gather. To the extent possible, it is the duty of all members of this House to cooperate fully and to give them those resources. In this regard, the current Government, as in everything, is not up to the challenge. In this context, the failure to have an appropriate instrument and to have to be governed by one of the 2012 laws, as has already been made clear by the people who have preceded me in the use of the word, will be an important problem. That is why, since the only thing that is being discussed at this sitting is whether or not we are going to accept it, and fully understanding the objective that Mr Miquel i Valentí intends with this proposal, we will be inclined to vote in favour of it. This text is not the result of a recent elaboration, but merely a copy, for the most part, of the proposal presented by Convergence i Unió, when he was still his spokesman Mr Duran i Lleida, and published in the Bulletin of the Courts on 23 May 2014. If we read several of your paragraphs and the article, we can say that, even if we do not adopt the extremely liberal approach in these matters of the absent Mr Sánchez, this is an original work; this is a mere reiteration of a proposal that did not even come to be discussed in plenary. I understand that it is logical that they maintain the same ideas on a subject like this, given that that initiative did not come to be debated, but seven years is an excessive period for not having made any further updates. I have been a member of employers' associations from different foundations both in Spain and abroad and the changes in administrations in these years have been very profound; they should have been reflected. However, I have to point out that many of the improvements that you are proposing here reflect a good knowledge of non-profit entities, their funding and should be taken into account. In many cases they would improve the text we have at the moment. We also welcome the proposal to include private universities among the centres that can receive these advantages, as more and more consideration must be given to all possible research centres, as this pandemic has shown. Leaving aside the fact that this proposal is almost identical to 2014, we consider that there are aspects - which we hope to be able to correct - that are worrying, for example, that of the unavailable heritage funds. It is true that in France this figure has had quite a development because it tries to adapt a figure of Mali's Islamic law, a transposition of the habic goods that had already been given in Franco-Argelian law and which is analogous to different figures of European law. We cannot say conclusively that this should not be done, but to do so with the lightness with which it is dispatched in this text is very excessive. There are even many Muslim countries in which this is not considered acceptable. It is an extremely complex issue that needs to be discussed in a case-by-case manner and not as an additional provision, how it is dealt with here. We also believe that some of the proposed deductions can lead to significant tax evasion. Therefore, even if the provision of services to foundations and NGOs is perfectly legitimate and should, of course, lead to a drawdown, we think it would be very good to listen to those officials in the ministry to tell us more or less where the shots of regulatory development can go so that this can result. However, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, and as we are voting at the moment, it is necessary to allow this reform of the Sponsorship Act to be drawn up on the basis of this text, we will support its consideration and make any improvements that may be possible during its procedure. As I told you at first, we will do everything possible to get any improvement for the Spaniards who are having it worse. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramírez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Miquel, is a new law of patronage necessary? Yeah, but not like that. We agree to increase incentives for sponsorship, but not to convert the reform of the law into a totum revolutionum in which the Plural Parliamentary Group tries to include some de facto transfers of powers to the autonomous communities, with some points of dubious constitutionality, as I will try to explain throughout my intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, the thrust of sponsorship is in the DNA of the cultural and social project of the People's Party, because we are with the great cultural patrons who give to the State works of incalculable value, but also with the patrons who save 10 euros to give at the end of the month a contribution to the Spanish Association against Cancer; because we are with the support of the Prado Museum, but also with the university research centers that fight against COVID; because we are with those who give a millionaire legacy, but also with those who donate a small amount through a crowdfunding platform to an NGO that fights to help those who have to resort to the queues of hunger. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a government of the People's Party that introduced sponsorship as a protagonist of Spanish legislation for the first time through Law 49/2002. This rule, which remains in force, introduced significant tax deductions for contributions made by individuals and businesses to non-profit entities serving the general interest. Following the arrival of the PP government again in 2011, it was proposed to give a new impetus to sponsorship. The ruin situation that had left us Rodriguez Zapatero did not allow the adoption in that first legislature of a broader regulation, but new deductions in the IRPF and in the company tax, which increased over the years while the economy recovered with very positive effects. I'll give you some data. The Spanish Association of Fundraising says that each Spanish was deducted from the average of the IRPF contribution for donations and other contributions an amount of 10,1 euros in 2016 compared to 4,7 euros on average in 2014. In other words, there was an increase of 113% following the approval of these new tax advantages in 2014. Already in 2018 the People's Group proposed a law to promote patronage that expired after Mr Sánchez's motion of censure. Our commitment to this issue is therefore clear. As I said at the beginning, Mr Miquel, there are things we like about this bill, but there are others we cannot agree with. Starting with the good part, we like to see tax incentives on sponsorship being increased to the same level as other European countries. We like to see incentives for science or research collected. We like that new figures are collected such as crowdfunding or micro-mecenation or the inclusion of new assumptions for the maintenance of historical or environmental heritage. However, we do not understand that a sponsorship law should be used to introduce independent claims, such as the autonomous community making the valuation of donations of property to private entities or that the autonomous communities could expand the assumptions of sponsorship, affecting taxes that are state such as corporation tax or the state portion of the IRPF; or the claim that property contributed as a tax payer must remain in the autonomous community of origin. This would mean, for example, that a painting of Dalí, which was of Figueras, could not be exhibited in Queen Sofia or that a Salzillo could not be exhibited in the Museum of Sculpture of Valladolid or that a Picasso, which was of Malaga, could not be exhibited in Barcelona. Sponsorship is solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, and solidarity is incompatible with exclusive nationalism or provincial selfishness. [[Applauds]] The societies that close, that exclude solidarity recede; the open, free, societies advance. There is nothing more to compare the economic data of Catalonia and Madrid in recent years. And that's why we can't support her. If we approve its consideration, we amend the text, but I announce that the People's Group will present in the coming days a proposal for a law to promote sponsorship, which is necessary, but without any strange addition, because we think that, together with the necessary public contribution to entities of general interest, the existence of private resources from the solidarity of citizens helps to sustain in the medium term the entities of the third non-profit sector, cultural but also social, research, educational, all of them beneficiaries of sponsorship; because we think that, in addition to the necessary economic recognition, we must strengthen the social recognition of the patrons and because we also think that the COVID has made us more supportive, more aware of the importance of helping causes such as medical research or science and that solidarity must be supported; a solidarity more necessary than ever as a result of the economic crisis and the drop in the contributions of private resources. First of all, what does the Government say, that it is not here today? In May the incentives increased with the Royal Decree-Law 17/2020 and it is fine, but it remains short, like almost everything it does in cultural matters. It could be improved if they treat this royal decree as a bill that they have paralysed for many months in this House. But it is that the absent minister Uribes said last week that it was no time for a law of patronage because it leads to melancholy. I understand that Mr Uribes is not very active and that all the actions that the Socialist Party is taking lately lead to melancholy, but action is needed. Mr Uribes added that the time is not right because in the face of the massive increase in expenditure it is necessary to collect. And here's the crux of the matter. Because patronage is freedom. Because to think that the important thing is to collect is socialism. To think that the deductions that leave money in the pocket of the Spaniards so that they can devote it to social causes are good is freedom. Because cooperative solidarity is socialism and voluntary solidarity is freedom. Because the cultural model that seeks to fix everything at a rate of subsidy is socialism and the model that bets on safe culture so that artists can continue to work and develop their economic activity, as Mayor Martínez-Almeida or the favorite left-wing villain, President IsabelDíaz Ayuso, are doing in Madrid, is freedom. [[applause]] Between socialism or freedom and communism or freedom, as you know, we are always with the second. For all this, I support patronage, yes, always. A law will have to be processed and a law is needed to help promote patronage from solidarity and freedom. The rest, what has been added, is not appropriate and prevents us today from supporting the consideration of this proposal. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u23	Thank you, Mr. Carazo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Blanquer Alcaraz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u24	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the need for a comprehensive review of the Non-Profit Tax Act and tax incentives for sponsorship, a review motivated by the time since its first adoption and the existence of new forms of public funding that would even justify a new regulatory framework in this area. However, the materialization of this proposal does not reflect this purpose, but rather the intention to obtain as many tax advantages and differential treatments as possible, and it does so, in our view, without responding to the complexity of the matter as it deserves, distorting the image of a non-profit and philanthropic sector of our country that moves away from the partial vision that reflects the proposal. And to the facts I refer, the initiative focuses on expanding the concept of donations and donations and that of entities benefiting from sponsorship. We believe that it is questionable to grant, as intended, the right to practice deductions for donations of services, since it may hinder even the desirable objective of preventing and avoiding tax fraud, given the difficulty of controlling the effective provision of services as consultancy or advice and its correct assessment. This initiative also seeks, as has already been explained, to raise the current amounts of deductions and limits on a flat-rate basis - and for our understanding without clear justification. For example: 90 % increase in the deduction from the IRPF, 50 % of corporate tax, exemption from the ICI and an open definition of exempt economic holdings, among other issues. In short, this initiative simplistically establishes - in our view - an endless number of modifications. And, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn the revision of this law into a mere competition for tax improvements. We want and must strengthen and strengthen a sector committed to the challenges of our society, but we cannot give a false signal, as the People's Party is trying to say. We cannot share that solidarity is driven exclusively by a fiscal interest. We really don't share it. We have a very committed and supportive society and we cannot share that it is solely and exclusively driven by fiscal interests. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged, on account of responsibility, to change the approach of the initiative and we will do so. The clear social contribution is important, but so is the tax contribution, and we must value both, in reputational terms as well. In addition, I would like to incorporate a reflection into the debate. It is obvious that tax relief is not the main decision factor when it comes to participating in donation proposals; this is attested to by various studies and business barometers. Indeed, according to recent studies, European philanthropy mobilized more than EUR 11 billion in a single month in May 2020. In a single month, a large amount of resources have been mobilized, most of them focused on emergency assistance for the health care crisis, as well as general support for non-profit partners with difficulties; an approach that is now shifting towards the side effects of the crisis. The coronavirus crisis has mobilized an unprecedented response from the philanthropic community that has little to do with increasing tax incentives. Also, AIReF, in its analysis of tax deductions for donations, within the programming of the Spending Review, does not identify the direct causal relationship between tax benefit and the advance of donations. The 2015 and 2016 reforms, increasing the deduction percentages on the donations applied, did not have significant or differential effects on the amounts donated or on the likelihood that a taxpayer would make more donations. It has been found that in recent years there are other factors that are having greater influence if tax incentives for making donations, such as campaigns on social networks or new technological developments, for example. Therefore, establishing improvements, agile and transparent mechanisms to facilitate such public-private participation is a priority subject, ahead of the mere increase in tax incentives; incentives that, by the way, as has been repeated here, have recently been significantly improved to support the cultural sector, to address the economic and social impact of COVID-19, raising the percentages of deduction in the IRPF, in Royal Decree 17/2020, as you mentioned. The tax benefits collected in the 2021 budget for donations in IRPF have increased by 10% compared to the previous year; for corporate tax donations, by 15.4%. As the same proposal acknowledges, progress is undeniable in the past year. The budgetary effort for 2021 is unquestionable in investment and in public spending for social, research and all kinds of purposes; a very different effort, by the way, than that made by other governments in the face of other crises. As the People's Party government weakened the public sector and the social fabric, the progressive government strengthened it and will continue to strengthen it. To control the pandemic, to avoid structural impacts, to ensure rapid and sustainable economic recovery and also - very important - to guarantee sufficient public revenue is the road map of the European Commission, shared by the Government of Spain, and should also be that of this Parliament, so we believe that the literality and the terms used in the initiative should be reconsidered. If it is to become effective - it was said here - it has an additional cost that we must reflect on. For this reason, we believe that it should not be such a limited review; it is better to evaluate it in a broad sense, to adapt it to ensure its purpose and to guarantee distributive fiscal equity above any privilege. Ladies and gentlemen, we encourage you to work together and move towards a framework that is as advantageous as possible to all. It's the way we have to go. I know that this is the goal that most non-profit entities are also pursuing and that we must put into practice. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I simply want to tell you that, for all that I have said, I finish as I started: we share the revision of the law, so we take it into consideration, but we do not share the literality of the terms and therefore we will work...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u25	Mrs. Blanquer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u26	... in order to ensure the comprehensive review; a complex challenge, but I hope that we will be able to deal with it responsibly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Blanquer. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED PROTECTION AND FAMILY SUPPORT. [[File number 122/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u28	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Citizens Parliamentary Group, comprehensive protection and support for families. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u29	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we come with a proposal for a comprehensive law supporting families because in Citizens what we want is to continue working - and I assure you that today more than ever - on moderate proposals, proposals that benefit all families, all families without leaving any out. The process that goes from a person's beginning to form to a certain stability and being able to form a family in Spain is very complicated. It is a process that goes through economic emancipation, achieving a medium stable job and access to housing, and, of course, our country has one of the most dysfunctional labour markets in Europe. This is the basis for the difficulties faced by young people, women and workers in general in reconciling their personal and working lives and in forming a family. What does Citizens intend with today's proposal? We want to change this situation with a clear objective: we want to make Spain the best country to have a family. This can only be achieved if we tackle the problem from all areas, from equality, from conciliation, from co-responsibility and birth. Men and women have to shoulder their family responsibilities as well as the decision to form a family and meet the obligations that this entails cannot continue to entail penalties at work or lay-offs in the professional career, especially in the case of women. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to support families because demographic ageing is one of the main challenges facing Western societies. In Spain this is a particularly serious, delicate problem. The OECD has warned us that by the middle of the century our country will be the second oldest country in the OECD, just behind Japan. And this is not just a demographic problem, it is a sustainability problem, it is a problem of sustaining the welfare state. Workers' contributions are discontinuous, structural unemployment is very high, young people's employment is difficult. We are at the head of Europe in youth unemployment, precariousness,temporality, and all this taking into account that the crisis situation in which we have entered is on the rise. And what do the experts agree on? In that the best conditions for having children are to have completed an education, to have certain years of training, to enjoy economic and labour stability, to have adequate housing and to have a stable couple. This is what is established in the framework of experts, but they are increasingly difficult to achieve in order to be able to form a family. Why? For lack of effective public policies aimed at promoting the reconciliation and co-responsibility of work and family life. These conditions are difficult to achieve because we do not tackle the problem of our labour market; they are difficult to achieve because the State is also forgetting families. Spain has consistently been behind OECD countries in family investment, far away from other countries such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, France and Sweden. These conditions are also difficult to achieve, ladies and gentlemen, because we have not yet managed to put an end to the labour discrimination that we women face. We know that the unemployment rate for women is very high; the latest unemployment rates we have had in February point to 70% of the unemployed being women. Many women, ladies and gentlemen, have had to leave their jobs in order to take care of dependent people, who are more dependent on them, because the public sector has not offered them an alternative in order to continue their work. We are the women who are asking for the surplus and the reduction of the day to take care of our children or our elderly. It is therefore absolutely urgent that we promote co-responsibility, that reconciliation be made possible, so that men and women can develop and distribute their tasks in a balanced way and that we can reconcile our personal and professional lives. Women continue to devote more time to family and home, twice as much time as men, and this is not sustainable, is not acceptable. With the comprehensive family support law we want society to take a step further to support our welfare state by incorporating all care: birth care, childhood, dependency, as well as the reconciliation of personal, family and work life. Care is ultimately the guarantee for the free, dignified and full development of fundamental rights. Dependency and conciliation policies are also a necessary aid for workers who have to reconcile their professional lives with the care of other persons in their care, whether minor, older or dependent. What do we specifically propose with this rule? All families with two or more children are considered to be large families and those with three are considered to be large families of a special category. We set up a protection regime for single-parent families, which, as we know, are essentially made up of women; thus, the recognized benefits for large families are also extended to single-parent families and, with the same logic, recognition for large families of a special category is extended to single-parent families with two or more children. We also explicitly recognize the right to the reconciliation of personal, family and work life and their corresponding exercise, strengthening judicial guarantees for the protection of this right in order to ensure its effectiveness. We want to equate the recognized permit for women workers who are required to attend prepartum or preceptive sessions in adoption processes or who are immersed in assisted reproduction treatments. We extend the right to a reduction in the daytime for the care of children or family members provided for in the Workers' Statute, extending its application to those who have direct care of an elderly person. This law strengthens the instruments for prevention and protection against occupational risks in cases related to pregnancy, maternity and breastfeeding, extending the obligations of companies in the field of prevention and the possibilities of adjusting the duration and distribution of working hours. It also expands the birth and child care allowance granted to women workers who do not meet the contribution requirements for social security contributions. Similarly, a 100% bonus is created for female workers' social security contributions during periods of suspension due to diseases caused by pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding. With this law we also guarantee the right to equal treatment between de facto couples and marriages in access to social rights and benefits. Thus, de facto couples are recognized as large families, a condition that was previously excluded from them. We also take advantage of this law to ask the Government to draw up a State pact for the rationalization of hours and conciliation, aimed at achieving flexible and compact working hours, promoting a genuine reconciliation of personal, family and working life and facilitating the effective possibility of their co-responsibility. In short, ladies and gentlemen, with this law we want Spain to be the best country to form a family, but for this we need a very broad consensus and a broad view of politics, something that I always repeat in this rostrum. Also, siesta is an appropriate proposal, good for our country, I want it to be supported and not because it is a proposal of Citizens - and this has already happened to us on some occasions in budgets - is looked elsewhere. Let us have social commitment to those proposals which are appropriate and which can then be improved in successive procedures, but which are not rejected only by the proposing group from which they come. Therefore, what I would ask you to do is to vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, that we can work throughout the whole process in a joint manner, reflecting on the challenges we face as a society and achieving solutions that will serve to improve the living conditions of all people in this country. I think sometimes the political noise we have outside cloud our minds and we forget priorities. The priority is to legislate for the benefit of all Spaniards; the priority is to reach agreements for the benefit of all our citizens, not to maintain clashes that lead us nowhere. It is the proposal that we have made from my parliamentary group, from moderation, from the centre, from the progressive side that this party has, and we hope that it will really be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to thank Mrs Giménez Giménez for her presentation of this initiative and I will support it, because the measures she proposes for the family contribute to what should be one of Spain's top priorities, but more so if they are a matter of urgency for Asturias. Ladies and gentlemen, a territory without generational relief lacks a future. Hence, it is enough to point out the data published by the National Institute of Statistics last week, which reflects that my autonomous community of origin leads the great national fall of birth due to the COVID-19. In January, the principality had almost 25% less births than in 2019 and lost more than 1000 inhabitants in a month for the first time. These are statistical indicators that highlight a dramatic uncertainty that requires measures, including legislative ones; a requirement that is accompanied by an alarming concern about the inability of the Governments of Spain and the Principality to put a stop to this situation that for Asturians is neither novel nor short-term product of the coronavirus, because successive population records have fallen year after year to historical minimums. We're like 1941, in the middle of the war, in a free fall. The total number of births in 2020 reflected a population loss that has never been achieved before, and we have been doing so year after year since 1984, sharpening negative records and, according to what happened in January, in the current 2021 will be worse. It is urgent to supplicate through legislation the manifest inability of the Government of Pedro Sánchez and, singularly, to correct the futility of the management of the Ministry for the demographic challenge, as well as the colossal deception, also of the socialist factory, called the Demographic Plan of the Principality of Asturias 2017-2027, whose harmful results are in sight. Ladies and gentlemen, last October I called on Vice-President Ribera in this rostrum because the demographic decline, the depopulation and the social and economic inequalities that are accentuated in rural areas should be a matter of state. Like then, I repeat that we need to give ourselves legislation for the family, with particular attention to the protection of maternity, also establishing a line of direct public aid to combat this raw demographic winter, the ageing of the population, the continuing loss of inhabitants and the exodus of young people who do not have employment opportunities and see their future and their aspirations to form a family tarnished. In short, it is enough to copy what is being implemented in other European countries with positive results. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 1960s there were the white widows on the island of La Palma, who were the humble women who had stayed with all the little ones while the husbands were going to Venezuela; some were coming back and some were not coming back, some were sending money and others were not sending money. It was a terrible circumstance, too, with what it could mean to manage one's own property, life, children. Those women are the ones who don't want their daughters and children to live that way today. I am the eldest of ten brothers; my father had seven brothers, my mother another seven, and all my aunts had four or five. We were a large family of honor, but we are in 2021, not in the 1960s, and we have to adapt the circumstances of what is meant by a large family in a century that, moreover, has to be the century of women and in which equal opportunities, conciliation, etc. must be enhanced. Here there are aspects that seem to me very well, how to define what is understood in the year 2021 by large family, that single parents are on equal terms or the impulse of birth and reconciliation. There are things I do not agree with, but we are going to vote on this because we believe that they can be changed over the course of the procedure. For example, the issue of caring for the elderly must go through the Dependency Act and has nothing to do with the objectives of protecting the family and above all the reconciliation of women. Yes, I think there's a very important issue, and I'm telling Podemos and the PSOE. I was mayor of La Laguna twenty years ago and we had two children's schools; in my time they came to make six or eight. What we got 20 years ago was that there wasn't a woman in La Laguna who couldn't work because she didn't have a kindergarten. What was done was a check for the day care center. I sincerely believe that if we set the goal that every child's school must be free and universal, it will be impossible to make the investment in the coming years if we want everything to be public. In my municipality it was done through women's cooperatives to which you guaranteed a five-year contract, and that's viable. The State in the next ten years will not be able to invest in public universalization, because the investment is tremendous, what we can do is to invest in the provision of the service so that families can have the square, whether agreed or not, and with public funding when it cannot be paid. I think that's the most important thing this country needs. I have a 26-year-old daughter. The two major problems of young people, regardless of job insecurity, are, first, the issue of 0 to 3 years, because there is no salary that a private person can pay and there are no public places, and second, housing. I believe that in this proposal of law there is a lack of the element of housing as a driving element of birth and that people have certain preferences, because with the shortage of housing there is totally different that you have three little children and that you are a single parent to have a little child. What I'm saying is I'm fine with it, Mrs. Giménez. Of course, we're going to support her. I think it is an important debate that can be had. This bill will be able to expand in this House its contributions so as to truly have a country where my daughter and the daughters and children of all dare to have little ones despite the precariousness of the job, but with minimum guarantees: a roof under which to sleep and that they will take care of the child when you go to work. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u35	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Before any other question, Mrs Giménez, I would like to highlight the efforts of the drafters or of the drafter, yes you are, of this initiative, because, apart from other considerations about their opportunity or their correctness, the fact is that we have drawn attention to their extent, their rigour and their breadth, although, on the other hand, we also have certain discrepancies with part of their content, although it is not their content, but their lack of economic control that will lead us - it has been announced since now - to position ourselves against their initiative. As you say in your explanatory statement, the proposed law is structured into twenty-nine articles, three titles, six additional provisions, two transitional provisions and five final provisions, but, in our view, it has a significant shortfall in measures to support families and, why not say, at birth. Its measures are aimed, as it points out, first at the proposal for support for families, be they numerous or single-parent, including the extension of the consideration of large families and the integration of new single-parent realities; secondly, at the precision of new measures of reconciliation between the work and family spheres, either in a strictly working order or also in the field of social security, including, on the one hand, the modification and intensification of the benefits of measures linked to motherhood and paternity, and, on the other hand, at measures which, above all, are based on the claim to equalize the rights of de facto couples in their constitution, in their labour rights, in their tax treatment or in respect of survival situations, all without prejudice to proposing in their complementary positions, how not, and this is already beginning to be almost pathological, a new pact of State and an incursion into the later areas of the education system and other purposes that serve the same purpose. Many of these measures are aimed at integrating a broader concept of the family than the one currently incorporated in the legal system, although, in turn, and with all due respect, it proposes other, more voluntarist than precise ones, with which, even with good intention, in order not to leave any reality, there is a certain legal disorder regarding the concept of family and union, as well as the consequences as regards the descendants, which, far from reassuring, push us to a certain degree of concern. As a feature of your regulatory hyperactivity and without prejudice to being able to make a mistake, it has seemed to me that the only assumption that you are not subject to any kind of regulation is that of a married couple formally and with a child. I think it is the only situation to which there is no reference in one way or another in the proposed text, which the truth is that it does not cease to be striking, because I think it practically corresponds to a situation or majority standard. [[The Lord]] Without prejudice to the good intentions of the proposer group, except in that it refers to competition titles, in respect of which, as you can imagine, we do not overly agree, as when it comes to the educational field, the fact is that we understand that the proposal lacks, as the main defect, a basic but essential tool when it comes to its assessment, that of its economic and financial study. Much of the measures, if not all, are aimed not only at the expansion of the legal universe regulating the idea of the family, but also at the implementation, improvement and expansion of existing social, labour and social security measures. And I realize that we do not disagree with most or almost all of the proposals, but I have to understand that the job of being good also has the correspondence, as a good friend and former Member of this House would say, of knowing how much the round costs and who pays it, because improving the status of everyone is a good job but it is not something that the legislator should allow without knowing what its cost is. We believe that, in principle - let it be said with all respect - it is a good and well-intentioned proposition, but it is somewhat hyperventilated. It is necessary in many respects, but it also requires concrete action in public expenditure. As a counterpart, Mrs Giménez, I will tell you that this work should have been carried out by a responsible executive, but, in view of the absence of that character, it is not acceptable on the day of the godmother who proposes to us and whom you would surely also perform. You'll get it done. I repeat my appreciation for the drafter of the proposal; she has worked hard and well, although, surely, like all, it is improveable. But you must understand not the drafter, but the proposing group which is not responsible for making proposals outside the reality where they are inserted, and in it economics is fundamental. That is why, as I have announced, my group will vote against its consideration, without prejudice - I repeat - to the consideration and respect for its good work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u37	Thank you very much, President. The other day here, at the entrance, they asked me if I would be able to vote in favour of a proposal from Citizens. I answered what we always say in Compromís: The important thing is not with whom, but what, unlike what Citizens have done in my land, who expelled every councilman who voted for a Mayor of Compromís. I think with the release of a character like the one who, fortunately, returns to the theater and leaves politics, we will all win. We will vote in favour of the consideration, and it is good that we are talking today about important things, about the family. I have been a father of a large family and I know the difficulties we have had, that all families have, and much more single-parent families. My daughters are already older and think a lot more than my wife and I have a child. We didn't think about it, we had it and in peace. Now it is very difficult to consider the possibility of having a child. Last week a disturbing news came out, the number of births fell to the lowest level ever recorded: 23,226 births in December 2020, nothing more and nothing less than 20% less than in 2019. Therefore, about the possibility of talking about large families, conciliation, permits, zero-to-three years of schooling, single-parent families, common-law partners, distance work, maternity or pregnancy, we understand that these are necessary issues that Members and Members have to deal with. That is why they will count on our vote, so that we can talk, we can improve it in the course of amendments. Finally, there are two topics that are very important to us when we talk about family and that are necessarily linked: housing and, why not, start talking about the working day of thirty-two hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u38	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon. We are faced with a proposal for a law that raises some issues that I believe are topical and, on the other hand, they are issues that we too had on our electoral agenda. To address in a comprehensive way the whole issue of family and birth protection, to extend the deductions of the IRPF by children, to extend support to the family - whether large, single-parent or dependent - or social protection in relation to permits and leave are some of the issues that appear in this proposed law and that we share; of some of them we have even made a flag in the midst of the pandemic, for example all the issues of the MeNuda Plan, which could perfectly be improved, or all the benefit we asked for for those parents who had their children confined. All this support, all this social protection of course they are subjects of which we have made a flag throughout what we carry from this legislature. I must acknowledge that there are some interesting issues, such as the issue of the hourly exchange, the reduction of time or the judicial guardianship that these rights may have. It is true, therefore, that the proposal for a law addresses very interesting issues that we believe need to be discussed here and that is why we are voting in favour of its consideration. We believe that tackling the debate is at least the duty of representatives on this issue. However, in view of this consideration there are those who say that no, that it is necessary to wait for the commitment of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who told us that he wanted a law of family diversity. Well, this commitment has been coming from February 2020. With a pandemic in between? Okay, but also with thirty-nine royal decree-laws through. And the famous commitment of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, I no longer know whether electoral or government, is clearly not going to be fulfilled either, because Mr. Pablo Iglesias is leaving. We dedicate videos recorded from his office - I suppose he has just seen all the Netflix series he has told us in life -, and the truth is that he has now prioritized a party interest, rather than a government interest, an interest in the things that concern people. It seems that he prefers mud, electoral campaign and dialectic war to work on a bill to regulate these matters. Well, in the absence of a bill by the Government, we will make it easier for this debate to reach the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u40	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u41	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Today we talk about protection and support for families. But what families? I ask if we protect the family of Mame Mbaye, who yesterday three years ago died here, in the street of the Bear, in Lavapiés; a keeper who lived for twelve years in Madrid. I wonder if we protect Mother's family from systematic violence, irregularities and violence against people who have migrated; more than six hundred thousand people. [[Applauds]] These six hundred thousand people have families: mothers, parents, children, brothers and cousins. What families do we protect? Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, Your Honor Sara Giménez, your initiative is really trying to update the family model, it is true. Moreover, I must say that the argument of the explanatory statement is very good; in fact, it is better than the articulation of the law. A law of these characteristics must deal with many issues in depth: the demands of domestic workers, the precariousness of young women, temporary and precarious contracts, housing, thinking about caring for creatures, being able to fill the refrigerator, basically trying to survive at the end of the month. From our point of view, many articles in this bill should be reviewed, but in general it is a first bet on the recognition of the equality of de facto couples with marriage. We accept some proposals from this PL, Mrs Giménez, but it is not yet a law that really provides an impetus so that anyone who wants motherhood can really live it with all dignity and the possibility that they should have. There is a need for a legal framework that collects rights and benefits for families with special situations, such as single-parent families or those with foster children, who do not have specific regulations. For example, the Spanish Federation of Large Families has stressed - I always quote here social movement - that other families should be supported with the necessary measures and resources, but under their own regulatory framework, which collects the different assumptions according to the family structure and composition, which gives them protection and guarantees their access to public aid, and not through the title of large family, which regulates the social rights and benefits of large families, whose reality and needs are very different from those of the rest of the families. To conclude, sadly, we believe that this bill still does not solve the problem that prevents - I repeat, prevents - single parents from having or adopting children, starting their life plan. What really prevents them from having access to this life project is the impossibility of access to stable work, to decent housing, to a life without racism, without discrimination. You know that, and I'm sure you share with me what I'm saying. With this lack of perspective for the future, of social support and, of course, the liberal patriarchy - here I go - without a firm regulation of rents, without an increase in the minimum wage, without an improvement in the economic prospects, we cannot ask from this house young people who have a child or who adopt. The proposition has many defects of form, and since I have only two minutes, then I will approach the defects we have found. But it also has flaws in the family's approach. It seems to us a change in the law of large families. That is why we wonder whether amendments could be added, and of course they could be added, but from the Republican Group's point of view it is not interesting about the text, which is rather neoliberal. If we want to highlight the ideological point of view, which in relation to human rights does matter, and very much for us, it is not interesting to vote in favour. We shall therefore vote against it. As I have just said, the expository part of this law seems to us to be good, but I suppose this law says more than it is written in it. In 50 seconds, I'll try to argue a little bit. For example, in Chapter 2, Article 10.2 is irrelevant because the paragraph has already been repealed. Article 11 can be improved. Article 2 worsens the current law by reducing the number of hours available and adding the recoverable character of the hours. Article 13 gives rise to the possibility for the employer to reject the reduction in working hours for reasons of legal custody when it is drafted as it stands. Chapter 3 is redundant. Chapter 4 reduces the mandatory uninterrupted weeks after delivery from six to two. In chapter 4, article 18 is less clear than the original law. Chapter 5 should include a right to benefit for risk during pregnancy and during the breastfeeding period. I have more arguments, then I'll pass it on. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u42	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u43	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, it is amazing that they set Almeida an example in cultural management the same day that he began to empty the offices of Medialab-Prado. You know a lot about selling thousands of gold, but not cultural management. Respect the project team, listen to Save the Lab and stop reproducing the false myth of the grant. [[Applauds]] Those who work in culture are workers, and you have masters in rotating doors. [[Rumors]] I'm on my way to the bill that the Citizens' Group brings us. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that we do not doubt the good intention of the spokesman in bringing this initiative; we do not doubt at all, and I say this clearly, because from here I will be harsh. This legislative proposal is addressed to families, but basic problems cannot be allowed. The problem of the approach of this rule is not solved by amendments, because the starting point is wrong. That's why we're going to vote against it. We need comprehensive reform in our legal system so that the reality of all families is collected, so that structural inequalities do not occur. We need egalitarian policies - I say this clearly, egalitarian policies - to ensure that all family models, in their diversity, are on an equal footing, so that we stop seeing how many people give up forming a family, as has been said, because of socio-economic impossibility. An example is Asturias, which mentioned the spokesperson for Forum Asturias. 62% of women of childbearing age would want to have one or two children but they can't even ask, according to the data given by the INE in 2019. But, look, those who look at the latest data from 2020 should also take into account that there is a pandemic through. I say that that kind of thing influences thinking about family projects. So, as you see, this reality is complex, and this makes it necessary to study in depth. Diagnosis at low birth cannot consist of a pair of mantras that are repeated. Therefore, in compliance with the Government agreement, the Ministry of Social Rights has long been designing a white paper, worked with the European Union, worked with all ministries and autonomous communities, in order to be able to have comparative studies and see how effective the measures carried out are. Failure to do this rigorously can lead us to vague or meaningless proposals, because your proposal is not a comprehensive proposal, which is what this country needs; your proposal is to amend the Law on Large Families to open up assumptions, and you yourselves quantify that it would be going to cover six million families, compared to the current 735,000. But where are many families left with assumptions that are not understood as special protection? Where are the homoparent families? Where are the families in conflict? Where are families with minors at risk? There are single-maritime families, and I use this term knowing that it is mostly women who lead these family models, but not all single-maritime families who need it. Where are the socio-economic criteria? Do they realize that they can be protecting, just because they are more in that family, those who have material conditions that are much more comfortable than those who are in a situation of real lack of protection in terms of benefits and leaving them without them? Indeed, I recognize the proposal, the effort and that it also has an appearance that leads to the thought that you are abandoning the neoliberal path of privatization and that in the end the system is going to give more rights than beneficence to those who, from the perspective of the meritocracy of your party, have not demonstrated the same because you have not made enough effort, but, ladies and gentlemen, I am not clear as to whether you are from the center or so neoliberal as to embrace the unsettled right; I am not clear and I do not know if you are clear, and I am not saying this for the last few days, but for the very text that we find ourselves. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u44	Your Honor, one second please. [[Pause]] Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u45	I say this in the text and because it seems that the conception of the materiality of families is obviating, that there is a lack of work and that there are problems which - I am sorry - are not being corrected by the amendments. The PeCAT spokesman used to say that Mr. Iglesias is leaving. Yes, but the government agreement remains, and in the end, that's what it's all about when it's in politics, isn't it? [[Applauds]] This Government works hard and committed, coordinated with the autonomous communities, a law of family diversity that knows, because it is transferred by many international bodies, which have situations of special vulnerability, which are no longer large families who are necessarily at the greatest risk of exclusion. It is a law with two objectives: the legal recognition of the different types of family structures and the determination of all benefits and services to which families are entitled according to their characteristics and level of income. It is a law that really collects and understands the concept of family, of families in their diversity. Diego's star explained to us well what postcards are about cities or villages: they are a fragmentation, they are a non-real representation of all that. Well, by the same, in that selection, in that frame and in that set of lights are also the canons of Western culture, cutting the family picture without scissors, with the look that sees and then reproduces. It says the far right that we don't like families on the left or communists or I don't know who; in any case they lie. We like them all, we like them all, we like families so much that we want to take away from the family institution that narrow costume that they have and inhabit it as each one we are, as each one we want and love each other, so I encourage them to see the work of directors of my generation who are addressing this issue in cinema, in the series, in fiction, because we do not give up the family, to be in one, to have one; see the work of Leticia Dolera, of Pilar Palomero, of Mar Coll, of Carla Simón. From the United We can in Congress and in the Government, our commitment is that all families have the same material conditions to exist, to develop, to be, that they do not remain in an impossible plan, that this does not mean living continuously at risk, that does not mean sacrificing physical or mental health. If you really care about this - of course the spokesman cares about this - I am convinced that we will be able to talk about it when we bring in the law that the government is preparing, a very important law. So, for millions of families, that's why we're doing the job rigorously. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u46	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Romero Vilches has the floor for the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has always been said that the family is the basic cell of society, and we recognise it in VOX. We see in a positive way that for once they bring to this rostrum the real problems that affect Spanish society, rather than those Byzantine issues that worry some politicians so much and have nothing to do with the reality of those who pay us the salary. According to the surveys, the family institution remains the most valued by the Spanish, despite the continuous attacks it has received in recent decades. The first thing we have to say is that we value positively the purpose of this initiative and some of the diagnoses that are made in it, but we also warn, Mrs Giménez, that we do not fully share the philosophy that promotes it and therefore disagree with some of its concrete measures, which justifies the amendments that we intend to introduce at the moment. First of all, we should all recognize the evidence that the reversal of the population pyramid is a real time bomb that can end not only the welfare state, but the same consistency of society as we know it today. Evidently, the decline in mortality is good news in itself, but for the common good it would be essential that this decline in mortality be compensated by an increase in birth rate that would guarantee generational relief. This is a real social emergency and not other initiatives that waste our strength uselessly. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, the main task of this project is that it does not at all address the need to try to strengthen family cohesion, despite the constant attacks it receives from the left with the lukewarmness and complicity of this so-called moderate centre. Ladies and gentlemen, we see an attitude of attack and prevention from the public authorities against half the population, with these widespread accusations of heteropatriarchy, structural machism and the presumption of guilt that you have cast on men and women who do not bend to their stereotypes, such as us, the women of VOX, women without complexes to whom consensus is not going to make progress. [[applause]] When from the public authorities it becomes ideal for women to come home alone and drunk, it seems that they are not betting on promoting family values. When our children are indoctrinated by telling them that the idea of love for life is an unrealistic romantic myth that harms women, they are not exactly being encouraged to be mothers. When in Spain more than 100,000 creatures are aborted a year and the state does not move a single muscle to help those mothers who need it to bring their children into the world, it is seen that human life is not among their priorities. [[applause]] So don't be surprised that the homes of lonely people are becoming more and more. Because, although many of you do not want to hear it, children come to this world when there are men and women who trust each other and commit themselves in the long term and in a stable way to raising their children. Because the upbringing of children requires close collaboration between father and mother for at least eighteen years. [[Applauds]] Clearly, if couples are volatile and precarious, very few women will be encouraged to have offspring. Therefore, what suits society is that there are many strong families who decide to have children. In order for this to happen, they must be granted all kinds of benefits, for example, tax benefits, incentives for family reconciliation, direct support per dependent child, increasing aid also from the second child, ladies and gentlemen. Because we do not understand how in the demographic winter that we suffer the Government is committed to penalizing motherhood; a government that calls itself a feminist, but cuts the pensions of mothers with more children; a government that calls itself a feminist, but rejects that mothers in ERTE can reconcile the maternity benefit, whose proposal brought VOX here last week, but was rejected. [[applause]] We see the proposal for the reconciliation of family and working life well, although there is still a long way to go in this regard. Nor should we be fooled, for in the rest of Europe there are such incentives and birth rates are not much higher than those in our country. By the way, thanks to its family policies only Hungary is achieving some positive results in revitalizing the family. The gentlemen of the Government could take an example. [[Applauds]] We believe that the gender pay gap is wrongly emphasized. That way of measuring the importance of work exclusively by the gross wage it obtains is a malicious and absurd simplification; because, ladies and gentlemen, when one chooses a profession not everyone has the sole objective of earning as much money as possible. Most people, both men and women, along with money, also look at the level of stress, the number of hours, the danger, the schedules, the responsibility and, also, what is called the personal vocation itself. [[Applauds]] These are complex decisions that individuals and families make on a case-by-case basis, according to their wishes and prospects, without the State having any legitimacy to divert people's vital projects in one sense or another. That of being a single parent family, as you call it, constitutes a situation of vulnerability, especially for those children who are raised without the presence of the father or mother figure in the home. And those people certainly deserve support, but that doesn't make them large families, no matter how hard you try to call them that. We believe that we must keep separate what are different realities, because one thing is the duty to protect vulnerable beings, something we totally agree on and, another, the phenomenon of birth.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u48	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u49	In short, we reiterate our readiness for dialogue in an initiative which we believe to be positive, but which is fraught with politically correct ideological prejudices and which we believe is not going to be too fruitful. We will support the consideration and try to ensure that our amendments are taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u50	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u51	Thank you, President. For the People's Party the family is one of the pillars on which our society hinges; it is the true pillar of the welfare state and therefore it deserves a real and comprehensive policy, in order to strengthen its social, legal and economic protection if they really do not want to leave anyone behind. Go ahead my appreciation and that of my group to the Spanish families who, at times as complex as those we are living, are the refuge of many Spaniards to the uncertainty and concern they are suffering as a result of the social and economic health crisis. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, has laudable objectives, very good will, but it lacks concreteness and budget. They present a text out of date because they do not take into account the latest Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on conciliation, the social context arising from COVID-19, co-responsibility as the main factor in the wage and labour gap, specific measures to reconcile in the rural environment how to tackle the demographic challenge without concrete measures to support birth, ageing and, therefore, the need to reconcile non-professional caregivers. Having a sick or dependent family member forces many women to leave their jobs. Conciliation must also go hand in hand with strengthening policies for the care of dependent or sick persons. It is a text without the principles of freedom, co-responsibility, cooperation, cross-cutting, awareness-raising, social awareness and equality in labour relations. And a plea, ladies and gentlemen, do not call us collective, do not collect us; women are not a collective, we are women, we are 50% of the population. [[Applauds]] People argue that reconciliation and family policies must seek the balance of professional and personal life, which must promote three points that this law forgets. The first point is women's participation in the labour market. The best policy is employment, there is nothing more exclusive than not having a job. With the People's Party there were 8 and a half million women working, and you are sitting with a government that has led to 437,000 women going to unemployment, a government that has made Spain the country of the European Union where unemployment among women has increased the most, and that which the minister promoted to vice president said it was forbidden to fire. They will bet on the three sides and will bet on women: participation, permanence and promotion of women in the labour market. The second point is co-responsibility and they have forgotten it in the text of the law - not in their speech, but in the text -; the equal sharing of responsibilities in the care of family members, who are mostly assumed by women. With the governments of the People's Party, telework was regulated for the first time, the reduction of the day, the breastfeeding permit, the paternity permit was extended, we approved the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, which included greater flexibility of the working day and the retrievable hours bag that now Citizens collect in this text. Some of your proposals can return women to care, to the home, and this must be avoided and studied flexible work formulas, paternity leave, parental leave, leave for carers, as the European directive points out. However, the Minister of Equality knows a great deal about co-responsibility. While the vice president sees series she resorts to her mother or babysitter, babysitter who, as we know, we pay all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You, Lords of Citizens, negotiate with those who fail to comply with your own pacts; you fail to comply with the coalition agreement to universalize access to children's education from 0 to 3 years with a public network and, in return, replace it with the Responsible Plan, a plan with insufficient budget, 200 million euros to three years and which does not envisage the creation of children's places. And, I say, where are the 65,000 children's education places from 0 to 3 years that President Sanchez committed? Ladies and gentlemen of citizens, you do not mention in this text the need to strengthen the provision of childcare services or the provision of services for long-term care. The third point would be the elimination of inequalities in income and wages. The governments of the People's Party narrowed the pay gap by almost 5 points and the gender gap by 14 points. The first law on measures to reconcile and eliminate the wage gap in Spain was adopted in Castile and León with a government of the People's Party and in consensus with the social dialogue and, in addition, we approved the maternity supplement to pensions. Yes, we were the first to recognize women's efforts and to compensate mothers, while you are allied with a government that has led to the greatest pension cut in the history of democracy for working mothers with two or more children. [[Applauds]] And yes, it has been said here today: we are before the most anti-social, anti-feminist and anti-family government that has suffered Spain; a government in which the Minister of Inclusion with one hand abolishes the child benefit and with the other cuts the maternity supplement in pensions; in which the Minister of Demography announces the exclusion of large families from the social bonus and in which the Minister of Labour discriminates against large families in the limitation of other benefits, such as unemployment benefit and ERTE. However, the palm is taken away by the absent vice president who with 30,000 dead in residences, and without visiting any, has cut the family protection leave by 183 million and has threatened the large families saying that you have to take into account the income and not just the number of children. It is clear what vice president Iglesias prefers: the policy of the barter and the laudazal to solve the problems of the people.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u52	Your Honor, your time is up. Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u53	This is the line of deplorable achievements, they violate their covenants and abandon people. However, we will support your initiative, but I wonder if your new partners will do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Rodríguez Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, proposal for a comprehensive law on protection and support for families. In the light of the wording of this bill, it may seem inclusive, plural and novel; however, in the course of my presentation I will go into detailing the reasons why the position of the Socialist Group is against it. I am almost convinced that for all the people who are here the concept of family starts from the same idea and the same way of understanding it: the family is the fundamental human group for the growth and integral realization of people and communities, it is the cell of society, it promotes the values, beliefs and ways of being and expressing oneself of each member that composes it. It develops the affective, nutritious and protective functions, but also of belonging, identity, transmission of culture and socialization of its members. As I said, we can start from the same base, however, from the socialist ranks the concept of family advances at the hand of the advancement of society. Socialists and socialists have diversity in DNA and we are committed to a family law that responds to the reality of different family structures and takes into account their needs. We must adapt aid and benefits to the situation of need with objective and achievable criteria; not with populist promises that intoxicate the population, taking into account, therefore, the size, number of members, characteristics and family income. This is how the different family realities freely chosen are protected. For example, support measures for the adoption of LGBTI families and the recognition of the membership of lesbian women's couples are sufficient. [[Applauds]] Diversity must be a rule by which political formations work. It is intolerable that, despite the progress that society is making, there are retrograde, rancid and conservative political movements that want to curtail freedom and that want to return to exclusive models, where to bring society as a whole together in a family and social model that is not real and that causes great internal personal conflicts in those who do not fit in with these forms. The Socialist Group intends to promote the development of a family diversity law to improve support for families and to recognize and protect the different family structures that coexist in our society, addressing their unique needs, especially the most vulnerable. Although some of you who occupy that seat find it difficult to accept it, the traditional and unified family model has long been surpassed and has given way to various models of coexistence that express personal freedom and are examples of the enormous diversity that our society has. This is the Spain that the Socialists want, the pioneer Spain in egalitarian marriage, the Spain in which many different models belong and the Spain in which with this government we will not leave anyone behind. If we start from the idea that a family is the union of people who share a vital project, of common existence, which is long-lasting, in which strong feelings of belonging are generated, in which there is personal commitment among its members and in which intense relationships of intimacy, reciprocity and dependence are established, what matters who make up that family. [[Applauds]] Expulsion, ladies and gentlemen, of prejudices and stereotypes which only generate discomfort and which are the basis of discriminatory attitudes, because they can and do have serious consequences for coexistence and even become a mobile absurdity to employ violence and aggression. They banish obsolete thoughts and phrases like these: if they don't have children, how will it be a family?The children of gays will be safe gays; she's crazy, how is she going to be a single mother?What example is he going to transmit? Against this, the Socialist Group's firm commitment: families without children, two-parent families with children, homoparent families, reconstituted or composite families, single-parent families, single-parent families, foster families, adoptive families and extended families, all different, but all families. [[Applauds]] Because socialists and socialists do not understand a society where we do not all remain and because we are aware that this great diversity of families and all the types of current families that exist have so many capacities in terms of meeting their basic needs. We cannot consider this proposal for a law which we are debating today as a comprehensive rule, since it does not address the diversity of the families that exist. In addition, the proposals included cover a wide and complex range of rules that require a detailed analysis of their impact and budget cost to be modified, details that are not reflected in the proposed legislation, and an economic and financial study is necessary. Others, such as those reflected in the budgetary amendment to the current article regulating procedural progress in the exercise of the actions corresponding to the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, do not provide anything new or establish judicial guardianship in areas already covered.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u56	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u57	Finished. So I ended up echoing one of the messages of the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, on the day of his investiture, where he was already moving his commitment to the family: All kinds of families will be protected and resources mobilized for families at risk of poverty. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u58	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u59	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte, on the creation of a guarantee mechanism for the rural environment and societies in the design and implementation of laws and regulatory development, as well as in all policies of the Government and the autonomous communities. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we come here today to talk about a tool that we want to urge the government to propose to assess the impact of legislation and other administrative measures on the rural environment. We have brought this non-law proposal for reasons, first of all, of justice with thousands of people and territories who have rarely come to this House, and also for political reasons, to strengthen the rule of law, to deepen democracy, and to improve, adapt and evaluate public policies. The rural guarantee mechanism that we advocate must begin to change the reality of the obstacles to development and living conditions in the rural areas of Spain; it must generate equal services and opportunities in the rural environment and treat their societies and enterprises, adapting them to their specific condition and their complex situation; as well as overcoming the consequent vision that has existed so far in the media, social and political fields, a negative vision of inner Spain, a reality and a vision that identified us as problematic spaces, as areas that only demanded investment when in fact decades ago they were forgotten. A vision and a reality that refers to my province, Teruel, much of Aragon and many territories of emptied Spain. To transform rural areas, so that from a new vision they become areas of opportunity, as we demand, we need to put in place a new way of doing. To that end, we must move forward in line with the plenary agreement that this House took on 24 June 2020, urging the need to create a state pact. And in relation to this rural guarantee mechanism, the political foundations on which we are inspired are, for example, the Spanish Constitution itself, which recognizes it in its article 9: the equality of all Spaniards within the framework of a social state, that is, a real, effective and material equality for which the public authorities must provide the conditions and remove the obstacles. Similarly, article 131, which requires planning general economic activity to meet collective needs, balance and harmonize regional and sectoral development. Or Article 138, which says that the State will guarantee the effective realization of the principle of solidarity enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution, ensuring an adequate and fair economic balance between the different parts of the Spanish territory, and adds: taking into account in particular the circumstances of the insular event, and to what extent we have come that it should now also include the rural environment, as the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union does in Article 174. However, despite the roundness of these articles, reality shows to what extent these articles on rights and guarantees are not fulfilled satisfactorily in many territories of Spain. Deficits in services or quality of services, as well as deficiencies in health, secondary education, administrative services, understaffing or understaffing, for example, in Social Security or in the Civil Guard, mean that a demographic with very serious population loss, with high ageing and imbalances in its structure augur difficult demographic prospects for many peoples, even for many regions. The major infrastructure constraints make us have a difficult physical accessibility, personal mobility and the transport of goods are complex and the poor management of the railway service isolates us, as has happened recently in Teruel with the conventional train and in so many provinces in a similar way. Telecommunications also occurs when service restrictions are imposed, because barriers are created for rural enterprises that limit the growth of their rural productivity. There are also insurmountable obstacles to access to information, education systems, administrative efforts for everyday life, leisure and culture and a limited number of opportunities to create employment and training. Ladies and gentlemen, with these and other examples we are talking - we have been heard many times already - about inequality. This is because of the inadequacy of the services provided by the administrations and also because of the historical failure of public policies. Public policies in general lack territorial meaning and do not understand the differences in space areas, they do not know how to differentiate between rural and urban. That is why, in this rural guarantee mechanism, and in line with the policies that have been implemented since the 2016 Cork 2.0 Declaration in some European countries, and in line with the thrust of the European Union itself, we want to urge policy makers to implement a series of recommendations that include, as the European Conference on Rural Development itself does,'systematically review sectoral and macroeconomic policies from a rural perspective, taking into account the real and potential impacts and their impact on the development, growth and employment prospects, social well-being and environmental quality of rural areas and their communities'. The content of the 2016 Declaration 'A Better Life in the Rural World' is structured around ten points that I will briefly mention: (a) promoting prosperity in rural areas; (b) strengthening value chains; (c) investing in rural viability and environmental habitability; (d) preserving the rural environment; (e) managing natural resources; (f) promoting climate action; (g) promoting knowledge and innovation; (h) improving rural governance; (i) improving implementation and simplifying policies; and (e) improving results, and accountability. One of the objectives of this declaration is to ensure that rural communities are heard and that their demands, needs and peculiarities are taken into account both in formulating policies and in drafting public administration budgets. All these recommendations conclude with the need for the design of Government programmes and strategies to reflect the needs and aspirations of rural communities. Likewise, it must be an obligation of the same to recognize the value of these societies, their contribution to social identity, their contribution to the care of the territory, their drive to sustainable development, and to value the potential of the zones to provide innovative, integrated and sustainable solutions. This set of objectives should guide the rural guarantee mechanism to proactively include rural communities and their potential in the policy design phase. This treatment is part of the policies of the European Commission, where it has created a Vice-President of Democracy and Demography who is working on these issues. It has been implemented by the United Kingdom, Finland and Sweden since 2014. It is a model that also applies in territories similar to ours and is beginning to apply even in outlying communities like Navarra. That is why I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by calling for your support for this GNP which we will be discussing today, but which we already registered on 5 March 2020 with the Committee on the Transitional Ecology, because the rural guarantee mechanism is essential for changing the direction of this country, facing one of its major problems, depopulation and territorial imbalance, and for the recharging of rural areas as spaces of opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u61	Your Honor, you must finish now, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u62	In short, it is a tool for a cross-cutting policy that must ensure the adaptation and revision of policies, laws, budgets and programmes. We are faced with a central, human and political objective: the equality of all citizens in Spain, including those belonging to rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u64	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Addressing in this House measures for the rural world, talking about its present and its future is always good news. Spain cannot advance without its villages, without its villages, without hundreds and hundreds of municipalities suffering from depopulation. The initiative we are discussing, the creation of a rural guarantee mechanism, is already known in countries in our environment, such as the United Kingdom and Sweden, and even in more remote countries, such as Canada and Australia. The explanatory statement for this initiative refers to the European Conference on Rural Development, a conference which ended with a statement, the first point of which, on the promotion of rural prosperity, reads: 'There should be a rural guarantee mechanism to ensure that this aspect is reflected in the Union's strategies and policies'. Of course. If we demand this within the framework of the European Union, it is more than reasonable - I would say even essential - that we want the same for our country. The Citizens' Parliamentary Group believes that the best way to meet the demographic challenge is through a comprehensive rural development policy that takes into account the particular challenges facing the Spanish rural environment in all its dimensions. To achieve this, the first step is fundamental. We need to understand how regulation, sometimes without realizing it, is designed by and for the city and can have a different impact on the rural environment. I must also say that we have not finished sharing some of the aspects of this initiative, but there will already be an opportunity to discuss how the rural guarantee mechanism should be put into practice. In fact, we think that Spain needs a system of evaluation of public policies both before and after they are put in place, so, ladies and gentlemen, although we have some concrete contributions to make on this proposal, we believe that it is now important to support its implementation. We will vote in favour because we cannot forget the rural world and it is that talking about the depopulation of emptied Spain is also talking about equality, because the Spaniards who live in the villages have the right to the same public services and the same policies as the Spaniards who live in the cities. One of our obligations is to work to ensure that the equality of all people is real and effective, so from this rostrum I want to acknowledge all those men and women who are committed to rural development, to the development of their peoples and their regions with small initiatives that are able to advance the progress of their neighbours and of the people who are working there, people who dedicate all their efforts to preserving a cultural heritage of incalculable value, entrepreneurial people who grow up in the face of adversity to offer the rest of society a window to our past, yes, but they also want a worthy future. Citizens will continue to keep in mind all those Spaniards who cry out that we should not forget them. We will continue to support and present initiatives that can really help you in your day-to-day life and, of course, we will follow very closely your recovery from the crisis caused by the coronavirus. And it is that the pandemic has reminded us of the importance of our livestock sector, our agri-food sector and our rural world. How many people have come to this rural world to work so that they can take care of their own in the best possible way? Citizens believe that this can be a first step and we will continue to work - we have done so - and to introduce amendments to this non-law proposal, which we believe will arrive at a good place with a transactional in which Teruel Existe is working. As I said, in conclusion, all our recognition, our support and, of course, all our work for the rural world. They deserve it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u66	Thank you, President. I'm Isabel Franco, for those who don't know me. I'm not from Murcia, I'm from Seville, I'm from Andalusia, and I'll never be a transfugue MP. [[Applauds]] First of all, I wanted to point out that in the United Nations We can understand that all the actions and initiatives that place the situation in rural areas and the problems that the population living in what has been called Empty Spain finds in order to develop its daily life project are always good. But he also wanted to warn of a danger that has been in operation for decades and that it is a cry in the streets, in the houses, in the shops, in the jobs and in the bars of the rural areas. It is a problem that institutions never talk about and neither are they talking about in this Congress. I think we need to break the silence today and talk about it. The European Union Rural Guarantee Mechanism is a recommendation of the Cork 2.0 Declaration which aims to ensure that rural areas have access to the design of rural policy programmes and strategies. These are frameworks for the European Union's participation with much - too - institution and little involvement of civil society and the rural population itself. Therefore, there is a risk that they will fall into a broken bag and it would be an absolute failure to become an inoperative policy designed solely to cover the file. This would only lead to further political disaffection in rural areas, and it would be right. But it does not just happen in the European Union. In Spain, the right - the People's Party that fills its mouth so much talking about the rural - locked in a drawer the Law 45/2007, of 13 December, for the sustainable development of the rural environment, mutilating the possibilities of making real policies with the participation of the affected populations in order to seek the longing development of the rural areas. What must also be said in the institutions is that what rural areas need are real policies of investment in economics, infrastructure, telecommunications and public services, and no more beautiful words or empty programmes. That's what we have to come to. The reality is that rural areas live in a situation that is absolutely unbearable. The concentration of financial, tourism, industrial and commercial activity in the large population centres and in their suburbs and institutional abandonment especially complicates life in the small rural areas and brings us situations so terrible that, while the average unemployment rate in Spain was around 16,5 % in 2017 - when we are recovering from the 2008 crisis - in the rural areas it was 19% according to EAPN data. The lack of services in rural areas is so brutal that the services sector weighs 40% compared to 72% in the urban environment. I would therefore like to stress that the implementation of ultra-liberal policies - in particular, in its privatizing expression of public services, whether with speculative projects in agriculture or in black industry, such as mining projects that are not desired by local populations - is a ram of destruction that operates more virulently in the living conditions of our rural areas, exacerbating the process of depopulation and impoverishment. For the speculating rural economy, it is only profitable if it is likely to form part of a model of speculative exploitation through super-intensive agriculture, micro-farms or, in relation to the private sector, through privatization of public services, whether hospitals, social services or telephones, and thus increasing inequality with regard to areas with the highest concentration of population. We must continue to work and invest in rural areas, and it will be essential for European funds to go to our people. We cannot continue to invest only in large urban centres, because it is not only unfair but also antisocial. We welcome this proposal with sympathy, although we have greatly missed a feminist vision. But they are not only worth beautiful and empty words for the rural environment. The rural area cannot continue to be abused - I finish, Mr President -. Rural areas demand rights, opportunities, self-government and real policies. Therefore, we must continue to work, because what we love must be taken care of. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Requejo Novoa has the floor. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some of them on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u68	With your coming, President. Rural is not synonymous with depopulation, although in Spain it lacks little. His non-legislative proposal does not clarify who is going to form this mechanism or who is going to depend on it, since it touches the autonomous sphere, or especially how much it will cost us. It's all in the air. What did you get with your previous motion? Perhaps the ridiculous budget of EUR 19 million for demographic challenge? Part of the ministry that will solve everything, Ecological Transition, 12,307 million euros. Demographic challenge, EUR 19 million. Is this the reality of what matters to this government in terms of rural and depopulation? [[Applauds]] The facts confirm that. In the campaign, Dr. Sánchez approached Zamora twice and promised twice. The A-11 motorway from Portugal to Zamora lacks 70 kilometres, after thirty years of waiting, valued at 120 million euros, but this year's General State Budgets have budgeted only 400 000 euros. Another project: Mount the Queen, move a regiment to this empty barracks. Of €82 million, only €350,000 is budgeted. I asked the Minister of Defense and she told me there was no money. On the other hand, there was to rescue the Venezuelan airline Plus Ultra or to increase the budget of the Ministry of Equality by 128%. [[Applauds]] Is this the degree of compliance Mr. Guitarte wants for his guarantee mechanism? Little remains of his urgent motion, nor of his star plan 100-30-30 on mobility and digital broadband, which could so much help to return urban population to the rural area, nor of the plan of urgent measures for territorial rebalancing, to be agreed in three months, nor of the state pact against depopulation in six months - we have already ten -. To top it off, the Treasury did not see a differentiated taxation for unpopulated areas viable. That said, the gender, empowerment and equality package has been fully approved. [[Applauds]] This government and its partners do not want to know that the main problem in Spain is the lack of birth. Castilla y León has lost 151 000 inhabitants in the last ten years and rural Spain 10% in the last eight years. The census of Zamora decreases every year in almost 2,000 people, and what happens today in Zamora will happen tomorrow throughout Spain. [[Applauds]] Today in Spain more children are born than in any of the years of the Civil War; at least 150,000 fewer babies are born, almost half of the children than in 1976. The ageing of the population is also a European problem, but there they implement aid schemes for the family and for birth, and not here. In Spain, having children increases the risk of social exclusion. Raising a child in Spain has a great cost, at least 100,000 euros until the age of 18. Society has to be aware of it and reward it if we want someone to pay the pensions tomorrow. Who can believe the Toledo Pacts without a stable population pyramid? It is urgent to identify areas affected by depopulation, to be recognised by Europe and to allow for differentiated taxation and an aid plan, in accordance with Article 174 of the Treaty on the foundation of the European Union. So far, only the provinces of Teruel, Soria and Cuenca could benefit theoretically. The depopulated Spain are not these three provinces, there are forty-four. However, this February the European Court seems to have accepted the municipality as a statistical unit. There is a map accepted by the Ombudsman in 2018 that could be applied. This is what our amendment is about. Rural people should not be expected to follow the same patterns as cities. Its originality must be respected and it must be recognized that it is immersed in nature. Agriculture needs its own meaningful and sustainable development. In the primary sector, as a foundation of the rural world, the profitability and modernization of agricultural and livestock holdings must be promoted. Man and nature must be balanced, achieving a natural and attractive environment that invites us to return to the countryside. The countryside cannot be a messy back yard of the city where everything the city needs, without counting the population. Bermillo de Sayago, project of sixty-six 220-metre-high turbine generators. Is this what we want for the countryside? Some politicians say that agriculture is hardly important, as it is only 3% of GDP. This contempt does not add up, one should first think of the whole economy that is created...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u69	Your time is up. You must conclude, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u70	All right. The promised thing is half due, and due entirely if the one who promises you lies, Mr. Guitarte. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u71	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Navarro Lacoba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Guitarte, just a few months ago he was bringing to this House a motion resulting from an ambitious urgent inquiry, as he urged political forces with parliamentary representation to urgently adopt a state pact for a vertebrate Spain. My parliamentary group believed that you were thus securing the vote in favour of President Sánchez's investiture. Since in our vocation of public service, we support this pact of State against depopulation. We had to push for a state policy precisely to vertebrate Spain, whose foundations the People's Party had already prepared, which we had come down precisely to approve a strategy for the demographic challenge, to close the digital divide of rural Spain with the Plan 300 megabits per second per hundred percent of the territory. In addition, I remind you that it was our president, Married, who first offered the state pact against depopulation. Regrettably, Mr. Guitarte, we did not delay anything in realizing the null and void descent that you have with the minister of the thing and the fourth vice-president of the Government, Mrs. Rivera, who presents in her balance sheet a rotundo zero. Besides, I don't say it, the headlines say it. It has been the ABC who said that this woman devotes no more than three out of every hundred meetings to the demographic challenge and that, moreover, from her cabinet it is said that the state pact against depopulation, which was committed to Teruel Existe, is now not on the political agenda. Mr Guitarte, your balance sheet also has to be zero in terms of depopulation, but what is even worse is that you are being complicit in this government's outbursts, and that is regrettable. Spain does not yet have a strategy to tackle the demographic challenge. There are already three years of socialist government, and the strategy should be the framework for diagnosis and action, but it is not. Why do you not press, Mr Guitarte, to force the government to draw up and approve the strategy, which is vital for this policy? In addition, the billionaire State General Budgets have gone ahead with their vote and, however, only EUR 19 million has been allocated to the General Secretariat of the Demographic Challenge. But what is even more regrettable is that the European reconstruction funds which are the hope of this country, despite the Government's commitment to sharing them with vice and obscurantism, do not have a specific heading for the demographic challenge either. We must align ourselves for these purposes: digitisation, the green economy, sustainability, territorial cohesion, employment opportunities must also be for a Spain that is depopulated. This afternoon, Mr. Guitarte, you bring here an initiative that greatly reduces those that you brought just a few months ago. From a state pact, it simply asks for a rural guarantee mechanism. And it is not that the People's Party feels bad, we are in favour of evaluating policies and having a rural perspective, but that is the work of the Government. That is precisely what the minister of the branch, Mrs Rivera, should be doing, who has to introduce a strategic assessment of the impact of her policies, in collaboration with her advisory councils and also with the participation of the autonomous communities. Mr. Guitarte, the fight against the demographic challenge is urgent, and urgent from the government. That is what Mrs Rivera has to do, to govern, but, of course, that is perseverance, initiative, agreement, negotiation, leadership and budget, and from all this Mrs Ribera suffers. She is rather sectarian and authoritarian, she has shown it precisely with the inclusion of the wolf in the list of protected species, putting the survival of the rural world at risk. If you want to do something about depopulation, Mr Guitarte, join the amendments that the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled this afternoon on its initiative. Truly it is with us that you will be able to do something with. Not only does he represent Teruel sitting there, he is representing all the Spaniards and all the territories that suffer from depopulation. [[Applauds]] That is why we have requested, first of all, a budget, with an exclusive allocation from the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. We already did. If there is a budget today, it is thanks to the Valcárcel amendment of the European People's Party, which managed to allocate 5% of the ERDF funds precisely to the sparsely populated territories. If you want us to start talking about the assessment of the effects on the territory of legislative and budgetary measures, let Minister Ribera already bring to the House an impact of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, precisely on rural territory. And let us know what sustainable development is going to be and what guarantees it offers in terms of socio-economic development and employment for the territory. Finally, we have amended so that the lady from 'no to hunting', from 'no to bulls', respects the traditional uses of rural territory because she is a guarantee of their survival, protects their heritage and biodiversity and does not take action against the criteria of the autonomous communities that precisely host this most populous Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u73	Your Honor, your time has passed.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u74	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u75	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fagundez Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this parliamentary term it has been the will of this government to bet on the rural environment; a determined bet that is born of a strong conviction, and that is that it cannot be that the rights of citizens depend on the number of inhabitants per square kilometer that has the territory where they reside. This statement, which seems so obvious and so clear and simple, is not so obvious because during the past legislatures, the ones governed by the People's Party, what was a setback thanks to their policies of cutting back on the rural world and depriving it of basic services such as education or health in a rural territory that so much needs it. Mr Guitarte, I agree with you that we need more means, more public policies, more opportunities in the rural world, but what is also needed is political will, and that is what I want to convey to you today in this rostrum by the Government of Spain and this parliamentary group. Here the President of the Government said just a year ago, in the investiture debate, that the challenges facing the rural world must be taken as a global issue, affecting all the institutions, starting with the smallest municipality and ending with the highest institution of the European Union, because with a great global agreement it will be the only way to achieve this. And this is where this government is going to lead these kinds of policies. The Government has taken a step forward with the creation for the first time of a specific ministry, such as the Ministry of Population Challenge. It has done so by incorporating EUR 25 billion into the budget, gentlemen of the People's Party, EUR 25 billion of the European Recovery Plan, with projects focused on the economic revival of areas affected by depopulation, access to services on equal terms for our municipalities, digital connectivity, the boost of housing or for tourism sustainability plans, our ecological and quality tourism. It will also do so by improving legislative action, and we will adopt the national strategy in the face of the demographic challenge that will undoubtedly lead to legislative progress for these territories at risk of depopulation. And we did so this morning in the Council of Ministers, approving the Plan of Measures for the Demographic Challenge, EUR 10 billion, the largest investment ever made by the rural world, 10% of that Recovery Plan, which, gentlemen of the PP, the government is planning to invest in the rural world. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not only be the action of the Government that drives these measures in the rural world. We will also do so from this parliamentary group and in this House with legislative action. We will bring in the coming weeks the adoption of the basic statute of the small municipality, an initiative that aims to implement a series of measures to improve the administrative functioning of these small municipalities of our country, to improve their recruitment procedures - which they so much need - and to improve the provision of services that our small municipalities provide to citizens. In short, that all services provided by the General Administration of the State, the Autonomous Communities or the local entities be provided and reached on equal terms to all municipalities. Another of the initiatives that we will soon bring to this House will be the assessment of the demographic impact, so that all the rules of law and regulations will carry it. A bill aimed at ensuring that the demographic challenge appears in a cross-cutting manner in any of the public policies that this Government is going to take forward. In short, the action of the Government, on the one hand, and the action of this parliamentary group, on the other, both with a single objective: to move towards a more just country, a country in which we are able to implement measures that reduce territorial and social imbalances, a project of a country that undoubtedly guarantees equal opportunities in any part of our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, the rural environment is asking for opportunities. Our commitment - as I said before - to this parliamentary group and to the Government of Spain is a firm commitment to our Government and to the rural world. I therefore assure you that this parliamentary group is going to live up to the needs that rural territory is asking for right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u77	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. We have today a non-law proposal that Mr Guitarte has brought to us which, rather than a non-law proposal, in the background is a complaint, it is an appeal, it is a cry, I am not going to say desperate, but it is to draw attention to a sector, an area or an environment more than once unfortunately forgotten. It is a proposal that is not understandable and understandable, although it is not easy to solve, because it clearly sets out the situation, explains what has happened, but the approaches that are made to solve it are not always the most accurate. The situation is well known, everyone has raised it in this rostrum: depopulation, low birth rate, absence of industrial initiative, exodus of people and activities, and, in the background, the origin of everything, a late rural development full of deficiencies. The absence of agrarian activity or the problems that agrarian activity has generated, have triggered then everything else, let's call it the force that the center has brought for depopulation are elements that we will not repeat now, because, even, a whole presentation and an activity has been generated in this Congress with the theme of depopulation, we even have a ministry dedicated to the demographic challenge, although they are two quite different issues the demographic challenge, depopulation and birth, which are related, of course, but it is not the same. In any case, there is a similar situation in many European countries. Today, it is clear that cities are becoming larger, the coast is drawing more and more attention, and the centre is becoming more and more depopulated, more abandoned and more empty. The Cork Declaration, which the proposer himself puts to us here as the basis of his request, is obviously a declaration in defence of rural development in Europe, and I believe it is fundamental, basic, and an appeal for all, which ensures that this aspect is reflected in the strategies and policies of the Union, which is what he calls for, the articulation of a rural mechanism, as Mr Guitarte said. But, they also say in the Cork Declaration that integrated approaches to the development and strengthening of rural value chains and local productive networks should focus on Union policies in these areas, and provide fair and transparent conditions for contractual relations within the supply chain. Today we are dealing with the food chain law, which has to do with all that. But there are more issues, investments in rural areas, generating added value for society, bridging the digital divide, encouraging the generation of environmental public goods, making sustainable management of natural resources, and an urgent need to address the challenge of climate change, among other issues. All these approaches that are made in that Cork Declaration, at least in Euskadi we had that vision when we put forward the Law on Sustainable Development for the Rural Environment, because we understand that this guarantee mechanism to which this non-law proposal refers, based - as I said - on the Cork Declaration, is also what permeates the proposed law on rural development of Euskadi. It consists of rural proofing - which you quote, precisely - putting a lens that analyses the impact of different policies in rural areas. That is, that it is a kind of cross-cutting element, an umbrella element, which serves to ensure that all policies that arise have that view of rural and rural needs. We fully agree with that view. We believe that it is basic and fundamental and, as I have mentioned, in Euskadi we have done so. [[The lady]] But there are a number of problems in the complaint that you make, because in the solutions that you raise it is not all or nothing. I believe that emphasis should be placed on the defence of those who have made those policies. Therefore, I am going to defend the one who has applied it, because you seem not to give so much importance to the egg, forgiveness, to the outside, in the egg we do agree. It is important to take into account who is responsible for this, when it is up to him and how he has developed it when he is up to him; and I believe that, more than once, many of the public administrations have not been successful in meeting these challenges. We believe that inequality has to be overcome, of course it does. In your reading of the article of the Constitution, I do not fully agree with your interpretation, because what you say is that you cannot treat it unequally in the same circumstances.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u79	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u80	I'm done, President. We must defend that there are no policies of inequality, but not by harming those who have done so, but by denouncing those who have not done so. We shall vote in favour. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u82	Thank you, Madam President. We agree on the objective of more public support to develop a rural environment with vitality and quality of life, but beyond the fact that the proposals seem too generic to us, we do not think it is good to forget three essential aspects in addressing solutions to rural depopulation. The first is the fact that there is not a reality in the rural world, but different realities that need to be managed with different criteria as well. The reality of Galicia, with a dispersed habitat, with the predominance of small farms and livestock, needs its own solutions, since we have already seen on many occasions how to legislate or manage with uniform criteria for different realities on many occasions not only does not solve problems, but increases inequities. Secondly, the fact that rural vitality is directly related to the possibility of decent living from agricultural activity and, therefore, also to public policies in this area. In the case of Galicia we have suffered from the entry of the Spanish State into the European Union - at that time the European Common Market - a process called conversion especially in the agricultural sector, which was, however, a genuine dismantling of our agriculture, and which involved the disappearance of 90 000 small farms and livestock. We can imagine the effect this had on the loss of economic activity, but also on the depopulation of the rural world. Even today, the absence of adequate public policies, both from the Galician Government and from the Spanish Government, hampers our rural development. Today, the BNG recorded an initiative to stop the construction of three wind farms in the areas of Ourense, Lugo and O Bierzo, which have a brutal impact on our natural environment and on the affected communities, without any benefit in our country, but rather greater profits for a large multinational in the sector, in this case Norwegian. It is not the kind of activity that the rural is carrying out, as is not the caspian recipe that the People's Party of Hunting and Bulls has just brought us here again.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u83	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u84	Finished. Thirdly, the fact that a living rural requires adequate services...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u85	Mr. Rego, you have to finish now.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u86	...to make possible standards of dignity, life and well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u87	Thank you, Mr. Rego. Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor for the same parliamentary group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u88	Thank you, President. We share the assessment made in this non-legislative proposal as to the content, conclusions and objectives of the Cort Declaration. The non-legislative proposal we are discussing calls on the Government to create a guarantee mechanism for the rural environment and societies in the design and implementation of laws and policy development, as well as in all policies of the Government and the autonomous communities. In Catalonia we know that from different administrations policies are being promoted along the lines proposed by the non-law proposal, for example, the Department of Territori i Sostenibilitat developed a pilot test of the Rural Housing Promotion Programme. This measure aims to make it easier for people and families to settle in rural areas. Act No. 18/2001 of 31 December 2001 on Agricultural Guidance, the Department of Agriculture, deals with and analyses the power of the rural environment and establishes a society that is increasingly concerned about the integrity of the environment and the territorial balance. The Diputació de Lleida, with the Municipal Cooperation Plan for the Financing of Investments 2020-2021, with 19 million euros, and the Plan for the Financing of Investments in Health Matters, with 15 million euros, uses in the criteria of sharing positive discrimination and prioritizes the municipalities under 500 inhabitants, which have a population between 500 and 1000 and the mountain municipalities of the most populous area of the Pyrenees. One of the objectives of the Cork Declaration is to ensure that rural communities are heard and that their demands, needs and peculiarities are taken into account, both in formulating policies and in drafting public administration budgets. From the rural environment we have been so eager to claim to be heard. We need people with equal opportunities, municipalities with services, schools, medical centres, libraries, new technologies, connections, telecommunications, infrastructure. It is necessary to review the urban regulations affecting the rural territory in order to adapt them to the singularities of the territory and to ensure the continuity of agricultural and livestock farms, engines of the rural environment. We must ensure that young people can work for a future in rural areas, with fiscal incentives. In short, we need policies based on rural reality, to listen, to know about concerns and needs, and then to legislate, always respecting competences. We will support the non-legislative proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. The Cork Declaration highlights the importance of maintaining an agricultural and rural policy in the European Union that promotes the economy, environmental management, biodiversity and social integration in rural areas; it also stresses the need to improve the development of rural areas through innovative, inclusive and sustainable solutions. With regard to the GNP that we have here today, we look at what the benefits of the rural guarantee mechanism would be and what we believe should include. The rural mechanism should aim to bring benefits not only to rural communities but also to society as a whole, as rural areas were exceptionally located to provide solutions to multiple social challenges. The rural guarantee mechanism should promote solutions that benefit employment and rural growth and also contribute to improving access to basic services. The efficiency of any tool is measured by the ability of the hand that handles it, so we have to make sure that the tool is not only used, but is also well used, and here we emphasize the principle of subsidiarity. The tools that are proposed must be defined at the territorial level, since from the proximity it is from where the best solutions are proposed, which in the end are more effective in relation to the objective sought. Too often we think that when investing in urban areas, there are many more citizens who benefit from investment. It is therefore important that our policies have the capacity to improve the lives of all citizens, and this is precisely what the rural guarantee mechanism should help us to achieve: that it benefits the whole population. If we want it to work, it must put in place measures for economic development and diversification, equalize living conditions between urban and rural areas and thus stop the rural exodus and the loss of young people. How can you do that? We propose seven points: one, enhancing the rural environment to provide innovative, integrated and sustainable solutions, with economic prosperity, resource management and, most importantly, social inclusion and rooting for migrants; responding to the growing demand for healthy food, consumers; giving fair and transparent conditions in contractual relations within the supply chain; seeking first and foremost to bridge the digital divide and to develop the opportunities offered by digitisation and connectivity in rural areas; promoting the quality of rural life and meeting young people's aspirations for diverse and well-paid jobs, thus facilitating generational relevancy in the rural environment; enhancing local economic development with ecotourism, healthy lifestyles and the promotion of natural space for leisure; sustainable production of renewable and biomaterial energy, putting into operation adequate investment systems, giving priority to the development of the circular economy, and the last point, being aware of the importance of farmers and forestry in the configuration of landscapes, as primary providers of food and environmental goods and services. In short, there is great potential in rural areas to develop new and more sustainable value chains. Let us join the initiative of the intelligent peoples, in which they collaborate policies in different fields. This is the essence of the Cork Declaration, focusing on achieving results for all citizens from our rural environment. It is very important to achieve these improvements and to enhance the rural environment, because, if not, if these rural entrepreneurs do not have the right conditions to develop their businesses, we will not be able to release this potential located in the territory and no one will benefit from it. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal from the Republican Group. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guitarte, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u92	Let's introduce a transactional.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u93	All right, Mr. Guitarte. We shall therefore be awaiting the compromise that has been announced. - the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the fulfilment of articles 27.1 and 27.2 of the Spanish Constitution and the promotion of freedom of thought and the development of the critical capacity of pupils. [[File number 162/000074]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u94	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on compliance with article 27.1 and 27.2 of the Spanish Constitution and the promotion of freedom of thought and the development of the critical capacity of students. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Martínez Seijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u95	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the middle of the 21st century in a leading European country in social rights and freedoms, and we can assume that we have a tolerant, supportive, pluralistic and diverse society. But if we bring this initiative today, it is because the far right does not seem to agree with this model of democracy and society, and they want to start changing things for education. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether the other parliamentary groups, the other right-wing groups and some other groups will allow it, because if they allow that Trojan horse inside they play the game to the far right and their cultural war, and they help undermine the foundations of our democracy. Look, parental pin or - as I like to define it - educational censorship is nothing but a use and instrumentalization of education, and what is worse, of the training of boys and girls, and, for what? To impose their most ideological thesis on the other right, that of the PP and Citizens, and subject them to a blackmail that is based on child educational censorship at cost or in exchange for government and/or budgets, that is, pure and harsh instrumentalization, and for this they have no modesty in weakening and perforating our social and democratic state of law. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, it seems that in Murcia they had understood this, but apparently there are some who have not yet. What are they going to do in other autonomous communities? What are you going to do in Andalusia? What are they going to do in Madrid in the future? They act like genuine liberals and not as payoffs of the worst right. [[Applauds]] And ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you manipulate the word freedom because you proclaim freedom while restricting it. As an example, they veto a minister to give a talk at an educational center and at the same time assume that she is going to indoctrinate; they call for freedom, for whom? For Mr. Smith, yes? For a minister, right? Finally, I believe that the words freedom and censorship should be reviewed and reviewed, because I believe they have been suspended. We are amazed when the ultra-right accuses us of imposing sectarian approaches, when they call for respect for the fundamental freedoms and rights of all Spaniards, but what do you have, that of a few who face the rest? Fundamental rights. Is it not a right of a minor, the rights of the child, the right to education or the right to equality that you question? In the face of their vetoes, we defend the right of the child above all else, to protect the child and to protect him or her completely from his or her fanatical integrity. For us, the right to comprehensive training, the right to think for itself, to develop a critical attitude, the right to be free to choose when they are adults and the right to know, ladies and gentlemen, to know and understand life and society as it is, not as you would like it to be, with diversity and also with sexual diversity. We defend the free development of personality as a guarantor of personal autonomy and the right to education, which contributes to the individual's having a real and personal freedom of choice in the face of the various challenges posed by life. Freedom makes it possible to discern, and the full development of the human personality is not complete unless it is closely linked to the development of a critical spirit on the part of the student, necessary for the correct and adequate development of article 27 of the Spanish Constitution. What training should our children share as members and fellow citizens of an increasingly diverse and complex society? The principles of equality, tolerance, training on social reality and diversity, gender identity, are issues that are absolutely internalized in our society. You have to have a dirty mind when you see indoctrination in emotional-sexual education. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. Casado publicly supported parental pine in Murcia, and I ask you: do you or do you not support it in Madrid? Do you support him in Andalusia? They have lost their educational horizon and their lack of credibility in education. They eliminated in Lomce the decision-making capacity of school councils and now, inconsistently, they defend the parental veto by covering up what they actually claim, which is conscientious objection, as they already did with Education for Citizenship. Censorship is neither good nor ever good, it has always brought retrograde movements and involution of thought, and so today there are laws and rules that protect, the fundamental constitutional right to education prevails, various international treaties ratified by Spain, the Convention on the Rights of the Child or the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the Memorandum of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, educational legislation, legislation on gender violence and specific legislation on LGBT, and now also Lomlou. The educational regulations prescribe that it is teachers, within the framework of the pedagogical autonomy of the educational institutions, who have the competence to design the complementary activities that they consider appropriate, and thus to comply with the requirements of the educational curricula. What we ask in this initiative is to respect the freedom of chair and the professionalism of teachers and managers in their daily work, because, since the ultra-right became visible on the Spanish political scene, they have not stopped using linked organizations to dynamite all that complementary activities, sex education and putting all possible obstacles to torpedoing equality plans, the LGTB protocols, etc. Education is the best way of social progress and, in the face of the controlling drift of the right of our country, it is of vital importance to show and strengthen the support and confidence in the professionalism of the teacher and in the educational inspection, to rely on our educational system and, above all, to ensure comprehensive training for all children. Ladies and gentlemen, the guarantee of these principles is essential, and that is why we ask you to support this initiative, not a single crack and not a step backwards in the face of an absolute barbarity that the ultra-right seeks to establish. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, I ask you to act as a responsible right, with a sense of state and break with the blackmail of VOX, which is winning you the game. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Martín Llaguno spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u97	Thank you, President. Your Honor, do not talk to me about selling in exchange for power when you have sold the language in the Celaá Law in exchange for budgets. Don't be ashamed! [[Applauds]] It's election Monday and immediately the Socialist Party and VOX pull out their favorite smoke curtain: the parental pin. It's been a while! And they now put on the agenda the question of whether it is a problem and an important debate if parents have the right to choose or if parents have the right to veto. I'll explain it to you again, gentlemen of the PSOE. Parents have the right to choose. Yes, gentlemen of the PSOE, we have the right to choose - although Celaá is annoyed - because the children are ours and not hers, and we have the right to choose the educational project we want for them. [[Applauds]] Because hearing them talk about educational freedom after having made the Celaá Law is a joke, an insult or an oxymoron. I don't know. Gentlemen of VOX, you are absolutely right: parents have the right to choose the education of our children; yes, sir, but there is an important issue too: children have the right to receive a plural education and in democratic values. So, do you have the right to veto? No, no, They have no right to veto. The key, therefore, is to combine these two issues: the right to choose with the right not to veto. It's compatible, it can be done and I've explained it to you a thousand times. In education there are two important issues. On the one hand, there's what and, on the other hand, there's how. What are the curricular contents, the educational project, that we fix through the educational regulations and that is where we have to establish a series of knowledge and values, of course, that have to be like respect, tolerance and democratic values. And another very important thing, socialists and nationalists, is respect for the truth, respect for the truth. What, gentlemen of VOX, curricular contents are not negotiable. You can't do the curriculum content on the letter and I'm going to explain why, because this would generate an incredible madness and inequality. Imagine the secessionists saying that their children do not want to study the Constitution or that the terraplanists say they do not want to give Naturals. This would be chaos. That is, no, no, what is not negotiable and in what are true knowledge related to democratic values, tolerance and respect for equality, all, including gender, yes, including gender. But besides what, there's how. How these contents are transmitted and the contents have to be transmitted ensuring the absence of manipulations and distortions. That's where parents have the right to choose, in the way. Parents have to have freedom... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u98	Excuse me a second, Mrs. Martin. I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u99	Parents must have the freedom to choose the educational model they want. Yes, sir, because there are parents who pay taxes and want to have an educational model of religious teaching. You can, of course, but the Administration has to supervise that this is the case and that it is done properly. The Administration must ensure that what is transmitted correctly by controlling how, with mechanisms of transparency, with mechanisms of evaluation and with mechanisms of accountability and not with a parental pin that will point to children in a context. I have been demanding for years that the educational project, which must be approved by the centre, must be known by the parents in advance and, if there is any irregularity in its execution, must intervene the Inspection and the High Inspection when necessary. Also, gentlemen of the PSOE, who are now very concerned about the subject of indoctrination, we need to know the project of the linguistic model of the centre, which has been hidden from me. They hid it from me and I had to go look for the language models of the centers because they don't give them to me. You can't ask for a few things, yes, and you can't ask for a few things. And in the case of bad practice, you have to veto all bad practice, all of it. We have indications and evidence that history in Catalonia is not transmitted with respect for the truth. Some books broadcast fake news. You have hidden a report from the High Inspectorate denying that there was indoctrination. It makes me laugh that you, lords of the PSOE, speak to me of critical thinking and freedom when you are accomplices of the most intolerant and sectarian nationalism, even with children, when you have been accomplices and have a written agreement with Bildu, when you have been allowing indoctrination in classrooms for years and looking elsewhere. We have amended the motion demanding that, in addition to sexual orientation, they undertake to reject any kind of indoctrination, such as that which has occurred in Catalonia with children, for example, of civilian guards or police officers...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u100	Mrs. Martin, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u101	... and not endanger coexistence for political and ideological reasons. Tell the Spaniards, tell me and tell Celaá too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martin. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, which will also determine its position at this time, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candaimil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u103	Thank you, Madam President. We are very concerned about the attempts of the ultra-right and the ultra-right to restrict the freedom of chair and thought to implement a conservative and centralist educational model. The BNG will always be fighting for freedom and against the imposition of single thought. And we are also concerned that the Socialist Group comes here once again with a non-legislative proposal to raise a debate - legitimate, of course - rather than acting from the government to really shield an educational system that meets the parameters of quality, freedom and critical thinking. Only four months ago, the Lomlou was passed in this Congress. There you missed a unique opportunity to definitively withdraw religion from the educational system and ensure secular, basic public education, to advance in a truly transformative education at the service of progress and social welfare. Of course, an education that promotes critical thinking is also an education anchored in the social reality of each nation and of each people; a system that guarantees the right to education in one's own language and allows access to recognition...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u104	Mr. Rego, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u105	Finished. ... of the cultural, historical and national reality itself, something that at least in the case of Galicia is not possible with the Government of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u107	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Since the descalation began we have seen how the word freedom has been circulating from mouth to mouth and from theme to theme as a flag more to shake every time we have discrepancies or every time one does not think like us. It has been used not to put on masks, to skip confinements, as an excuse to open business without taking into account the very high risks of contagion and now also as a motto in some electoral campaign. But it is especially curious that those who fill their mouths with the word freedom are those who question it precisely when it comes to considering boys and girls as subjects of law. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest contribution of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is its consideration as subjects of law and not as mere objects of protection. Consequently, States must ensure the implementation and provision of those rights; hence, we will support this proposal. Parental censorship, according to the main children's organizations, is a violation of the right of children to comprehensive education, as reflected in the Convention. They have the right not to inherit the prejudices of their parents, to be educated in freedom and that is guaranteed through public policies and public education. That is why we believe that this proposal which we are considering today is timely. For those who systematically censor bad news, ladies and gentlemen. From the moment our sons and daughters are born they become subjects of law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u108	Mrs. Sabanes, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, for the same parliamentary group and to defend the amendment, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u111	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on the education system to strike a complex balance between guaranteeing parents' right to choose their children's education and giving students a critical ability to analyse and see the world from their own perspective and not from the imposed point of view. When we talk about critical ability, we also talk about the ability to critically analyze the way your parents view the world. Critical ability is critical or not critical, but it cannot be critical at times or critical depends. If we educate children with critical abilities, they will also be critical of the ideas of their parents. It is because of this balance between guaranteeing the right of parents to choose the education of their children and looking for ways to give a critical capacity to the children so that the parental pin comes and the idea of the extreme right to end this vision, with this will of the educational system and with this requirement that we ask the educational system to educate the children with critical capacity. That's why we're against parental pin. We understand that parental pine is nothing but to hide from students a part of the world where they will have to live and with which they will have to live. The situation cannot be more serious. We want to condemn indoctrination, and parental pin is indoctrination, but we also want to condemn the use and abuse of the concept of indoctrination. I would like to take this moment to remind the nine professors of the El Palau de Sant Andreu de la Barca Institute who were accused of indoctrination. You will recall that some parties in this House protested against these teachers accusing them of indoctrination and that some of the teachers had to request a change of destiny because they could not practice their classes at that center. You will also remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the court closed the case against those nine teachers. What I want to tell you is to condemn indoctrination but not to see indoctrination where there is only freedom of chair. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to this initiative, because we find its content interesting, but also because it is important to defend the competence of the Autonomous Communities in educational matters. If you finally accept the compromise amendment that incorporates our text, we will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. That the groups that have supported the Celaá Act speak of freedom of education is a misconception. If something has that law it is lack of freedom, indoctrination and unique thought, quite the opposite of what they bring into this initiative. With this law there is no freedom of education in Spain, there is no freedom of choice, and this is not abstract. At the moment, in the Foral Community of Navarre, 2500 families, with names and surnames, 4,500 people, boys and girls, the government, chaired by the Socialist Party with the same partners that they have here, has decided that these schools are not entitled to the concert. That is to undermine their freedom of choice, that is to punish families, that is to punish people; people who are currently concerned, like everyone else, about health problems, lack of employment, if they lose their jobs. You've brought them one more problem, and you don't know what your children's school future is going to be. Do you know how serious that is? Do you know what that means for a family? Can you put them in their place? One of the most difficult decisions you make in this life is the education of your children, and you have decided, with vows, as if you could do so, that you have no right to choose the school. Have you thought those 2500 families are rich? Have you gone crazy? How can you tell these people to pay for their vices? That's 2,500 families. Are you really saying that anyone who wants to go to a determined school to pay for it, like before? What do you say 'it's that I studied in a paid school'? Is that what you want? You do not want to give the same opportunity to the children of a minister as to the children of anyone who is working or unemployed. Is that what you want? That there is no freedom of education? [[Applauds]] The children of ministers who choose school, because they have money, but those who are unemployed do not, let their children go wherever the government says. You're sectarians, and that's what you've done. [[Mrs Martínez Seijo makes gestures to the speaker]] No, he doesn't point me out that he doesn't. They're sectarians and that's what they're doing and they're making life more difficult for families with names and surnames. This is not an abstract thing, this is much more serious because they have put many things at risk for those families. You guys talk a lot, but in the end, what's clear is that you want schools that you can only pay for, and that's nonsense. But how! Can't children study in English, but do you send your children to London? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] In the end, that's what happens. [[Mrs. Martínez Seijo makes negative gestures]] You are sectarians because you can afford to take your children wherever you want, but many families can't because you're having a hard time. Many things can be discussed here, such as article 27, but article 27 is already in the Constitution. So it is in the Constitution that when the remedies of unconstitutionality are presented they will say that the Celaá Law is unconstitutional, because it is, and that is going to happen. [[Applauds]] Therefore, nothing should be said again about article 27, which is already in the Constitution. That's right, lucky they're going to have some that in a few days they're going to be able to choose, they are, between communism and freedom. They're gonna be lucky. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u114	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u115	Madam President. Get out of the way. In this non-legislative proposal that we are discussing, there is a great paradox. What is a paradox? By definition, it is a saying or fact that seems contrary to logic. I'm going to explain to you why we think there's a paradox going on. In its justification and request to take into account, it urges to ensure the fulfilment of articles 27.1 and 27.2 of the Spanish Constitution, in addition to relating it to the promotion of freedom of thought and development of the critical capacity of students. Article 27.1 states that we all have the right to education. To what education, ladies and gentlemen? To the education that is marked us from the centrality of the state institutions with a law, like the next Lomloe, in which it has been very interested to make clear that 50% of the curriculum is imposed on the autonomous communities that have exclusive competences in education, as is the case with the Foral Community of Navarre or the Basque Autonomous Community? It is paradoxical to talk about freedom of thought within a prison; yes, a prison, because that is what it means for the nations living together in the Spanish State the Spanish Constitution itself. In the debate and processing of the new Education Act, the Lomlou, our training was clearly against it because of the competitive invasion. Let us remember that in this society of the 21st century and, moreover, living the exceptionality of the health and structural crisis, today more than ever it is necessary for the educational communities of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community to have the capacity to decide for educational systems that really meet the needs of their people, of their citizenship. There is talk of promoting the exercise of autonomy of the autonomous communities and educational institutions in order to enrich the curriculum, but it is urged to promote a common competence profile for students, whether from Ceuta, León, A Coruña, Durango, Iruñea or Vic. We share that the education system is a key tool for the development of a society. We also share that knowledge is based on skills that enable people and communities to meet their reality and needs, and all this from the cultivation of the transformative and critical spirit. Nelson Mandela stated: Education is the most powerful tool for social transformation, and we think so. They speak of freedom of education and the full development of the human personality while respecting democratic principles of coexistence and fundamental rights and freedoms. But from what parameters? Do you think it responds to the parameters of the communities and to the reality that demand? Clearly not, neither in what he teaches nor in what he evaluates. In Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community we are faced with the impossibility of universal knowledge of Basque or the transmission of our culture. We find a law on education that does not respect secularism as an essential component of a system that aims to form citizens in a culture of peace and coexistence; a law that wants to tell the history of Spanish democracy and historical memory from Madrid. This is not freedom in teaching. [[The Lord]] Finally, we want to show our position in favour of making it possible and recognizing the involvement and professionalism of teachers in all educational cycles; it is also true that improving their employment situation will undoubtedly be beneficial. We see it imperative that co-education and sex education be present in education systems, which are equally educated from diversity. In short, to be educated from freedom and critical capacity and always respecting our capacity for decision-making and self-government. In view of all this, we shall abstain. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u116	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u117	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs. Pozueta, there's been a collision of positions. Just the last ones that have intervened have been you and Mr García Adanero. You have used, Mrs Pozueta, the expression: we are radically against the Lomlou. Man, I think we need to do a honesty exercise. Radically against the Lomlou was, and is, as has been shown, Mr García Adanero. The attitude you had in the debate was not at all a radically opposed attitude, but it is also true that you were radically opposed to the budgets and voted for them. A abstention from the Lomlou, a yes to the State Budgets, and then make a speech that they have not supported anything. I believe that coherence and honesty are very important in politics and take the political positions that are being adopted in each of the debates. In relation to today's debate, I believe that if someone asked our parliamentary group what is one of the great values of a society, what is one of the great riches of a society, from the Vasco Nationalist Party, from the Basque Group, we will answer that social cohesion. From our point of view, an uncoherent society is a failure of society. And if we were also asked what are the decisive elements for achieving a cohesive society, we would undoubtedly say a health system, a good health system, and of course a good education system. We understand that it is the way, it is the instrument, to give opportunities to the whole of society and to achieve a tolerant society, a society that assumes and incorporates diversity, plurality and acts with an approach of respect for freedoms, fundamental rights and human rights. That's what we're discussing today. In fact, in our electoral programme, in line with this approach, we incorporate two proposals. I think it is very important for the parliamentary groups to remember from time to time what our road map is on each of the sectoral issues we are discussing. As a first commitment, we plan to place coexistence as a backbone of educational policies and programmes that promote inclusion and equity and, second, to define a framework for coexistence and equity that reinforces the value of diversity and ensures non-discriminatory schooling. It seems absolutely decisive to us. That is why different LGTB protocols and equality plans are being put in place. I would like to conclude my speech on behalf of the Basque Group by recalling the name of one of the programmes that has been launched in Euskadi, the name is Bizikasi, to learn to live, to learn to live together. In this programme, which is a very interesting programme to ensure that schools are spaces of zero tolerance against school harassment of all kinds and to ensure that they have a positive environment, socio-emotional competences are worked out. And what is done in the socio-emotional competences and in this programme is to promote dialogue. Does it not seem to you that we too should work a little to promote and advance dialogue? Active listening is promoted, listening to what others say. Assertivity is promoted. Sergi Miquel said that if we are educating critical thinking, we have to assume that others think differently and that they can fight back. We need to promote assertiveness, resilience, empathy for others, good treatment. What do you think? Are we targeting Bizikasi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u118	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u119	Thank you, President. Evidently, Squerra Republicana de Catalunya defends the right to freedom of education and plurality of thought and believes in equality plans and LGTBI protocols for the prevention of macho and heteropatriarchal violence. In Catalonia we have been working in this direction for years because we have competences. It is the competence of the Generalitat to decide policies and protocols to guarantee the freedom, diversity and critical thinking of students and educators. We are aware that the social and political context requires a citizenry capable of reasoning, mistrusting and transforming; classrooms where we educate ourselves in challenging dogmas and in the need to transform reality. Current topics such as the reception of refugees, the right to self-determination of individuals and peoples, the pursuit of freedom of expression, the invisibility of women or the heteropatriarchal vision of the world must be treated and discussed in the classrooms on a daily basis through the interdisciplinary treatment of the multiple contents. However, do you remember the remark and persecution that Catalan teachers have suffered from talking about topical issues in class? Curiously, all those persecuted were inclined in favour of the right to decide or the independence of Catalonia, not those who defended the unity of Spain. Complaints such as that of the teachers of Sant Andreu della Barca or of the teachers of the Seu d'Urgell, the form of Catalan Civil Society, the requirements of the Ministry of Education, etc., cause some teachers to decide not to discuss with their students; another consequence of the repression. Today we are told about guaranteeing the professionalism, independence and freedom of professorship, but yesterday they kept quiet while chasing our teachership. To allow this competitive invasion today is to consent to the instrument with which PP and VOX can pursue our teachers again in the future, so we will vote against it. Moreover, not only do the right-wings prevent the construction of a critical spirit by Spanishizing Catalan children; you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, have repeatedly shown us that good words and intentions are not accompanied by courageous statements and actions, with more than three thousand reprisals, with the Government in prison and exile, with the President of the Parliament in prison for allowing a debate and Cuixart and Sánchez for organizing demonstrations, with the suppression of the third degree recently, with the pressure to lift the immunity of President Carles Puigdemont in exile, in short, with the repression at full performance, how to promote critical thinking without fear of new reprisals? The Office of the Prosecutor continues to mark the path of a State where democracy is increasingly irreparable. We want professionals to educate critically, yes; we want to rethink teacher training because critical teaching is not taught, learned, but we do not live in an environment that helps to grow freely by analyzing reality with all its complexity. If they are going to pursue the faculty for debate and this implies questioning the monarchy, the police violence or the unity of Spain, what freedom do they have? Repression does not allow freedom of thought. Without freedom of thought and expression there will be no critical teachers, and without critical teachers there will be no critical education. It is the degree of democracy of a society and not the controlling control of the classrooms to guarantee freedom of thought and plurality and the basis of an education and a free and critical society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u120	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Sánchez Serna has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u121	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group brings us a GNP for the promotion of freedom of thought and the critical capacity of students, something that may sound abstract, but which makes sense in the face of the extreme right-wing offensive to implement the so-called parental veto and boycott, through this means, educational policies in favour of equality between men and women, policies that educate human rights and also policies that defend the rights of LGBT people. The parental veto is indeed a direct attack on many groups, but it is also an attack on the ultimate meaning of education. Can anyone imagine that a father and mother on Earth could get their children out of school so they wouldn't be explained something as basic as the earth being spherical? Or that parents who did not believe, for example, in the theory of evolution could veto biology classes by considering them ideological? For that is precisely what VOX intends to do with all the educational content that has to do with equality, diversity and social progress. The reactionaries of VOX play to confuse something fundamental, and it is that the right to education is the right of every child, but not a sort of absolute prerogative on the part of the parents. The 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Spain, is very clear in this regard and recognizes the best interests of the child, his or her right to education and the obligation of the State to ensure the effective realization of his or her rights. In this sense, there is no such thing as conscientious objection to education. An abusive parent, for example, has no right to remove his or her child from class on the day the laws protecting women against male-based violence are explained, or a racist mother cannot ask her to school for all and all to educate her children in their racial prejudices. Therefore, neither the theory of evolution nor human rights are optional content, however much Mr Espinosa De los Monteros would be, because if there exists the parent pin proposed by VOX, it will be dismantled one of the basic pillars of education, namely: the transmission of values that a democratic society considers positive and that we are cohesive as a political community. But if we are debating this nonsense it is not just VOX's fault, it is also the fault of a People's Party that is buying these reactionary policies in the Region of Murcia, in Andalusia or in the Community of Madrid; a People's Party that seems to have gone out with the checkbook to buy everything, because you buy the parental pin from VOX and you buy from citizens' fugitive deputies to avoid censorship motions against their corruption. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Often, reactionaries who defend parental pine invoke the need to end alleged indoctrination in classrooms. They are the same, by the way, that then put the boys and girls to make orange ties against the Celaá Law or that multiply the subsidies to the schools of Opus Dei, where, of course, they do not indoctrinate. But, look, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, beyond this nonsense there is only one effective antidote against indoctrination: public school and secular school, because only public school is a guarantee of diversity and can therefore ensure that freedom of thought and that capacity for criticism. Only in a public school can students have right-wing teachers, left-wing teachers, believers, atheists, agnostics; it is thanks to this diversity that students can know different visions, confront them and form a vision of the world, their own, but also knowing that of others. This is because the teachers of a public school are elected by independent courts by virtue of their pedagogical competence and not by any kind of religious or ideological affinity with the centre's idea. [[Laughter]] Mr. Iván Espinosa de los Monteros is passing it on to him in this GNP. Ladies and gentlemen, the danger of indoctrination always exists, but it comes from the extreme right, because those who want to indoctrinate are the ones who point out to teachers for doing their job, those who criminalize the workshops of affective-sexual education and those who only want an a la carte education that is a mirror of their own prejudices. And, of course - and I am finishing - these attacks on education have consequences. On November 8, an 11-year-old boy was brutally assaulted at the door of his school in Cartagena. Diego was broken in the nasal septum of a punch and had to be hospitalized. They go from other classes to call him a faggot, he denounces his mother. They are minors who reproduce homophobia, which in some cases they see in their homes. This is the real problem, and VOX's speeches are accomplices, because VOX arms his arm with his hate speeches, but also intends to disarm with his censorship any defense against the culture of homophobia and aggression.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u122	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u123	I'm on my way. We can't keep failing girls and boys like Diego. We can stop these punches and we must do so with an education for equality. [[rumors]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u124	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. We have come to establish a negative position, of course, on a GNP presented by the Socialist Group, whose starting point is a feat of selective memory, because they are perfectly able to recall Article 27(1) and (2) of the Constitution and completely forget paragraph 3, which turns out to be, oh, surprise!, which enshrines the right of parents to educate their children in accordance with their own values. [[Applauds]] And it's just that the left has never trusted parents as educators. His philosophical inspiration would seem to be the Republic of Plato, where the family did not exist and the children were educated by the State; it was not in vain that Vice President Calvo told us a year ago that the children did not belong to their parents. By the way, the obsession with the state indoctrination of youth has been a historical constant in totalitarianisms, from Hitler's youths to Komsomol; I recommend to his lordships of Podemos to look at Wikipedia as this was Komsomol. [[Applauds]] La Lomlou, recently approved, persists in the harassment of the concerted school; however, concerted education is the model that in Spain allows families with fewer resources to access education not fully controlled by the State, so it seems that the ideal of the left in education is that of everything within the State, nothing outside the State, nothing against the State. [[Applauds]] The phrase is by Benito Mussolini. Here we are called a psychedelic PNL that tries to protect students from right-wing and centralist indoctrination in schools. I call it psychedelic because, obviously, what has happened in the last forty years has been a systematic indoctrination of several generations of Spanish young people by the left and nationalisms. Spain is the only country in the world in which a child cannot be educated in the official language of the State in much of the national territory. In Catalonia, children are spied on in the playground so that they don't speak Spanish, in the Basque Country the Olentzero gnaws at children if they don't write in vascuence and in the Galician of Mr. Feijóo, mathematics is the only truncated matter taught in Spanish in primary school. [[Applauds]] The teaching of history is another of the left's favourite grounds for educational manipulation, and I am not referring only to the imposition of a Manichean version of our Civil War and our Second Republic in the spirit of its historical memory laws, I am referring to what the AMES teacher union has recently indicated about how history is taught in Catalonia, where it always presents Spain as a foreign country and oppressive country and Catalonia as a prosperous and independent country. However, the left also uses education to indoctrinate in sexual matters. Children are being sexualized prematurely, filling their heads with improper concerns of their age, they are being told things like they could be kids trapped in girls' bodies, that all men are potential abusers, that romantic love is a covert form of machismo - it's the Calvo doctrine on the issue - and that abortion is not the destruction of a human being, but a woman's right. [[Applauds]] All this is capable of preventing bullying and promoting tolerance, as we have seen in previous interventions. The left always demands maximum tolerance for all but for the parents we do not think like the left in these matters, for example, the parents we think that love between man and woman is the basis of the conservation of society and therefore we reject the war of sex. You, progressive gentlemen, despise us so much that you want to steal our children's souls, but we will not allow it and for that you have proposed VOX the parental pin. In Institutes ofMóstoles, Arcópoli activists give workshops on how to be gay or lesbian. The School Sex Education Program, which is taught in Navarre, contains fact sheets on how to masturbate and proposes erotic games in preschool. At El Pinillo school, a drag queen explained sexual diversity to primary school children and at an institute in Orcal-Overa, a monitor forced a boy and a girl to simulate a sexual act before their peers. If you want more examples, you can find them in Alicia Rubio's books, VOX's MP at the Madrid Assembly and the great Spanish refutor of gender ideology. [[Applauds]] Progressive gentlemen, leave our children alone and remember that it is better to throw yourself into the sea with a mill wheel tied to your neck than to scandalize those little ones. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u126	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Moneo Diez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, what do you want me to tell you? I do not come out of my astonishment, the truth, first of all by subjecting this initiative to debate, something that comes from you can only be the cause of that constant bipolarity in which you have turned your political action. Secondly, because they continue to treat education as that embarrassing terrain where they can be thrown out in the absence of an ambitious, modernizing, transformative educational project, the educational project that ultimately needs Spain. But of course, for a long time you have lost the train of progress, you have preferred to settle in the pre-constitutional discourse in which a sector of the left sought its raison d'être in the absence of freedoms. But I ask you to wake up, ladies and gentlemen. For more than forty years, in Spain, there has been a constitutional regime that has given our country one of the most important stages of progress in our history, even if it is curiously you, who claim to be heirs to those who defended freedoms, who are now working tirelessly to take away ours. That is why they are not credible, ladies and gentlemen, that is why this initiative is sealed by deep hypocrisy. Today they dare to talk to us about freedom, real and personal freedom, as their text says. From the freedom they have run over with the passing of their educational law, a law that distills sectarianism from the first to the last line? From the freedom of families, to whom you intend to steal the right to choose the educational centre, the educational model according to your own convictions, as laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union? What freedom are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen? From the freedom of parents who want their children to study in Spanish, who, thanks to you and your political trilerism, have lost their status as a vehicle language in the educational system? What freedom? Freedom on the basis of one thought? The one that expels the humanities from the formation of the students, by the way, with the applause and complicity of their partners in Podemos, who have sold the subject of Ethics for thirty coins of silver? [[Applauds]] That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. What freedom? The one that stifles the concerted school to impose a unique, public and secular model, the dream of the good socialcommunist? What freedom are we talking about? Is it the case that parents of students with disabilities are subject to the assignment of a centre because they are not allowed to express the opposite view of what the Government is saying? Is that your freedom?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Applauds]] But if you do not believe in freedom, neither in freedom of choice nor in freedom of thought. In fact, they are so annoyed by the freedom of thought that they have intended to gag Spanish society and their right to come here to the Congress of Deputies, because they do not admit that no one can contradict their ideas or their laws. How do you think we're going to support this initiative? Don't even amend it. Look for his cut somewhere else. We would have to do a collective amnesia exercise to try to get something decent out of this text. No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support them, we are going to go to the Constitutional Court to defend our rights and our freedoms, the right of pupils to be educated in a system of the highest quality, away from ideologies and indoctrination; the right of families to choose the education of their children is in a public centre, in a concerted centre, in an ordinary centre, in a special education centre, in a differentiated educational centre or not, because they all belong to the Constitution. [[applause]] We are going to defend the freedom of tenure set out in article 20 of the Constitution, so that teachers can exercise their profession with a genuine professional career and within a framework of full guarantees that can respond to a plural offer. You tell us about indoctrination; you have never wanted to strengthen the powers of the High Inspectorate of Education and now want to control the body of inspectors by replacing an objective selection system with a subjective assessment. For what? To open the door to arbitrariness and plugging? Because that was said by the inspectors themselves. Look, we are going to go to the Constitutional Court to ensure that the official language of the State is fully guaranteed to occupy its status as a vehicle language in the educational system. [[Applauds]] No, ladies and gentlemen, your initiative does not deserve the slightest consideration, because behind it lies a great lie. I do not know other groups, but we will not be fooled, because the true face of your educational model and your way of doing politics we have seen in the processing of the Lomlou, because, as Mr García Adanero has said very well, between communism and freedom, we choose freedom. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Martínez Seijo, do you accept any amendments to those tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u129	Yeah. We have tabled a compromise amendment agreed with Citizens and with P CAT.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u130	All right.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u131	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on the Government's policy of bringing prisoners closer to prisons near the Basque Country, as well as the transfer of powers in prison matters to that autonomous community. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u132	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A preliminary question. I have heard it before and I cannot do anything but answer: Señorías de Esquerra, the Catalan children are not Spanish, they are born Spanish and they are going to remain Spanish. [[Applauds]] Today we are debating a motion following urgent questioning of Minister Marlaska, the Minister of the Interior, on the Government's policy of bringing older prisoners closer to or close to prisons in the Basque Country. Last week I asked many questions to the minister - the truth, in twelve minutes he gave me time to ask many - and, frankly, beyond seeing Marlaska lose the nerves, who lost them, and even trying to offend me personal disqualifications, he answered absolutely nothing, and that the questions were not for me to answer directly to myself or to my Parliamentary Group, they were for the victims of terrorism; for them it was for whom we were asking and for which we presented this inquiry. Recently, in the Basque Parliament's rostrum, the Basque Nationalist Party hinted at the existence of a pact between Bildu and the Government to approve a rapprochement of five prisoners per week of the terrorist band ETA to the vicinity of the Basque Country or the Basque Country. I open tables, ladies and gentlemen, five a week. Ladies and gentlemen, since last week, when I called on the most altered minister, the government has decided to approach the age that killed the chief prosecutor of Andalusia, Luis Portero, and again with the manifest opposition of the prison treatment board. Gentlemen of PSOE and Podemos, have you spoken to your family? If any of you raise your head. I say this because they say that they have received absolutely nothing from the Government. Their contempt for the victims is terrible. The pardoned murderer, in addition, in his resume has two more murders: that of the Malagasy José Martín Carpena and that of the military doctor Antonio Muñoz Cariñanos. The second of Marlaska's graces this week is Luis Conde's killer, my colleague Eduardo Puelles and the attack on the Burgos House. Do you know what your sentence was, ladies and gentlemen? 3860 years of imprisonment; 3860 years of imprisonment; and for house. It's unworthy. The third of the week is Jurdan Martitegui, who, curiously, is going to Martutene, which is going to be the prison where, it seems, the military commanders of ETA will be reunited. This criminal has a conviction of only 146 years in prison. The fourth of the week is Beatriz Echevarria, also condemned for the attack on the Burgos barracks and other crimes to 3860 years in prison. And the fifth week is Asier Badiola Lasarte, sentenced for attempted murder and other crimes to 50 years in prison. Five, ladies and gentlemen, this week. And next week, five more, right? So until there's no one left to approach. The truth is that we - myself personally - will not be forgotten. That's called treason. [[Applauds]] The rapprochement of etarra prisoners is an apisonadora, so much so that you like the apisonadoras, but it is an apisonadora of the rights of the victims that has accelerated with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez to the Government in July 2018, and that has multiplied exponentially, oh, divine chance!, since last summer, curiously coinciding with the processing of the general budgets of the State for this year and the need of this terrifying Government to have the parliamentary support to carry out many, not to say all, its policies, nefarious in many cases. For example, on the same day in October when the Government submitted its draft budgets for 2021, it approved the transfer to prisons in the Basque Country or close to eight prisoners of the terrorist gang ETA convicted of the death of civilian guards, national police, members of the army or politicians. It's a shame! This massive rapprochement of senior prisoners, almost 160 with Pedro Sánchez in the government, including some of the band's bloodiest terrorists, also coincides with the foreseeable transfer of prison powers to the Basque Country and the mega reform of the Martutene prison, which is presumably going to happen very soon. Well, we do not know the reality of this transfer of competences. It is a new reflection of the total and absolute lack of transparency of this Government and especially in the less transparent ministry of all, in the interior. The Government should give a concrete response and detailed information on whether there is this pact of infamy, this pact of shame, the pact with Bildu and also say whether this pact consists of bringing five prisoners closer to the week, which is what we are seeing with the facts, as well as whether there is a correlation between the approximation of some of these terrorist prisoners and the search for parliamentary support to the Government for the approval of the general budgets of the State and also the decree on the management of European funds. I make a point on this point to tell Mr Santiago, that I think he is not here and that the other day he told me that I was very pleased to meet myself - it is true, I am, although he, as the president of the Communist Party of Spain, is not so much - that every time I go up to this rostrum I will say that I am a national police officer, because I am proud. [[applause]] It bothers him, but I am proud of my profession; it turns out that's it. Yes, he's very upset that every time I have a microphone, he says I'm a national police officer and makes faces; in fact, the other day he complained openly. I'll tell him that, since it's a feeling he's never going to experience, it's very rewarding for me, so after the tip. [[Applauds]] I'm going to end up, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, I'm going to end up with a very simple question if anyone of you listens to me. Do you have anything to hide? If not, I trust the vote in favour of the whole House, including you; well, not at all, not at all, because there are five Members up there - who, in my opinion, should not be here - who are very clear on their side. Well, it's up to the rest of us to decide where they are, whether on the side of justice or infamy. Memory and dignity: always with the victims! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u133	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Iñarritu García is speaking by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u134	Sweep on, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Citizens' gentlemen, that's a bit of a mess, isn't it? Mr. Cambronero, what chaos! Moreover, I would say that the chaos they are experiencing internally has wanted to move him to this motion. [[A Member of Parliament: Come on!]] It's a motion full of falsehoods and inconsistencies. And the most curious thing is that he invites the government to commit an illegal offence, to commit a crime of prevarication. And that is curious when it comes to a formation that always defends legality so much, theoretically. We'll see how we can't. Incoherences. They propose to reprimand the Government for bringing prisoners closer to their place of residence, i.e., to be reprimanded for complying with the law. Of course, to you this from the General Organic Prison Law and article 12, the Mandela rules taken as international reference and standard by the United Nations and the various convictions of the Court of Strasbourg to several States for having prisoners removed from their place of origin seem to you something from another State or another tale. Moreover, it is curious that you, who speak so much about Mr Macron and his policies, do not take into account that it was precisely France and his Government that brought the largest number of Basque prisoners closer to prisons in the Northern Basque Country, Iparralde, and more quickly did so. Don't they reprimand Mr. Macron? They said last week that this government is the one that has approached the most Basque prisoners. For doing a hemerotheque job, I read statements by Mrs Ordóñez, president of Covite, saying no, that the People's Party had approached 466 Basque prisoners. Don't the governments of the People's Party reprobate? Sounds incoherent, I mean. Moreover, they also - he mentioned in passing - attack the Government, which, by the end, forty-two years later, will transfer the management of prisons to the Basque Autonomous Community; a pending competition, part of the block of constitutionality. So much so that they say they are constitutionalists, and they find it wrong to comply with the block of constitutionality. Like I said, incoherent. Let's go to falsehoods. Secondly, they say that we have an agreement with the Socialist Party. The second part is full of slanders, and that no longer goes with you. I guess they've done it by protagonism, by looking for points in some of the parties on the right or the far right, to see if they're making a hole. I think it is the Bureau that should have removed that mention, as it did on December 11, 2018 in the Senate. But let's see, they say there's a deal. Why haven't they done a hemerotheque job? Why haven't you gone to the statements? I see here the lehendakari Lopez. Why don't they do a hemerotheque job, to see what Mr López was saying in 2017 and 2018, who claimed that we had to end that prison policy, which no longer made sense, or the statements of President Sánchez in June 2018 from this very atril, saying that we had to change that prison policy? I think they're doing part of what they said. It is true that they do so slowly, very slowly, I do not know why, because it has been three years since they ruled and today the autonomous community with the most Basque prisoners is still Andalusia; a collective that, ten years after the end of this violence fortunately, continues in the first degree. I think it is time to put an end to this policy of revenge and exception and apply normal legality to that group. With regard to points 3 and 4, they propose to the Government to take a discretionary and arbitrary measure, in particular with a group of prisoners in order to violate the law. They're asking the government to prevail, something that's curious. I have seen proposals of all kinds in this House over the years, but yours is one of the most daring ones I have seen, when you don't freak out. Finally, I conclude by addressing the Socialist Party and also the United Nations Party We can. I think it is time to put an end to that policy of the past, which, under the name of dispersion policy, applied a policy of remoteness. I said again today that the largest number of prisoners are still in Andalusia. I think it's a nonsense and Basque society has asked them to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u135	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u136	I end, Mr President, by asking them for courage and, beyond the reproaches of ultra-reactionary sectors, to listen to Basque society, to legality and to common sense. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u137	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u138	With venial, Mr. President. Mr Iñarritu, I would have imagined before you praying in a lupanar speaking of dignity and legality in this House. What a shame! [[Applauds]] This Government welcomes ETA and will - I have no doubt - be the culmination of the pacts and talks initiated between PSOE and ETA more than twenty years ago, which can only end in whitewashing, impunity and referendum. 'Mr. Sánchez, you've been very safe here today and I understand, you're very secure. ... What many Spaniards did not know is that the insurance company of the investiture, that is, of the institutional coup that you are giving, is called ETA'. 7 January 2020, words of VOX president, Santiago Abascal, during Pedro Sánchez's investiture session. [[Applauds]] Just a few days before, on December 17, an unscrupulous spokesman, Mrs. Lastra, and her armed arm, Mr.Simancas, formalized the connection with an unpublished public photo. [[Show a picture]] Here they are, although at that time they still kept their faces together. Later, however, as early as February 2020, when budgetary negotiations began, Mrs Lastra left the last complex and - now, we see her posing with ETA with a broad smile. [[Show another photograph]] With ETA. What claims did you put on the EH Bildu table...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u139	Your Honor, one second, please. I would ask you to do so with due respect when referring to parliamentary groups. [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u140	With ETA, ladies and gentlemen. [[Show another photograph.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u141	Mrs Olona, I ask you, please, to respond to what I ask of you and we do not have to repeat the question. Continue, respecting - I insist - the rest of the parliamentary groups. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u142	What demands did EH Bildu put on the table to support the Socialist Party? The usual ones, which he maintains today, which President Santiago Abascal clearly said: whitewashing, impunity and referendum. The whitening of the blood staining EH Bildu's hands was not a simple task. It demanded the disappearance of nearly a thousand victims of the terrorist gang ETA and the oblivion of the nearly four hundred crimes that to date remain unsolved, including that of the family of our deputy Toni Salvá. [[Applauds]] How do you get it? Where do they hide a thousand dead? What closet do they fit in? How to look at Mrs. Mertxe Aizpurua's face and not see in her the face of death? It is very simple, winning the battle of the story, talking about Basque political prisoners, Basque political conflict, the torturer state and oppressive police forces, getting through the education our children, then young, when they hear about Miguel Ángel Blanco know who they are referring to. Second goal, impunity. ETA does not seek the rapprochement of the prisoners of age to the Basque Country. ETA seeks impunity through amnesty. But a law prevents it, and it's not necessary today either. How is this goal achieved, because it is going to be this social communist government that opens Spanish prisons to free the prisoners of age with total impunity? On the one hand, dynamite prison policy, something which they deny but which is evident with the figures in hand. Mr. Patxi López, you listen to me carefully, don't you? In 2018, the total prison population was 236 prisoners. At present 49 are no longer in prison and 154 have been brought to the Basque Country. 70% of the elderly prisoners have been brought to the Basque Country. With Sánchez 70 stories of blood crimes, which have accumulated 167 murders in 127 attacks, they have been privileged, because they have not repented, because they have not cooperated with justice. And secondly, once we have the old prisoners in the Basque Country, how do we get amnesty? Very simple, transferring jurisdiction over prisons, a historic claim by ETA and the Basque extortionist party that will take effect in April, as announced by the Government. [[Show a picture]] Third objective, the referendum. With the independence of that dream that some call Euskal Herria, ETA will have achieved its main goal, today through its institutional arm. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the road map that is in progress. Sound, ladies and gentlemen? Are they, with almost a thousand dead on the table, eleven of them from their party? Do you dare smile? These are the figures of his betrayal. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the fire in which I have forged myself is the north, because there I have fought, because there I have given the battle of the tale, with more than 1500 resources. I could list the best who have taught me, who guided my legal sword; from here I simply mention John, representing all of them. ETA is not turned away, ETA is stared at face to face. [[Show another photograph]] And I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that's what VOX promises. Therefore, when Iñarritu, Aizpurua and the rest of EH Bildu's representatives asked with a composite voice what ETA is, it will be VOX who looks at them from the front to tell them: ETA is you. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group on the stand.-Protests by Mr Sánchez del Real pointing out other seats in the House]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u143	Mr. Sánchez del Real, please hold back. [[Mr. Sánchez del Real speaks words that are not perceived.-Protests]] I ask you to hold back and sit down so that we can continue with the debate, please. [[Mr Sánchez del Real, pointing out other seats in the Chamber: Tell them]] Mr. Sánchez del Real, you called the order for the first time. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors.-Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Adanero will take the floor. [[Rumors]] Please be quiet and calm, please. [[Rumors]] I ask everyone to calm down. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that it is unfortunate, but we have come here because one day it was decided to pass the red lines; that is so. There was a time when a president of the Government of Spain, which there was never, decided that the red line could be crossed by having power. And we denounced it, as was said, on January 7, and we said what was going to happen. We said that the Government of Spain was going to be kneeling before the terrorist band ETA. And it is said that ETA does not exist! Man, please, we all know what we're talking about! That's what happened, that president of the government knelt down. But not only that, it's the only pact he's keeping. If you analyze all the agreements of the parties with which you have entered into, from Podemos, with which you share Government, to Esquerra, the PNV or any of those who helped you get the investiture, the only agreement that you expressly comply with always, without moving not a minute or any person or anything, is the one you entered into with Bildu, the one of the five prisoners a week. [[Applauds]] That's the only one who's doing it. Everyone else is taking a long time. And besides that deal, there was another second, which is that of famous bleaching. That's right, he's whitening, and he's whitening his language. But we cannot talk about Basque prisoners; we must talk about terrorists, not Basque prisoners. Basque prisoners there are many, of many kinds. No, you have to say age-old terrorists, because they are convicted of being terrorists and belonging to the terrorist band ETA, not a gang of a gang of friends. No, terrorist band ETA. [[Applauds]] They seem to be forgetting all the murders that have taken place in Spain, and they cannot be forgotten. Of course you can't forget! How can we forget them if we are to continue in democracy? How are we going to forget all those people who stayed on the road to defend us as a whole, to defend freedom, to defend their principles? How are we gonna forget them? We must never forget them! And you, members of the Socialist Party, should not forget them either, because you also died for your country and for the freedom of your country and your land. And here it's not a question of getting medals. I said it once, although I'm not going to speak on behalf of all the victims, because it doesn't belong to me, but obviously, when you've been killed, you have every right in the world to talk here whenever it takes. All that was left was that they prevented us from recognizing and honoring those who died, our companions, and many others who over the months have given me permission to speak on their behalf, for defending freedoms! And as for it being on behalf of that Euskal Herria, about what the PNV spokesman did the other day laughing at me saying that I had no idea what Euskal Herria is... No, I'm sorry. ETA murdered on behalf of Euskal Herria. Article 1 of the Statute of the Basque Country speaks of the Basque people or Euskal Herria, so that they do not come to me with tales. When speaking of the Basque people in Articles 1 and 2 of the Basque Statute, the Foral Community of Navarre is included. Therefore, I will come out here every time I want to say that Euskal Herria is an entelequia, a chimera, that ETA murdered in the name of Euskal Herria and that I will not be silenced by anyone. [[applause]] All I needed was for him to shut me up, insulting me later, a PNV person on behalf of what, not even having representation for the Navarra Foral Community! That's where we could get to! This is ignominy. Obviously, what is being done with the terrorist gang ETA and the prisoners is the logical payment by the power of Pedro Sánchez. No, don't make me like that, the gesture that I'm crazy. [[Rumors]] Do you know what it's like to look under a car every day of the year? Do you know what that is? Do you know what it's like to defend your political ideals, to be threatened and to have to go down the escorted street? Do you know what that is? Do you think I liked losing my youth because someone wanted to shoot me? What do you think this is? Hey, he's lived like this! But where have you lived? You haven't lived in Spain, have you? [[Applauds]] For defending the ideas, for defending an outside and Spanish Navarra, with its own identity, within the unity of Spain, they wanted to kill me and two of mine killed them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX, Citizens and People's Parliamentary Groups in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u145	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u146	Thank you very much, President. The consequences of the unjustified violence of ETA for more than five decades, now completed since the truce of January 2011 and the renunciation of the use of violence in October of the same year, make us need a memory that carries a shared pedagogy of coexistence and a critical reflection against all forms of terrorism and violation of fundamental rights, which welcomes the pluralism of society and ethical and democratic values in order to reject any form of legitimization of violence, not to accept the minimization of human rights violations of other signs, to rule out any compensatory justification between violences, to also avoid discrimination between victims and to place first and foremost the commitment to victims, memory, truth, justice and reparation for the unjust damage caused by ETA. But while we do all this, we must be able to continue to move towards the definitive closure of the past, and for this it is also necessary to articulate a new prison policy, in accordance with the circumstances and the constitutional purpose of the sentences, which is mainly the resocialization and social reintegration of the prisoners. So, disappeared ETA ten years ago, we have to ask ourselves what the purpose of the dispersion is. It has been said in last week's interrogations that without collaboration with the authorities, without expressing reproach or abandonment, without regret, without express request for forgiveness to the victims, without participation of the victims, the approach of ETA prisoners to prisons in the Basque Country or nearby are illegal, are a prison benefit granted arbitrarily, but this, ladies and gentlemen, is a falsehood, said knowingly by the person who says it. All of you know that the principle which must inspire the execution phase of the sentences is the reintegration, and, in order for it to materialise, the maintenance of the family and social ties of the prisoners must be taken into account when assigning them to the enforcement centre closest to their home in order to avoid the uprooting of the prisoners and to allow their resocialization, this being derived from the same Constitution, the General Organic Prison Law, the European Convention on Human Rights, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Prison Rules and the recommendations to Spain of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture, without, logically, prejudice that this right to family and social life may have legitimate interference on the part of the prison administration, provided that they are proportionate and based on insurmountable organisational reasons - Article 79 of the General Organic Prison Law - or reasons for national or state security to prevent the commission of crimes. But, ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you a few moments ago, missing ETA ten years ago, what reason can exist, based on security reasons, for maintaining a policy of dispersion, when, in addition, the approach to preventing the rootlessness that facilitates reintegration has nothing to do with the prison benefits that are institutions that allow either the shortening of the sentence or the shortening of the actual time of detention and that are conditioned on terrorist offences, inter alia, under article 72(6) of the General Prison Organic Law, amended for this purpose in 2003, the collaboration, the repentance and the express request for forgiveness of the sentence for obtaining the third degree that allows the advance of parole? In short, ladies and gentlemen, the shortening of the sentence or the effective time of detention, which is the goal of prison benefits and which in terrorist offences are conditioned on the fulfilment by the sentence of a number of requirements, has nothing to do with which centre the prisoner is serving his sentence, which must be governed by the geographical principle, except for insurmountable organizational reasons...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u147	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u148	... or state security - I finish -, that no one has put on the table to oppose the transfers once ETA disappeared ten years ago. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen; thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u149	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are issues where prudence most likely advises not to ask for the word, but there are days when the heart tells you to shut up and look away would be betraying your conscience. He's one of them today. I have asked for the words saying that this was an uncomfortable debate, either black or white, or you are with us or with the ages, without leaving any room to think differently. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, of the PP, of VOX and of UPN, I sincerely believe that we must stop instrumentalizing the pain of the victims for partisan benefit once and for all. We can't be talking every day about ETA, every day, every day, every day, every day. [[Rumors]] And I don't say it, I don't say it, the victims say it, the victims' families. [[Applauds.-Protests]] The relatives of the victims. The victims of ETA terrorism are often used as an element of political confrontation. A relative said it, I didn't say it, a relative said it. That's why it's worth remembering three things: THIS one ceased its armed activity on October 20, 2011, almost ten years ago; ETA announced its final dissolution on May 2, 2018, almost three years ago; and Aznar, of the PP, approached more than 400 ETA prisoners. And I don't say that, says a victim, Mrs. Olona, Carmen Ordóñez, and you are ruling with those who also approached 400 ETA prisoners. [[Showing a press clipping.-Applause]] Mr. Adanero, have you knelt Aznar? Did the PP kneel? Did they kneel when they moved 400 prisoners? [[Rumors]] I sincerely believe that we must look definitively at the future, and we must celebrate the almost ten years without violence, without deaths and not go back and again to using the victims in obscene ways. [[Rumors.-Mrs. Esteban Calonje utters words that are not perceived.-Protests]] When we talk...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u151	One second, please. Mrs Esteban Calonje, I ask you, please, in the face of the reiteration of your high call and your voice, to leave it, to cease, please. Please allow the intervener to intervene. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u152	As prisoners, Mr Legarda, the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, has already said; but they always forget a detail, behind every prisoner, behind every prisoner, there is a mother, a father, a sister, a brother, a grandmother, a grandfather, a friend, a friend, who have committed no crime, and those whom we are condemning with their obsession, with their obfuscation. We are also condemning relatives; sixteen relatives or friends of prisoners lost their lives when they went or returned to visit a prisoner imprisoned hundreds of kilometres from their home, 400 or 1,000 kilometres. [[A large part of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group leave the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. If we want the laws to be fair, they have to be the same for all, for all, for all. It's over, and I want to do it with a phrase from Nelson Mandela that we should always bear in mind: As I walked out the door to my freedom, I knew that if I didn't leave behind all the anger, all the hate, all the resentment, I would still be a prisoner. Do not continue to be prisoners of his anger. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u153	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u154	Thank you, President. It is up to me to intervene and mark the position of my Confederal Group in this motion by Citizens, but the truth that I have seen the debate and I want to speak more like a Basque citizen, as a Basque citizen more. The first thing that comes to my mind is a question that threw Citizens at me. What does this motion bring to the path of building a stable peace and democratic coexistence in this country? [[A Member of Parliament: Justice!]] What can you do for me? They've seen a circus; a circus that no one benefits from. [[Applauds]] You present here a motion that distils hatred, revenge, ignorance, no respect for the law. Really, I repeat again, what does this motion bring? I would ask you to listen to Basque society, to the common sense that is in Basque society, and to listen to some Basque women who are full of dignity, who have really contributed, who have contributed to coexistence, who are generous; and I would name some of them, and I would ask the right-wing - I don't know, some perhaps have common sense - to listen, for example, to Maixasabel Lasa, Maria Jáuregui, Edurne Brouard, Sara Buesa, Basque women who, despite their suffering, have contributed a great deal to the coexistence and construction of a cohesive Basque society. Having said that, and going to the bottom of the matter, which is an important matter, I understand that many steps have been taken and that many things remain to be done; that the road to progress in building a stable peace and democratic coexistence is full of obstacles. In many cases, as in the recognition of all victims or the recognition of the damage caused, some steps have been taken, but it is clear that steps remain to be taken. Unfortunately, when we talk about people deprived of their liberty, about people imprisoned, there has not been enough progress. From my Confederal Group, we address the situation of prisoners from a comprehensive human rights perspective, which, among other issues, brings closer to the place of origin or residence of family members, which always seeks to ensure humanitarian treatment and which aims and aims to advance those restorative justice policies that facilitate social reintegration. The legal exceptionality of the prison policy - and it must be repeated - entails a penalty added to the sentence and cruel and unjust punishment for the families of prisoners; moreover, the treatment of some prisoners with serious and incurable diseases is far from humanitarian. But this, as I say, does not say either my political force or different political forces; this is reflected in a multitude of reports from international bodies such as the European Court of Human Rights; this has been said by the Basque Parliament with a very, very broad consensus; these demands that we are talking about cannot be dealt with on conditions, they must be addressed without any condition because they respond to the basic foundations of a democratic state and a rule of law. In any event, this does not remove the need for those same democratic and human rights foundations to urge prisoners to move forward in the rejection of violence and to recognize the unfairness of the damage caused and to critically review their past. All this as reparation to the victims and as a better guarantee of non-repetition in the future. In short, the ethics of human rights cannot be relativized. Each of them, each of these rights, must be respected and must be safeguarded specifically and individually without ever being subject to benefits, compensation and subject to the circumstances of the moment. Therefore, let us build a stable society and peace. That's what we owe all the victims. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u155	Thank you so much. Mr Mateu Istúriz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Iñarritu, Mr Baldoví, Mrs Garrido, what an irrational, vomiting and abject speech. You have an absolute lack of respect for the victims of terrorism, and above all for the four victims of terrorism that we are nosing here. [[Mr. Baldoví Roda makes negative gestures]] We are talking about our fellow Members having lost children, brothers and sisters; I personally have lost, killed by ETA, my father and a brother within eight years. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, please stop swallowing absolutely with everything the billionaires do to you; follow your own path, because you have had eleven murdered within your ranks. Of course, it's a real morality. Every time Mr. Grande-Marlaska goes up to this rostrum or intervenes from the seat we are outraged and more angry at the victims of terrorism and, of course, we see that his moral chastisement is not the one that must have a minister of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grande-Marlaska is trying to convince us that this rapprochement of prisoners to the prisons in his territory is due to compliance with prison legislation, as is the transfer of prison powers. We all know why that is going to be done; obviously so that the prisoners age, once they are near their homes, road and blanket and then, freedom, and then we are all already happy in the territory of Euskadi, which is where they want to go. We have a clear example that once in the Basque prisons it will happen as in Catalonia: luxury prisons, leaving and entering whenever they want and receiving visits that other prisoners are denied. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group return to the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today more than 160 prisoners, 81% of the 197, have been brought to Basque prisons, and the government continues to claim that it complies with prison legislation. Pardon me, ladies and gentlemen, but the expression that comes out of me is the one that will make me satisfied: that is a lie, it is the payment to the support made by the billionaires, nationalists and other independentists to the policies of the SocialCommunist Government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not explain to me why this visit of the spokesman of Bildu to the prison of the Port of Santa Maria is allowed to visit 12 of the bloodiest ages, among which is Henri Parot, author of 82 murders, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, and who accumulates 26 sentences and 4800 years in prison in the face of the silence of the minister; about what we have asked several times and absolute silence, but I will tell you. That lady was an emissary to tell the murderers of the era: still, still, that the time will come for you to approach the prisons of the Basque Country and then, from there, to freedom, but not passing the law, as was done in the democratic transition. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that Mr Parot, by calling him in some way, the murderer Parot!, was the one who named a doctrine, in which the release of prisoners was much later meant when he was dismissed by the European Court of Human Rights in 2013, where Judge Grande-Marlaska, then president of the Criminal Chamber of the National Court, played a role. [[applause]] [[The lady]] Madam emissary of the Government, Mrs Aizpurua - I do not see her - when I visit again the murderer Parot, the murderer of my father - I insist - and who also put the bomb in Zaragoza barracks - Mr Alcaraz, is it not so?, because we continue with the subject - tell him that in the Spanish Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies, there is a parliamentary group, that of the People's Party, which is very vigilant in the fulfillment of such simple requirements, that being human - they are not - could arise, as repentance, forgiveness, the denial of violence, so we will always be very vigilant in its fulfillment. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as forgiveness is concerned, I remind you of the fact that the National Court rejected the letters in which the ages asked for forgiveness, classifying them only as generic letters. Ladies and gentlemen, it is such an indignity and filth with which this government acts that the day after making us this mask of jacking seized guns, weapons seized from the terrorist band ETA, brought 6 prisoners to the prisons of the Basque Country. But, ladies and gentlemen, who do you think you're kidding? It is a lack of respect for the memory, dignity and justice of the victims [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the Government, what should be done was to imprison your indignity, to imprison the pacts that you maintain with Bildu, to imprison the pacts that you have with other unworthy forces that, when not, have supported the ends that ETA has pursued through murder, terror and extortion. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a thought, let me. Although ETA has been defeated by the police, its social, educational and moral spirit remains unhappily alive among all of us, living primarily in Bildu, and accepted and consented to by a government that has made incompetence, lack of transparency, lack of empathy with the victims of terrorism, as is demonstrated day by day by its actions, and lies by its management model. I conclude, Mr President, by announcing our vote in favour of this motion as a result of an inquiry because it contains points with which we actually agree, but our ideas and our actions will never be exhausted in them. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u157	Thank you, Mr. Mateu. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the right, the Socialist Party, not a single lesson, not a lesson, on ETA, on the fight against terrorism and on prison policy; not one, neither Mr Patxi López, nor Mr Odón Elorzani, to the hundreds and hundreds of fellow militants of the Basque Socialist Party who for years fought ETA terrorism, ladies and gentlemen. [[applause]] Not a single lesson! [[Applauds]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that democracy is sometimes hard for some, especially for those who do not believe in it, and especially for those who are unable to hear opinions against and opinions that have nothing to do with their view of society or their understanding of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, they have deployed so much dignity today that I am drawn to the attention that a few days ago in Murcia they did not have it the same to pay with public money to three transfugas, atres, with public money. [[applause]] The same dignity, the same that you are raising here today, apply to all your political actions, the same, ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests]] To us all victims hurt, absolutely all, there's only one difference with you, we don't use them politically.. [[protests]] [[protests continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u159	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u160	We haven't used them, nor are we ever going to use them. [[Protests.-Applause.]] There's another difference with you, gentlemen of the right, very big. The Socialist Party has always supported you, always, always been loyal to you. You've never been with us, ever. Those are the differences, ladies and gentlemen, between this party and yours and yours For the only thing that has served this motion today is to see that the lords of Citizens are also waiting with their arms open on VOX, especially seeing how they are applauding you, ladies and gentlemen. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[pointing to the Citizen Parliamentary Group]] That's what he's doing. Today we are bringing to this House - Mr Baldoví has said - a debate that is not in society, there is no such debate in society. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín utters words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen, March 1998, ETA murdering, and here a motion was adopted in November of that year asking all political parties to open a channel of dialogue with the terrorist band ETA, supported by everyone with one exception. In 1998, terrorism is the second problem for the Spanish, 33.2%. January 2012, the disbanded terrorist gang, terrorism is a problem for 1.3% of Spanish people. February 2021, CIS released today, zero percent. You want to tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what debate is this? Do you want to tell me, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, that yesterday, with Mrs Arrimadas, they all joined in the new direction by saying what they were going to do and that they were going to talk about what matters to the citizens, and it turns out that today they are presenting this motion which has nothing to do with what the citizens say? [[Rumors.-Mr. Alonso Pérez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u161	Excuse me, Mr. Serrada. Mr. Alonso Pérez, I'm asking you to be quiet, please. [[Rumors]] Go on, Mr. Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, is this government committing any illegality with the prison policy it is implementing? No, none. You know why? Because it is the same prison policy that you applied, the same, has not changed, constitutional principles and General Prison Law, the same, individualized treatment, the same as your interior ministers said, the same. [[Applauds]] Prison policy has not changed, you have changed because you are in the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, and because you are not loyal. I'll remind you one thing: ETA is gone, ETA no longer kills, fortunately. The sad thing is that you need ETA to continue living politically and to bring into this House debates that have nothing to do with what is happening in this country. [[Applauds]] I was wondering when Mr. Adanero started this. Mr. Adanero asked a good question when this started. Did it start when you at UPN met with Herri Batasuna, killing ETA, to approve budgets? Did it start then? When did it start? Or did it begin, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in 1996, when they approached 33 prisoners and gave 13 third degrees? Or in 1997, when ETA killed 13 people and you approached 26 prisoners and granted seven third degrees? Or in 1998, with six murders, 26 prisoners approached and gave 4 third degrees? [[applause.-Mr. García Adanero makes negative signs]] In 1999, the record figure was 105 prisoners. When did it start, Mr. Adanero? When did it start, ladies of the People's Party? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, patriotism of cans and dignity of cans. Ladies and gentlemen, these debates in this House, in this situation which we are experiencing right now as an economic crisis, as a health crisis, are absolutely unproductive to continue to make progress in our country. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. Mr Cambronero, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u164	We're still doing a transaction with the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u165	All right. Thank you very much, Mr Cambronero. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to cast their votes by telematic procedure cannot do so from their seats. First, we voted to take into consideration the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, amending Act No. 49/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the taxation of non-profit entities and tax incentives for sponsorship. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109, plus 238 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 67 plus 178 telematics votes, 245; against, 42 plus 46 telematics votes, 88; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u167	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, INTEGRATED PROTECTION AND FAMILY SUPPORT. [[File number 122/000028]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u168	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the proposed law of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, comprehensive protection and support for families. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 109, plus 238 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 43 plus 119 telematics votes, 162; against, 66 plus 117 telematics votes, 183; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-03-16-CD210316.u169	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Good night, everyone. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night. Error correction. In the Journal of Sessions, No. 86, for plenary session No. 82, held on Thursday, 11 March 2021, on page 6, section 'Debates on all legislative initiatives. [[Voting]] ', second paragraph, fourth line, where it says: 'it is rejected by 36 votes in favour plus 115, 251;', it must say: 'it is rejected by 36 votes in favour plus 115 telematics votes, 151;'. On page 74, in the result of the first vote, where it says: 'votes cast, 104 plus 243 telematic votes, 247;' it should say: 'votes cast, 104 plus 243 telematic votes, 347;'. On the rest of the ballots on page 74, where it says: 'votes cast, 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 248;', it should say: 'votes cast, 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348;'. On page 78, second ballot, where it says: 'in favour, 36 plus 115 telematic votes, 251;', you must say: 'in favour, 36 plus 115 telematic votes, 151;'.
