ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the item on the debate on the whole of the draft State General Budgets Act for the year 2022. First and foremost, for the presentation of the bill, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance and Public Service. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u2	Thank you very much, President. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all. I rise to the rostrum to defend before this House the handling of the 2022 State General Budgets. They are public accounts, ladies and gentlemen, extraordinary and indispensable in order to consolidate the economic and social recovery of our country and, above all, to ensure that it is a fair recovery that reaches all people, all territories and all sectors; accounts, ladies and gentlemen, that allow us to leave behind all this period so hard that we have lived as a society, the crisis resulting from the pandemic, which has caused so much suffering to our compatriots by putting, as this Government always does, at the centre of people, their needs and their expectations. We are truly witnessing an era change that involves new paradigms and that require a new way of understanding politics and, above all, of being able to address new political impulses and face our immediate future with determination, optimism and hope, convinced as we are of our strengths as a country and our resilience as we have demonstrated - and has always done so in Spain throughout our history - and especially in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis of the coronavirus has left us many lessons. One of them is that we have to learn to move in a scenario of uncertainty, volatility, with profound changes that occur at great speed and elements of uncertainty that we have to be able to handle. I would say that prudence is always necessary, but much more in the current context. Clearly, although our country is at the head of the world in vaccination, the pandemic will continue until we reach sufficient coverage worldwide. Hence, ladies and gentlemen, the President's announcement these days is intensifying our efforts to donate vaccines so that they can reach those countries, those people who have difficulty in their accessibility. And we must also pay attention - and we are - to the impact that the rise in energy prices or bottlenecks in supply chains, all of them also analysed at the recent international summit, can have on global recovery. These are issues that we are pushing and mobilizing closely from the Government, although most analysts and international agencies are confident that developments will be positive in the coming months and therefore the effect of these variables is transitory. To be prudent is reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, but focusing only on potentially negative aspects or even magnifying them does not help to have a more accurate diagnosis. Moreover, doing so distorts reality, making it difficult to find effective solutions to problems. And I want to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen: that the scenario is volatile does not mean that we do not have a well-defined course. On the contrary, it reaffirms us in the values and commitments that this progressive government, with President Sánchez at the head, has acquired with the Spanish and Spanish as a whole; values and commitments by which the President obtained the confidence of the majority of this House in January 2020. Now those commitments are more important than ever because they have to sustain the values in our actions and they have to guide this political momentum. Social justice, the defence of public services and freedom, the commitment to democratic quality, the commitment to dialogue and the strengthening of territorial cohesion are principles that guide us in each of our actions since the beginning of this legislature. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the outbreak of the pandemic has not diverted even a millimetre of those targets, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, they are more present than ever in these budgets that we are debating today. Because beyond the figures and the percentages, the specific policies and programmes, what the public accounts express are the priorities of a government of progress that wants the best for our country and these The accounts of these budgets are very clear, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we want to strengthen the middle and working class of this country, which is the backbone of our social and legal state. We also want to protect the most vulnerable groups because, ladies and gentlemen, we can share that no society can consider itself advanced if it does not try to correct the social gaps that perpetuate inequalities. And we have said this many times: inequality is a serious social injustice, but it is also inefficient from the economic point of view because it slows down growth and limits the development of talent. Nor can any country progress if it allows its middle class and working class to deteriorate, as happened, if you remember, in the previous financial crisis. An impoverished middle class is not only expressing a weak economy or a precarious labour market, but also a democracy more vulnerable to the rise of populism. That is why these budgets are intended to be the reinforcement that will drive our middle class at a stage of economic and social recovery and, at the same time, we seek to make them an antidote against those populisms that promise simple solutions to complex problems. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking to you about the teachings of the pandemic. And perhaps one of the most powerful has been the immense value of the public, which has emerged clearly. It is the strong States that make it possible to preserve security in democratic coexistence, ensuring the general interest and protecting our rights and freedoms. That is why with these public accounts we want to revitalize the welfare state; a welfare state that, despite being weakened after years of cuts, has protected us - and must be clearly stated - in the worst crisis that has affected us as a society in recent decades. This is why these accounts have more resources than ever before for scholarships, health care, dependency, social services or housing. I will insist whenever necessary: investing in social spending is not a waste, it is the guarantee of a more just and cohesive society and it is the basis for more balanced economic growth. That's why public accounts are also the lever to modernize our productive fabric and adapt it to the post-COVID world that is being configured. I believe that all groups are aware of the shortcomings that our productive model presented before the pandemic, including excessive timing, precariousness, the small size of our businesses or low productivity, issues that make us more vulnerable to crises. That is why we need to take a qualitative leap forward with transformative reforms and policies, which will enable us to forge the foundations for stronger and smarter, more balanced and sustainable economic growth and, above all, more just. We need our companies to grow and gain business opportunities, to be more productive and competitive in sectors that are already being decisive such as digitisation or green transition. We want qualified, high-value-added jobs to be created by this transformation that will enable us to offer more stability and more decent wages. That is, that our country gains competitiveness and grows thanks to R & D & I and to a better qualified human capital and not, ladies and gentlemen, at the expense of labour rights or the impoverishment of the middle and working classes, as happened in the previous crisis. This has been and continues to be the goal of this progressive Government and the pandemic has only strengthened our conviction. That is why the numbers, the accounts make a unique bet for science, for vocational training or for increasing the digital competences of citizens. They are the most investor budgets in our history, thanks to the exceptional contribution of European funds, a unique opportunity - as we always say - that we cannot afford to miss. Because never before, look, had there been so many resources to help our productive fabric, our industry, our SMEs and our self-employed and, ultimately, all the traditional sectors and also those that are emerging forcefully. I would like to highlight in a singular way the culture, ladies and gentlemen, which is much more than a policy or a department, and which has gone so badly during this crisis. Culture makes us better as a society, because it allows us to develop critical thinking and strengthen democratic values. That is why this Government wants the world of culture to have in these accounts the opportunity to take a new impulse and also to be an engine of recovery and dynamism. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, every generation - I think we can agree on this - has the moral responsibility or, at least, the aspiration to try to leave a legacy, a better legacy than they found. I believe that most groups can share this ambition because this is done by the whole of Spanish society. No one, absolutely no one, wants a worse future for their daughters and grandchildren. Unfortunately, our youth has been marked by two serious crises: the financial crisis of 2008 and that of COVID. Both have significantly missed their possibilities for vital and also professional development. This, and not another, is the reason that has led the Government to give priority attention to our young people in these budgets. We make an extraordinary effort in policies that improve their training and training, that allow them access to decent and also stable jobs and that facilitate access to housing so that they can emancipate themselves and develop their vital project or that they enjoy, ladies and gentlemen, an environment and a healthier planet as they wish. So far, we have tried to bring together the initiatives that the Government has developed each of these objectives, but the budget is a definitive instrument that allows us to increase justice, social cohesion, strengthen public services and improve democratic quality. There is a very important section that has to do with territorial vertebration in which I am going to try to stop briefly. This Government has demonstrated to a great extent that we believe in the model of the territorial organization of the State, that we strongly defend it, that we are committed to co-governance and decentralization, and also, ladies and gentlemen, to dialogue as a way of solving the problems we have encountered. During the pandemic we have set an example, we have taken unprecedented measures for the benefit of the autonomous communities or local entities. We have put at the disposal of the territorial administrations a wealth of resources that has no precedent, so that they can sustain public services and cope with the drop in revenues without added tensions in their public accounts, and this is a commitment that is re-demonstrated with these accounts. On the one hand, with an ambitious deployment of measures and initiatives to tackle one of the main challenges we have as a country, which is the demographic challenge and emptied Spain, and on the other, we once again sustain and strengthen in a very meaningful way the resources of the administrations by solving the negative liquidation or the problem of VAT generated by the People's Party to all the territorial administrations, not just to autonomous communities. In this regard, with regard to the situation generated by the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court on capital gains tax, I would like to announce that at the time when we study the judgment - which we are already doing - we will bring to the Council of Ministers a legal text to correct those elements that have been declared unconstitutional by giving tranquillity and security to taxpayers and the financing of local entities. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, so far I have tried to summarise what are the signs of identity, the fundamental keys of these budgets which, as it cannot be otherwise, are the ones that inspire this progressive government. On the other hand, I would like to share a reflection before going into the detailed explanation of the figures and policies contained in these accounts. You see, we have been listening for several years to very large arguments about what happens when this draft budget or any other budget enters the Courts for approval. Peyorative disqualifications are used quite lightly, words such as treason, blackmail or humiliation are used, to say only the softest, and it is done knowingly that it is a lie and is false. We said it last year and we repeat it again this year, because they do not care what arguments are behind the accounts, but precisely what is explained, what is expressed, is the opposite. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot blame a government for working to the point of exhaustion to defend the general interest, for doing so from dialogue, from respect for the political forces as a whole, and this government will continue to do so in every initiative that comes to this House. At this point, I think I have an obligation to remember that trying to get as much support as possible from a draft budget is not an eccentricity, it is not an originality, it is nothing more or less than the obligation of any government that wants stability, governance and the usefulness of politics. It is about finding that which unites us, we already know everything that differentiates us, and therefore know what and what these public accounts bring for. Citizens never vote wrong, ladies and gentlemen, as anyone seems to want to understand. They legitimately choose the political option that they think best represents their interests, we like it more or less, we agree more or less with the ideologies behind each formation, of each lordship present in this House. That is the greatness of democracy, which houses us all and offers us channels to express our differences - in things where we cannot reach agreements - and also to reach consensus through dialogue. Being political opponents - listen, ladies and gentlemen of the right - should never invalidate the search for the general interest. On the contrary, this situation makes dialogue and consensus even more valuable because the agreements reached between those of us who think differently, who have different ideologies, different ways of understanding politics or society, are those that really generate profound and lasting changes, those that have a transformative impulse for the well-being and progress of the country. I would therefore like to thank those groups who have expressed their willingness to continue with these budgets. I should like to thank you, because we are opening the way for you, through the partial amendments, to consider what you understand can enrich this text. I know that confidence is earned day by day and we will show that dialogue is possible to advance in meeting points that look for the general interest. And those groups that have tabled an amendment to the whole of these accounts have at least moved us to have a frank debate, where we can contrast ideas and proposals, from the respect and education that should always preside over relations in this Parliament. I say this because, as you can imagine in this country, there is plenty of chasm, ladies and gentlemen, there is plenty of noise and short sailing, overwork and burning land policy. It's useless, it's not useful for citizens. [[Applauds]] This country lacks constructive criticism, which can and must make an opposition that one day aspires to carry the reins of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you that these budgets mark the path of a country looking forward with optimism, with young people in the first place and with science supporting all decisions. We are not content - and we have repeated it over and over again over the last few months - with returning to the starting point at which we were in February 2020. We all know that we were dragging along a series of structural problems that we had to tackle, many of them aggravated by the prescriptions applied after the financial crisis. Austericide policies which have increased the rates of precariousness, poverty and inequality, weakened, as never before, public services and which have, we must say, missed convergence between territories. The economic policy of the People's Party, of which the right-wing bench so much presumes, did not serve to make our economy more robust or better prepared, nor to improve our human capital or to lay the foundations for technological transformation. The policies which were then applied disregarded science, put at risk the sustainability of pensions, cut citizens' rights and reduced the capacity and autonomy of territorial administrations through the back door. Finally, they did not provide solutions to issues such as youth unemployment, the demographic challenge or the problem of accessibility to housing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they were economically as ineffective as they were unjust from a social perspective. On the other hand, what has this government done? It has shown that there was a different way of managing the crisis, with a social shield that has made it possible to protect income and employment. And now with the new accounts we want to also show that there is another way to manage recovery so that it reaches everyone and is fair. And what is the macroeconomic context in which these budgets are situated? Well, again, as you know, in a scenario of suspension of tax rules. I am therefore not going to reproduce this part because it has been the subject of debate many times in this House. I just want to remind you that the absence of fiscal rules does not in any way imply that we do not work with fiscal responsibility. Indeed, the Government's commitment is to continue to reduce the deficit and public debt. In particular, the public deficit - listen - will fall next year to 5% of GDP. This means that in just two years we will have managed to reduce it by more than half. Similarly, we will do with the debt, so the forecast is that the debt-to-GDP ratio will drop 4 points in just one year. In this regard, I would like to recall that the European Commission has just launched a consultation on the future framework for economic governance. The objective is nothing other than to move towards a consensus on how and how we need to apply tax rules in the future when economic conditions so advise. But we can't do it before, ladies and gentlemen, as much as some are in a hurry. According to the Commission itself, setting a process of premature fiscal consolidation would be counterproductive for recovery, in addition to having a high social and economic cost. It is clear that most of us have learned from the previous crisis and the pandemic, although the right-wing bench in this country seems to have lived in another world. We have learned from the mistakes of applying austere policies, although unfortunately we still have the fight with theses that continue to be defended since 2008 by his lords, mainly from the People's Party. Everyone, absolutely all the international agencies agree that our country - as much as it weighs them - is going to experience clear growth in 2022, which is considered to be one of the highest in the developed economies. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Come on!]] I know they don't like it. And why, ladies and gentlemen? To a large extent, thanks to the spectacular - it must be said loud and clear - vaccination campaign that is allowing us, minister, to maintain the pandemic in a low-risk incidence and to put an end to the time and time constraints. [[Applauds]] In our country, as you know, we are very much given to recognize the things we do wrong and to have little regard for the things we do right. I would say that some things in this country - and I think I am not mistaken - we have done very well. In particular I would like to highlight three because it is the merit of each and every one and therefore of society as a whole. The first is that we are at the head of the world with the highest percentage of the vaccinated population: 88,5% of the citizens-look at the figure - it already has the two doses administered. The second issue I want to highlight is that we have been one of the countries that has best managed, minister, during the pandemic, education, the protection of our children, the protection of our children. [[Applauds]] And the third is that in this crisis, unlike in the past, we have avoided a massive exit of workers from the labour market, driven and supported by the agreements that have been the fruit of social dialogue. Again, thank you and we will continue to go hand in hand with entrepreneurs and trade unions. [[Applauds]] As soon as they compare what we have experienced and what is happening in other advanced economies, they will see that all these elements are a source of pride and that they speak very well of the society, the capacity and the strength that we have as a country. As we have been pointing out, this year the economy is going from less to more. If you remember, we started 2021 in the middle of the third wave, with difficulties in the supply of vaccines and with the Filomena storm, issues that, as a whole, caused a parenthesis in the pace of recovery. But from the summer we have been gaining intensity, as shown by the main high-frequency indicators that you have available and the progress of GDP in the third quarter, a 2% increase that reflects that the recovery continues to accelerate its pace and, above all, with a better quality - this is the important thing - in the composition of growth. As I said at the outset, it is clear that the news about bottlenecks in the global supply chain, the escalation of energy prices and the evolution of inflation are sufficient grounds to be vigilant and to remain vigilant. However, today, the consensus of the experts believes that this is a situation that is not going to slow down the intense recovery of our country, which is planned by each and every international body. And we have reasonably positive indicators, both in consumption and in tourism as well as in the level of exports or industrial production. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a sensitive indicator in our country, if there is a key indicator is employment. The latest data we have known today, the EPA data, are very eloquent and speak for themselves. The unemployment and membership data published this morning reflect that recovery is a reality, even though it is in spite of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] The unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, came down in October, a fact that happens for the first time in our history; it is the first time in the forty-six years that we have a historical series. In the last eight months, the number of unemployed has been reduced by 751 721 people, and the number of participants in this month of October reached the figure of 19662,163 people; ladies and gentlemen, the highest number of membership in our history. [[Applauds]] Today in Spain - I want to make it clear - more people work than before the pandemic and that when the People's Party ruled, because in the last year the membership has increased by 700,000 people. [[applause]] And if we look at the third-quarter EPA data, job creation has been concentrated in the private sector and the number of indefinite contracts, a clearly qualitative indicator, reaches 12.5 million people. It is the highest number in the historical series of indefinite contracts, which allow stability and therefore allow workers to make their own vital project. [[Applauds]] Another particularly encouraging fact remains the reduction in youth unemployment, with which I started my intervention, with a decrease of 7.3 points in the quarter and 9.3 points over the previous year. But believe me, we don't settle for these figures, much less. Behind every unemployed person there is a reason for this Government to continue to promote a fairer labour market and new opportunities for reintegration and retraining. But it is clear - and it must be acknowledged - that the policies we have implemented throughout this period have been effective initiatives and have enabled us, ladies and gentlemen, to cushion the crisis. Because if in the previous financial crisis economic activity took almost ten years to recover and twelve years to do so employment, now, with these economic and social policies, which are very different, with the social shield, with the boost of European funds, the Spanish economy will soon recover the level of employment and the level of growth. And so the projections for the first quarter of next year, which will be, compared to the first of this year, a quarter with an intense economic activity, even higher than that recorded in 2019 without a pandemic, show - no matter how many people do not want to read it. We therefore maintain these growth forecasts within the environment endorsed by the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority, which is at the core of this important agency. I now turn to the revenue section, which is probably the most impact on public accounts, together with employment, on this growth. Improvements in the labour market, consumption and investment result in an increase in tax collection. Notice, by 2022 our forecast is that tax revenues are going to grow to 8.1%, a really prudent figure if two factors are taken into account: the first is that the nominal GDP projected for 2022 is in the environment of 8.6%, i.e. 8.6% of nominal GDP and 8.1% of collection forecast. In addition, a particularly significant fact is that in this year, with lower growth, it is definitely the year to come, by 2022, that the collection will close with an improvement on 10.8% of growth compared to 2020. In other words, GDP behaves in the way it definitely behaves, and it is true that the year will close with an increase of the improved collection or above 10,8 %. Take note of a recent fact that I will give you next. These are figures, they are not speculations or imaginations. It's numbers. Spain's collection up to October - already closed, a month liquidated - has experienced an increase, from January to October, of 14% compared to the previous year and in homogeneous terms. In other words, we are raising 14% more than we did in 2020. Please note that the forecast of this government was around 10.8%. That is why - and I know it bothers you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and I don't understand why - you say what you say, whatever the definitive growth data, the reality is that, from January to October, the collection has been carried out with a 14% increase. [[applause]] Therefore, let the projection go to 10.8%, at least you will understand that it is extremely prudent and is a goal that we can easily achieve. I will also comment on improvements in another of the indicators, another of the usual mantras that usually move the right. This collection is not linked to any increase in taxes. [[Rumors]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it has been the result of income protection, the strengthening of tax bases and greater economic dynamism, which explains the expected income. But they know - because they always whisper when we talk about this section - that the government has entrusted the work to a committee of experts for the in-depth review of our tax system. The aim is nothing other than a modern tax system adapted to the economy of the 21st century, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, a tax system that is fairer. We expect them to make their conclusions in February, so we have included three adjustments in these accounts alone, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already explained. Firstly, the establishment of a minimum rate of 15 % in corporate tax so that companies with turnover of more than EUR 20 million or forming consolidated groups can be applied to them. A measure which, far from what the People's Party says, directly benefits small businesses, SMEs and the self-employed, because we reduce unfair competition in the comparison of the tax effort made by small businesses vis-à-vis large companies. A fiscal measure, ladies and gentlemen, which has been the subject of debate, both in international forums - the OECD - and in the recent G20 summit, which has practically the unanimous consensus of all countries, especially Europeans. But, as always, it has the discrepancy of the right of Spain, which must be a right different from all the others that move on the international ground. An adjustment, ladies and gentlemen, which affects only 0.1 % of our companies. That is why you will understand that when I hear adjectives like 'hacho', 'hell' and everything that your right-wing colleagues repeat in the amendments to the whole, I can only blush, because saying this 0.1 %, of this adjustment to the total of our companies is, at least, ridiculous. I'll remind you of something. One in three Spanish multinationals claims to pay for companies worldwide, at a global level, less than 10%, 16% on average, far from what SMEs, which are around 21%, are taxing. It makes no sense that a small company is paying for this type, and that the large multinationals are just below what most of our country's productive fabric contributes with its contribution. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be the result, as I say to you, of an international consensus in which, as in other matters, Spain is at the forefront and is also marking the momentum. Secondly, we reinforce the tax incentive for employment plans, for pensions resulting from agreements in companies and what has been decided in the collective agreement, so that the deduction limit for the company is raised to EUR 8500, while the joint threshold - company and workers - is still maintained at EUR 10,000. As a novelty, in this measure the worker will be given the option so that he can match his contribution to that of the company, without the sum of the two exceeding that amount. With this, ladies and gentlemen - as Minister Escriva has explained on different occasions - we intend to promote the shared effort between employees and companies, promote the second pillar of the pension model and follow the lines of the recommendations that marked the Toledo Pact. We therefore improve the overall reduction limit by contribution to the individual pension plan, reaching EUR 1500. And I would remind you at this point that this last point is a tax benefit that has been pointed out as regressive, both by the European Commission and by the AIReF itself. Thirdly, the current limits which allow the system of modules to be taxed on income tax and VAT are extended. A measure that certainly helps the self-employed who are governed under this modality, saving about 115 million euros of this type of business from our productive model. Therefore, I would like to ask with a clear voice, where is, ladies and gentlemen, the supposed fiscal hell said by the right-wings who hide these accounts? Because we must be rigorous also in the criticisms, we must reserve the adjectives for those issues that deserve it, and we can never, from anywhere, try to deceive people with false and expired arguments that do not hold up with numbers. I repeat, budgets, these accounts, do not raise taxes, do not raise tax pressure. [[Rumors]] On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u4	On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen. They directly benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applauds]] In two ways, with all the aid to improve competitiveness and internationalisation, but also indirectly, leaving them unfairly competent over other consolidated groups. They benefit above all the self-employed, with measures that will allow them to grow and have greater security. And it benefits citizens, families, the middle classes, who contribute with their taxes according to their ability to receive also according to their need; either, ladies and gentlemen, with direct transfer, or through public services that guarantee their rights and which also allow them to release disposable income. Look, around 5542 euros per year and in Spanish - or 7200 if we add European funds - is what frees up these accounts that we bring here today from disposable income. And if you are given to the political reflection of depth, you can agree with me that this indirect release of disposable income is what allows us to widen our middle class, to make a giant leap in relation to the status we have to achieve in the future and, therefore, to be really the social engine and economic engine of the whole of our country. So important, ladies and gentlemen, that the commitment of these budgets to this widening of the middle class will allow them not to have to be concerned about this excellence of basic public services, because they know that they are insured if, at the moment, the disease occurs, if vulnerability occurs, or if the talent of our children directly allows us to continue our studies. [[Rumors]] That is why, in closing this paragraph, I would also like to say that the fight against fraud and tax evasion are the priority objectives of this Government. [[The Rumors Continue]] In fact, next year we will provide the Tax Agency with more economic resources and human resources. It will have a budget close to 17 billion, the largest we have recorded to date, and in addition the staffing will be strengthened with 1043 troops. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u5	Excuse me, Minister. I ask you, please, to lower the tone of your conversations because there is a permanent rumor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u6	Thank you, President. I would tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no fiscal justice if we do not fight fraud and circumvention in the payment of our obligations and, therefore, each one being respectful of the legal framework and persecuting those who are not. We already have a new instrument, a new law that just a few weeks ago passed this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to comment on how spending policies are articulated in these budgets, taking into account the particularity of the fact that we are once again receiving a very important allocation from European funds. In particular, it is 26 355 million who contribute the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, 3.8% more than in the previous year. For its part, what we could call the national budget amounts to 169 787 million, 0.7 % more than in the previous year. The limit on non-financial expenditure is therefore 196,142 million, a figure similar to that of the previous year, which represents the largest spending ceiling in our history. And I will stop just a few minutes to explain the situation of the European funds, as is the state in which they are incorporated in this exercise and the distribution that we propose for 2022. I think it is important, ladies and gentlemen, that society as a whole should be aware of the immense work that is being done by all - I say all - the territorial administrations, the public administrations that are planning, managing and implementing these resources. If you remember, it was in June when the Commission approved the plan, and as of today we have 9 billion pre-financing and we are finalizing the request for the disbursement of another 10,000, according to the timetable of milestones and targets that we have committed. It is implementing the information system that will allow us to coordinate closely among all actors, and it will monitor progress that will allow for proper monitoring and accountability in a transparent manner. With regard to implementation, I can say that 51.8 % of obligations have already been committed at present - given as at 31 October. Obligations amounting to 34,4 % of the total have been recognised and we have already authorised expenditure of 67,5 % of the amounts entered. An execution figure that is reaching cruise speed, and the pace will also accelerate over the coming weeks. And next year, as I said, we have planned more than 26.3 billion. Of these, almost nine out of ten will be devoted to investment, the priority of which is energy transition, digitisation or sustainable mobility. I will only give you some figures: for the modernization of industry, for what we have come to call the reindustrialisation of our country, we have allocated more than 31 billion; for the rehabilitation of housing and energy efficiency more than 28 billion; for sustainable mobility 38 billion; the momentum to our small and medium-sized enterprise has reflected more than 2140 million; the strengthening of the science system is reflected with more than 1660 million; infrastructures, resilient ecosystems amount to 28 billion. And so, ladies and gentlemen, I could continue with the whole of the productive fabric. I will only tell you that we are spending more than 500 million to expand the capacities of the National Health System, or more than 2000 million to improve the education system, digital skills or vocational training. [[Applauds]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a unique opportunity to change our country with the greatest transformative momentum since the transition, and we have an obligation here not to frustrate this opportunity, because if we miss it or miss this train it will hardly pass another, and it depends on us and on us, on our ability to reach agreements that this huge amount of resources can reach the last corner of the territory, to all families, to all households, to all SMEs, to all those who need the public momentum for their recovery or for the improvement of their status. In fact, the accounts provide that the autonomous communities will receive from these funds 8712 million and that the municipalities will do so with 2050 million, amounts that can also be improved throughout our execution. It is an unprecedented bet for this co-governance, and therefore for the firmness of our belief in the social and legal state, where continuity and reinforcement in time speak for themselves that we want to walk by the hand of the autonomous communities and local entities. Citizens need us all absolutely. If you have been able to analyse the extensive documentation accompanying these accounts - sometimes it gives me the feeling that it is not, because of the repetitive retahíla that, whatever comes in the budgets, is repeated by the People's Party bench - you will have seen the deployment of the different spending policies reflected in the books. I'm going to refer to some of them and I'm going to try to do it in not too long. 55.7% of the national budget, i.e. without European funds, is spent on social expenditure. More than half of the efforts made by these public accounts are directed at individuals, households and families. There are 240,375 million who have no other desire than to contribute to the improvement of people's lives, the greatest figure in history. And what are we going to do with this social investment? Of course, first of all, pensions, which in aggregate terms increase by 4.8% to 171 165 million. And you know that this government wants to offer security and tranquillity to our elders, in compliance with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact. Our country's pension system, ladies and gentlemen, is sustainable, we are demonstrating it, it can continue today and in time. [[applause]] And a unique element of this budget is that, from now on, the revaluation of the pensions of our elders is disconnected from the budgets, because it will be determined by the law being dealt with in this House, where it is fixed that the contributory pensions will increase according to the average CPI recorded in November of the previous year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen who are concerned about the scope of our elders, I would like to make it clear to you that, since this government has arrived in Moncloa, security and tranquillity on this issue is what is going on and we no longer have to be concerned about 0.25 % or what the will of the government in office will be. Now the revaluation of pensions will be by law and no budget law will be able to change it. [[Applauds]] I can tell you that, in addition to this, we are making a greater effort than minimum pensions and non-contributory pensions, which are growing by 3%. I mean, with all this data you will see that more than ten million pensioners are going to improve their purchasing capacity with these accounts. In addition, we continue to make progress in the budgetary balance of Social Security, continuing with the separation of sources of funding. The budget provides for an extraordinary transfer of 18 396 million, 32.1% more than in the previous year, in order to cope with what is called inappropriate social security expenditure. As these non-contributory pensions rise, so does the minimum living income, which is updated to 3%. It is a measure that already reaches more than 800,000 people, and that is the key - defined by the majority of experts involved in the study of these subjects - in the fight against child poverty, because four out of ten beneficiaries are minors. Four out of every ten persons are minors who directly benefit from this family income. In addition, they know that this policy is constantly being updated, expanding coverage, speeding up management, ultimately improving its effectiveness and actually making it possible to reach the people who need it. In fact, we will reinforce it with a supplement of up to 100 euros per dependent child that will also be able to receive people with low incomes. For its part, social services, social promotion increases almost a billion, reaching 6154. I would like to highlight the rise of 23% for attention to dependency; it is 600 million more for the guaranteed minimum level and the agreed level, something that is undoubtedly demanded by the autonomous communities, by the groups of vulnerable people and, ultimately, by all those who dedicate their efforts to the protection of those who need greater opportunities. [[Applauds]] Similarly, the comprehensive prevention of gender-based violence is provided with 209 million, adding thirty more, fulfilling the commitment of the State Pact. This makes it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for example, to double the transfers to local authorities, from EUR 20 million to EUR 40 million. But the struggle for equality or for work reconciliation is present in an identity in all the figures of the budget. In short, as the gender impact report puts it, 90% of all budget programmes contribute to gender equality. It is a particularly important fact for a progressive feminist government, which makes the struggle for equality one of its main signs of identity. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, the protection of children, families and adolescents is increased by 40 million, and the Co-responsible Plan is strengthened to offer reconciliation solutions to families with children under 14 years of age, providing it with 190 million and making it possible, in addition, something that is not less, that is that the autonomous communities can use the unexecuted remnant of the previous exercise. In fact, the other report accompanying this budget, which talks about the impact on children, adolescents and the family, points out that more than 15% of spending programmes directly or indirectly finance youth and youth policies. Another relevant decision for many families, in this case of low incomes, is the 2.5% increase in IPREM, an indicator, ladies and gentlemen, whose increase will benefit more than a million people, not to mention their direct family members, and, on the other hand, also for these vulnerable groups, the 44% increase in the share of the thermal social bonus, reaching 157 million. I think we can share that this is a tool that allows us to combat energy poverty for vulnerable consumers and is also helping to alleviate the rise in energy prices in wholesale markets. We estimate that households that will benefit from this thermal social bonus will reach 1.2 million compatriots. Ladies and gentlemen, our National Health System is the great reason for collective pride and now it is time to strengthen it with more resources and measures to improve its quality and efficiency. We have talked and will continue to talk, I understand that a lot, about how we have to prevent and deal with the public health crises that accompany our world, but we also want to talk in these budgets about how we have to deal with other health problems. The health policy rises by 11%, without including the entire supply for the purchase of vaccines. More than 6.6 billion are going to be spent on strengthening the capacity of the health system, especially the boost of primary care, oral health or the renewal of health technology. And on this point let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that with the National Health System it is not just about providing services, it is about guaranteeing the rights of citizenship, guarantees in the times of care not to aggravate the pathologies that people suffer, to increase our portfolio of services in areas that need a new boost. We are talking about mental health, palliative care, primary care, ultimately all those areas that we can see in our day to day that we need to increase the supply of techniques and procedures that we give to all citizens. It is also a question of giving greater recognition and resilience to primary care, providing it with greater resources, allowing for the modernization momentum. Primary care is the key to the National Health System and we therefore need to recognize and strengthen it. [[Applauds]] It is about our hospitals incorporating the latest technologies into public centres to keep them at the forefront and to continue to contribute to the drive for research and the drive for knowledge-building in health. It is, in short, that it remains the great jewel, the great treasure that the Spanish democratic society has been building over the last few years, revitalizing, strengthening itself and being, as always, the pride that, when the disease arrives, the income is not a problem, the technology is accessible if the health problem has a cure and, in short, at least, in the health of everyone, we have equal opportunities. [[Applauds]] I said at the beginning of my speech that youth is a collective that we wanted to prioritize in the accounts. From the Government we want young people to know that politics, usually so alien to them, is concerned about their well-being, we listen to them and what we propose solutions to their problems. That is why I find it particularly unfortunate that anyone who sees behind these numbers only electoral interests, when what we are looking for is to improve, of course, the lives of our children. You will see, that the bonus is labeled as a limo to facilitate access to housing for young wage earners with low wages, a novel programme with 200 million, or that it is mocked by a measure that seeks to bring young people closer to culture and help this sector, which has gone through frankly badly during the pandemic, recovers, or that in some way it is thought that these budgets do not want to contribute or will not contribute to the fact that those who have suffered most during the crisis can recover speak very loudly and very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, of the courtesy of the eyes of the right and also of the spirit of not making progress that is being expressed by the People's Party in each of its interventions. [[Applauds]] I would ask your ladies and gentlemen to show a little empathy with the people who listen to us or with those who receive our news and to have the opportunity to analyse in depth the proposals that these budgets contemplate for all young people, which amount to 12,550 million. I see it absolutely legitimate not to share any proposals, but it is very difficult for me to assimilate that they do not see the urgency of cushioning the damage that this generation is suffering, which is already experiencing its second crisis. This is something that we will have to monitor very closely in the coming years, and, of course, this government in each of the numbers is looking at that future. For example, the accounts allow for the first time the heading we allocate to Education - right, minister? - to exceed 5 billion, i.e. a major effort in the national budget, which increases the educational heading by 10.6%. [[Applauds]] I want to highlight three performances. Firstly, 2199 million for scholarships, which means an increase of more than EUR 100 million over the previous year so that no one, absolutely no one will be left without the opportunity to develop their capacity and talent for economic reasons; we need them all. It is 47% more than the scholarship game that was destined, for example, in 2017, the last year of the People's Party government. Secondly, the boost to vocational training, indeed the great stake of this legislature, which reaches an investment in these accounts of more than EUR 2075 million. In addition, we want this vocational training to be an attractive offer, an option that will really enable its students to be effectively integrated into the labour market. We need to renew the qualifications and we need to increase the offer of places. There are still people who, because they do not get the square, do not study that specialty for which they feel vocation. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, 333 million for the extension of children's education from zero to three years, with more than 65 000 new public places. Mr married, who has now reached zero education at three years, I would like to say that this budget has 65 000 new places. [[Applauds]] And in the field of university education, the national budget, minister, is growing by 9.7%, highlighting 120 million to increase the quality of the university system, to link it to the economy and to employment and to promote the stability, which is very important, of teachers and researchers. Housing is another problem that affects, above all, people with less resources and young people and also those living in so-called tense areas, where it is really difficult to find a home at an affordable price. That is why the budget provides for a historic budget of about 3300 million to facilitate access to and promotion of construction, which means 46% more than the amount we had for the current year. It comes from the hand of European funds, which will allow us to allocate 500 million to the construction of housing for social rent, in buildings besides being energy sustainable, and 355 million to subsidies of housing plans for vulnerable groups, 1389 million to the rehabilitation of residential environments and another 600 for public buildings. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one element that is reflected in this budget, it is the one that deals with the youth unemployment rate, because there are figures that for this government are definitely unacceptable. The accounts therefore incorporate 2144 million for actions promoting youth employment, which represents 44% more resources for the integration of young people into the labour market than currently envisaged. [[Applauds]] To this end, we will promote training in alternation with employment in public schools-workshops, in the development of first professional experiences in administrations or in the coverage of the recruitment of young researchers, so that talent does not have to leave Spain to seek opportunities that this country does not offer them. These actions form part of the employment promotion policy, which is growing by 10%, not counting the European funds, reaching 7648 million. Many of them are used to improve the recruitment of more difficult groups, 18 billion, as well as to boost vocational guidance, to ensure that training is constant throughout life, with 549 million, and to support the integration of women into the labour market, because we almost allocate twice as much resources as in 2021 to support this insertion, as well as 107 million for comprehensive plans in the Canary Islands, Andalusia or Extremadura. On the other hand, budgets are designed as a lever for the transformation and growth of economic activity, and the multiple measures I will summarise in just a few appropriations. There are about 13.3 billion for research, development, innovation and digitisation, which means, ladies and gentlemen, 7.7% more than the previous year. But I want to tell you that, together, the 2020 budget and this year's budget have doubled investment in R & D+i. In just two budget years we have multiplied the resources allocated to the research field by two times, with an increase of 88.5%. It is, therefore, the most ambitious budget in our country's history to make science and innovation the engine of economic growth, prosperity and well-being. We want and will offer better job opportunities to researchers, we will work on increasing scientific infrastructures and we will promote the culture of innovation in the whole of the productive fabric. The share of trade, tourism and SMEs is also growing, with an increase of 32.1%, or 3 billion, to help modernise the productive fabric. In reindustrialisation and energy policies, 11 316 million, because, as we have said, it is absolutely priority for the industrial sector to speed up the processes of digitisation and automation, and it is also necessary - it is topical in the last few days - that we adapt the value chains and also our logistics. To this end, we provide 707 million of these tasks and we also continue to offer attraction to investors who can come from elsewhere, at the international level, with security, training and incentives. Energy policy, key in this period of just transition, will have 3817 million to accompany the whole productive fabric as well as families and households. There will only be an energy transition under conditions if we are able to make it fair and, therefore, for the States to accompany it. To this end, all the items under this heading are experiencing growth, which is directed to the social thermal bonus, to support the electric vehicle, to the development of renewable energies or to make our country a benchmark in hydrogen. Policies to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of the agricultural and fisheries sector amount to EUR 8844 million. The sector as a whole is rising by 5.2%. What do we intend to do? Basically, a balanced growth that will improve the position of producers in the food chain, in what Minister Planas has been working on since the beginning of the legislature, because rural Spain is an absolute priority for this government. Culture rose by 38% to 1589 million, being the largest investment in history in this area. We want cultural companies, artists to see in these accounts an opportunity to definitely put the crisis behind them, a crisis that has hit them hard. We want to promote reading, strengthen museums, recover cultural heritage and promote equality and inclusion in sport, ultimately that the recovery also reaches these sectors, which both contribute to us on a personal or collective level, and turn them into the engine of recovery. 11 841 million have been allocated for infrastructure and ecosystems, and I will only give some particularly significant brushstroke: for railway infrastructure, 5400 million, which, above all, are aimed at improving the conventional network of proximity, through which thousands and thousands of citizens pass every day, as well as to complete the high-speed network and enhance the transport of goods through the railway corridors, and I would like to highlight the one that covers the line Algeciras-Bobadilla, which is fundamental for the connectivity of the port of Algeciras with the rest of the country. In addition, 1152 million are allocated for the improvement of the road network, which is essential for road safety; 869 million for the air sector, which is heavily affected by the crisis; 785 million for investments in water, or 233 million for biodiversity, environmental regeneration and our coasts. Speaking of this biodiversity, as I said at the beginning, the demographic challenge is one of the major priorities of the accounts, and we make an allocation of more than 4.2 billion, highlighting games of connectivity, tourism sustainability or livestock. Ladies and gentlemen, if we add to all this the commitment by the territorial administrations, where we again transfer additional resources to the autonomous communities, 7 billion, and also to the local authorities, with the increase in resources relating to the IEPs, and, ultimately, in all the funding that reaches each of these administrations, you will see that for this government it is a priority that we all walk together and that the territorial administrations also have sufficient resources to continue the development of the provision of public services and economic impetus. It's over. Other items which I have briefly left out are those relating to security, with a growth of 7.9 million; the protection of rights guarantees, 7400 million; public employees, which increase their salaries by 2% and we improve the replacement rate; 400 million additional for development cooperation, which includes important items of vaccines that are made available to other countries, or 4 % increase in order to fulfil the commitment to democratic memory. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. I have tried throughout this intervention to derail the priorities and objectives that the accounts contemplate with data, with arguments and with reflections. These are extraordinary budgets for the moment and for what they represent. It is the budgets of farewell to a crisis and the beginning of a new cycle that must be promoted, because, ladies and gentlemen, after this pandemic we are no longer the same, neither are we in our personal capacity nor are we as a society, and we must anticipate and accompany these new needs and expectations. That is why the budgets are truly historic, because they incorporate a unique opportunity, that of European funds, to drive a transformation that is essential. They are good goals for society as a whole. Everyone, absolutely all people can be reflected to some extent or at some point. I therefore appeal to your commitment as representatives of the Spanish people, because all political formations, without exception, here we are responsible for the future of our fellow citizens; those which we constitute the Government in the first place, since we are responsible for the action of the political impulse, but the rest of the groups also have their share of responsibility for the proper functioning of the democratic system and for the governance of the country itself. I ask you to bear in mind what citizens expect from politics and politicians, what they expect from all of us: nothing but to provide solutions to their daily problems, to those of the day to day and, if possible, to prepare them for a better future. That is what these budgets are for, so that we can respond to the great challenges we face as a country, in which I believe we have a broad consensus. As the philosopher and professor of Ethics Adela Cortina said, we cannot predict what will happen tomorrow, but we can decide how we want it to be that morning. That's what we're all here to decide how we want it to be that morning, and for that the budgets are a tool that can make it possible. They'll find us there. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common and of the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 3 p.m. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We move on to the debate on the amendments to the General State Budgets Bill for the year 2022. Seven amendments have been tabled to the full refund of the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022. In defence of the amendments tabled by your groups, Mr Casado Blanco has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u9	Thank you, Madam President. You are the President of the Government who has passed the most royal decrees in democracy and who has more often refused to appear at the request of the opposition, so you should have the decency to go up here and defend this budget. [[Applauds]] This was said by Pedro Sánchez in 2015. Today he has had neither the decency to defend the budget nor to come here to see how the opposition views him. But I understand it, I understand that you do not want to defend it, because it is a budget that is born dead, it is a budget that is your swan song, your last budget, that no one believes, that you no longer believe even the Minister of Finance, who has said that the economic forecasts are not carved in stone. This budget is characterised by five fundamental features. The first, which I think should make you reflect, is hypocrisy. It is a budget from which we have had to listen in his defense how there will be a new way out of the economic crisis other than that of 2008, because that austere was lethal for the Spaniards. Can you answer me who ruled in Spain in 2008? The Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] Can you tell me who cut the salary to the officials by 5%? The Socialist Party. Can you tell me who froze the pensions? The Socialist Party. Can you tell me who cut the welfare state by EUR 45 billion? The Socialist Party of Rodríguez Zapatero, with Pedro Sánchez as deputy voting one after another the measures in 2010 and 2011. [[Applauds]] Don't you, Minister? Therefore, a great hypocrisy. Austericide was his, we paid his debts; we paid 100 billion euros of the debts that were in the drawers; we had to pay a tariff deficit of 27 billion euros, a health debt of 14 billion euros, a debt in infrastructure of 17 billion euros; we even had to pay autonomy in the FLA 40 billion euros. Don't have the defiance to come up with that hypocrisy. But the budget they have tabled is also insensitive, because they have come triumphantly to say that this is phenomenal. Can you tell, Minister and the absent Mr Sánchez, to the 4 million Spanish unemployed, to the million families who have gone to the Food Bank to eat today, that this is going very well? Can you tell the young people, 35% of whom are unemployed - 7 points more than when the Socialist Party arrived - that this is going to go very well because you are going to give the 400 euros to the 18-year-olds, just - what a coincidence! - to those who are going to vote in the next general election? It's an extremely insensitive budget. But there is more: it is a false budget. The Bank of Spain has said this, the AIRef has said it, the IMF has said it, the College of Economists has said it yesterday, everyone has said it. No one believes the macroeconomic forecasts of the budget, you have to return it to the corral, it's that you can't even deal with it. Where do I start, Minister? It is good that macroeconomic forecasts cannot be carved into stone, but they have not been correct, all are falsehoods. You have tried to create the house of the budget by the roof of the expenditure and, once you have the expenditure, so that you will have all that you have to announce and continue to govern with the most radical partners, you try to square-mind - the revenues, that will not square or square in the previous year, and the economic growth, that no one is believed, absolutely no one, nor their partners. But these budgets have other features as well. In addition to being false, Minister - and you have to remember it very well - what these budgets are doing is going against what all European partners are doing. This falsehood is linked to radicalism, because the budgets have agreed with Bildu, in exchange, according to Otegi, to release 200 elderly prisoners in the future, and they have agreed with Esquerra Republicana, in exchange for the pardons they gave against Mr Sánchez's electoral promises. And they are radical, because they have agreed with the Communist Party, with the only Communist Party in a European government, with Podemos, that what has made put up labor legislation in a sanatorium during this week that has embarrassed Spain and the rest of European partners, a labor reform that you have used for a million ERTE - of which you today presume - and that you have used the Spaniards to find three million jobs. [[Applauds]] But the budgets are also radical because you have made legislative changes, for example, in the housing law, charging for individual freedom, charging for the free market economy and charging for private property. Won't it be better, Minister, to give EUR 3 billion to young people and Spanish families so that they can pay rent for their homes better than EUR 200 million- you make the count of how much less it is - above not linking it to emancipation, simply to charge the real estate market because it is asked by your partners? Not to mention energy reform. Does it make sense, at the peak of demand, for you to capture the supply by putting problems to those who invest, problems to those who produce energy, problems to those who have to supply? And, lastly, the pensions; we learned today: it turns out that you have charged yourself with the generational sustainability factor approved by the People's Party, the revaluation rate, yes, the one that was small, but that we always expected because pensions were increased by 16% on average when we ruled and did not freeze them like you, and it turns out that the minister arrives today and says: hey!, we're going to have to raise social security contributions a point for baby boomers to have a pension. [[a lady MP: Come on now!-Rumors.-Applause]] Is this a receipt, Minister? And the fifth feature of the budgets is that they are ruinous, because they do exactly the opposite of what all European countries do. What do responsible European countries do - Italy, France, the most similar in GDP and population - They lower spending and lower taxes, it is normal, as any autonomous, as any family; when they are giving him as much money from outside what they have to do is adjust the belt. What are you guys doing? On the contrary, they completely increase the waste of public spending and completely increase taxes. How could you lie this morning saying it squares nominal growth? I will explain it to you, Minister: the nominal growth of 10% is square because there is 5% economic growth - not 9.8, as you said - and there is 5% inflation. Therefore, you collect more because the Spaniards are more impoverished with taxes and inflation, as always with the Socialist Party. [[Applauds]] First thought we're doing. How's the global context? Because you're out of your league. The global context has post-pandemic recovery problems. Yes, asymmetrical, because the virus reached all alike, but with Portugal beautiful four Spanish autonomies, with France beautiful territorially and there were fewer deaths, less contagion, less fall in GDP and deficit and debt rose less. Or, for example, Italy, where the virus started, in Lombardy, however, has half the inflation and its gross domestic product has fallen less and is now, for the first time in ten years, recovering much better than Spanish. So, in that recovery from the pandemic, what happened in Spain? Why are we the worst in the recovery of the developed world? Because there is a bad government that doesn't do what it has to do, like other countries. Second reflection of the context. Indeed, the supply chain, you say, as if it had been a biblical curse. How many months have I been talking here about the offer shock that Spain had and that you treat as a demand crisis? You have reaped the demand when there is an offer shock, and what is happening right now is that if you do not reduce deficit and public debt, we are completely exposed to a variation in interest rates or a tapering, of a reduction in public debt purchases. Therefore, a shock of supply on bottlenecks in supplies, in components, and in addition with that gafe you have that you have chosen above for reconstruction funds two huge programs, of 7 billion euros for the rehabilitation of energy efficiency of buildings in the midst of the raw material crisis and of 12 billion euros for electric car in the midst of the semiconductor crisis. Even for that you have bad luck. Third reflection of the international context: inflation. Yes, inflation is global, but it accuses Spain more; I have already said that double, for example, that Italy. What's the Federal Reserve saying, your vice president? That this is going to have to go to a reduction in purchases. What did the European Central Bank say? He recalled that in March the extraordinary programme of the pandemic ended, which I remind him represents 80% of the purchases made in Spain. If last year all the net issuance of Spanish public debt - EUR 120 billion - was purchased by the European Central Bank, let us make an extrapolation. Let's say that 80% does not fall by accident, let's say they leave half of us from March; it will be EUR 20 billion of the normal programme, plus EUR 60 billion of the extraordinary programme. How long do we stay, Minister? In 50 billion euros you have to try to finance in the markets, in addition to the billion euros that the investment funds already have, these that you also say to leave here, from Spain. We therefore have a very serious inflation problem. And the last problem at the international level is energy. Yes, it is also international, but there is a problem and it is that countries have done their duties and you have not. You have been incapable, twenty-five years after knowing that there was a problem with a pipeline in Morocco and having two years to renegotiate, of having a logical relationship with Morocco and Algeria to ensure supply. The Minister of Energy and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are now coming to say that they are going to fill that 20% lack of gas supply with methane vessels. But do you know what a metanerous ship is worth, of those who also paint their government partners? It's worth a lot more. And, above all, you're competing with China, that when you sail the metanero ship you can take it if you pay more. [[Applauds]] We therefore have a gas supply problem because of the incompetence of this government, because of incompetence and sectarianism, the ideological closure. Because, of course, Mr Emmanuel Macron - very radical, as you all know - says that nuclear production must be extended in France for thirty years. Here the National Nuclear Security Council tells you to extend it twenty years in the Spanish power stations, which are approved, by the way, to the power stations active in the United States, but you do not like nuclear power, and coal, either, despite the fact that Germany has reactivated sixteen power stations. And the combined cycle, not even though China has opened fifty this year. They do not like hydroelectric power now either, because, of course, it must be a very anti-ecological thing, nor the wind, and we go from Podemos to Galicia to manifest because it damages the landscape. You just want the sun terrace. It seems very good to me; the thermosolar sank us into misery because of Zapatero, and as for photovoltaics, you will know - there is not the Minister of Energy here - that right now you have to have a reinforcement technology. What is the technology to strengthen photovoltaics in Spain, Minister? Why is the light fired 200 percent and you say nothing? Why did Mr Sánchez, when the 8 % light was coming up with our government, say that he was resigning the president of the government and now that he is going up 200 % he does not even come here, to Congress, to listen to what the middle and working classes are paying out of the light, which is unbearable? [[applause]] Therefore, dead budgets and an international scenario that you don't even know about. Let's go to the macroeconomic picture. This is fun, Minister. We go with the eight variables of a macroeconomic picture in Spain. Firstly, GDP. You signed 9.8 % in the last budget. Of course, we laughed and we were told: anti-patriots! At three months, it was corrected to 6,5 %. Now there is not a single independent study institute that gives you more than 5%, and I signed it now. I'm afraid we won't make it. Do you think it is normal for Spain to be at -8% of GDP trend, the worst figure in Europe? Let's make the check. We've fallen by 11%; we're going to get back, in your opinion, by 6%; in everyone's opinion, by 5%. That's a -6. Tendentially we had to have risen, under normal conditions, by 2%; then we are at -8%. Do you know how much the European average is? Three times less! At 2.5%! And you come here and say that we have to applaud for what you have done. Second variable: debt. We're at 125%. Relatively, our industrial capacity is one of the largest in the European Union. This debt has EUR 420 billion in the hands of the European Central Bank. You make the check. Since Pedro Sánchez has come to the government each Spanish owes 5300 euros more, which they will pay - as Calviño would say - their children and grandchildren until 2058. Does it seem normal to presume, when we are exposed to assisted breathing and let us not say when interest rates rise or stop buying the European Central Bank, which is already at the statutory limit of 30% of GDP, of the debt it can have from each country? Do you think we're in good hands? Third parameter: deficit. You say that we are going to cut the deficit a lot, to 5%, and it seems phenomenal to you. The highest in the European Union. But the problem is the structural deficit, the primary one: 5.2%. According to the Banco de España, this brings us to 60 billion euros of adjustments in the next ten years. The People's Party will already do that. Of course, as always! You will say in ten years' time that the People's Party created that deficit, because that's what they always do: to eat the election machine and it'll be paid by whoever comes after it. That deficit is a terrible thing because it amounts to the last three years of EUR 330 billion, including what you bring in the budget for the year 2022. Do you imagine a family that is in debt and that has a deficit so much higher than income? Spain can't afford it either. Let's go to unemployment. You've come here to brag that we have a very good EPA. Why are they cheating on us? Why are you cheating on the loner? The EPA does not include the 200 000 Spaniards in ERTE, the EPA does not include the 100 000 self-employed in the cessation of activity and the EPA does include the 330,000 civil servants you have created. Therefore, acknowledge that there are half a million less Spaniards who have been working since you came to the government. At least don't presume. [[Rumors.-The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes gestures]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, the ERTE's are'very happy' at home waiting to see if they readmit them and the unemployed, who no longer seek employment...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u11	...because they're autonomous, too. The problem you have is that, in addition to lying to the 3.5 million unemployed created by Mr Zapatero and the Socialist Party, you are now trying to hide that we have 4 million unemployed in Spain. And I will tell you more: there is a problem here, there are 35% of young people who are unemployed, but there are one in four unemployed in Spain who no longer receives any kind of benefit. And this leads us to a drama, which is inequality, because in Spain there is more inequality. The Arope rate is 25%. According to Caritas, there are 6 million families at risk of severe poverty. I already told you about the queues at the Food Bank. Does it seem to you normal that with this inequality - which is obviously created by unemployment - you can boast? Let's go to another parameter: public spending. You have increased public spending by EUR 439 billion in this budget, twice as much as the People's Party, despite what I have already told you that we have paid all your debts and raised social spending by EUR 26,000 million. Do you think it is normal that with this expansion of public spending you ask to adjust your belt to the Spanish, when you have raised 100 million euros the high offices, when you have twenty-three ministers, when you have a thousand advisors in the Moncloa and when you have raised public spending by 25%? Tell me one thing, minister, do the Spaniards have 25% more money, as the government does? Isn't that right? That's the problem. We're moving on with the parameters. In addition to public spending, we have the problem of inflation. I have already told you, a 5.5, but we are going to decline in the day to day: 30% more in fuels; 40% - at least - in the bill for light; we have 7% more in chicken or rabbit; we have 20% more in tomato; we have 20% more in bread. Do you think this is sustainable? Do you think that this inflation - which was already said by a British stateswoman who is the thief of the savings of the middle classes and the mother of unemployment - is a good thing because she collects more? And the last point: taxes. You raised taxes on the budget last year by EUR 9 billion, only that, as you acknowledged today, some item - which we already told you you were not going to collect - did not raise 10%, like the Google rate, or 20%, like the Tobin rate. In this budget it brings 4 billion euros more taxes, and it still says that there is a margin of consolidation with the European tax of another 80 billion euros. Get your hands on the wallet, ladies and gentlemen. So, you see that tax pressure normal? And, yes, can you explain to me who it has had an impact on? I am going to tell you: EUR 13 billion has been paid by the families via IRPF, EUR 700 million has only come for company tax. Therefore, as always, what the left does is to give sandblasts to the middle and working classes, contrary to what Pedro Sánchez promised in the campaign. [[Applauds]] Well, given what comes in budgets, what there is for the world and what there is in Spain, did you have an alternative to present this budget bodrio? Yeah. In 2018 I met with Pedro Sánchez, before the budgets, and I told him two conditions to negotiate them: that he would not raise taxes and that he would not repeal structural reforms. They didn't, by the way. Next budgets, two conditions of the People's Party: not to appoint Dolores Delgado General Prosecutor of the State, political police station, and not to recover the independence party table in Catalonia. No way. And in the last budgets - remember, I was in Moncloa and you answered me later, as always, with so much affection and impartiality since the Council of Ministers when I was a spokesman - I offered to make a national plan of reforms, even if they were burdensome, and to comply with the specific recommendations of the European Semester, which were those of the year 2019: fiscal consolidation, debt reduction, deficit reduction, educational disparities, market unity, pension system. The opposition said: well, we can share that electoral cost; in return, we only ask an independent agency to manage European funds. The answer was you insulting me from the Moncloa rostrum, as always. [[Applauds]] Well, the alternative they had. I'll remind you of what that alternative envisaged. From the European Union memorandum, in Article 18, there were six strategic plans for Europe. The first was competitiveness, and what we proposed was to lower taxes at the expense of European funds, as Macron did. The second was resilience, and we propose to pay for the Austrian backpack at the cost of European funds, labour flexibility, job creation, as Poland has done. The third was the youth guarantee, and we propose a young housing plan with public endorsements, as Draghi has done in Italy. The fourth was cohesion, and we proposed total free education from 0 to 3 years to generate birth - total, not 300 million euros, minister -. The fifth was sustainability, and we proposed to make a water plan for Spain, which was essential for the tourism sector, for the primary sector, and which is lacking in our country. And the sixth was digitization, and what we proposed was that there should be a rationalization of the public sector by doing what was done in the 1990s with the Tax Agency, in SEPE, in the General Administration of the State or even in telemedicine or e-learning, which is missing, as has been seen in the pandemic. The answer was, of course, no. You're not gonna be able to keep these two faces. Sánchez says in Brussels that he is making reforms and here he says he is making reforms, the problem is that in Brussels he says that he is going to do them in one direction and here in another. For example, Sánchez's entire reformist program has been six counter-reforms to the People's Party. Educational counter-reform; in Brussels he says that he will do so to increase competitiveness and here what he does is mathematics with gender perspectives and that students pass on suspended subjects. Secondly, labour reform; I have already said, it says that it will increase flexibility, here it puts an axe to everything that has created employment and that you have used even for three years, it could have done nothing more to get there. Thirdly, the counter-reform of market unity; in fact, with the housing law, which has said that autonomy is already in place, which makes it equally urgent for young people, as we agree. The fourth, energy counter-reform; they not only blame us for paying their debt of 27 billion euros of tariff deficit for Zapatero's renewables premium, but above all they charge all the security and companies are going to invest outside. The fifth, pension reform; not only is our sustainability factor and revaluation index charged, but it also claims that it is the social security contributors who pay the duck for their harmful negotiation to make them sustainable. And the last, the tax reform, which we have not only had to bear all its costs when we govern, but now wants to put an axe on the middle classes and workers. So there was an alternative and you didn't want to use it. But let us go to what has to be the European vector, because it is true that in Europe they want to help us. But I ask you one thing, Minister, why do you budget EUR 27 billion of European funds, 1000 more than last year, if it can only be received by Spain 18,000, at most, in 2022, according to the agreement signed with the European Commission? Can you explain it to me? And I will ask you another question, Mr. absent President of the Government, why do you not publish the agreement of the Government of Spain with the European Commission to know the conditionality of receiving funds? I will tell you something: if they do not make it public this week, we will go to the European Parliament and the European Commission to demand that it be published and make it public for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] It's good to lie, man! There's one thing and here's another. But let's do a comparative accounting exercise. If it turns out that you have implemented of the EUR 14 billion of European funds that have arrived since summer 4.72%, according to the AIReF; if you have implemented 40% of the cohesion funds in recent years; if you have only implemented 40% of your own unconditional plan for self-employed people; if you have only used 10% of your own unconditioned SEPI programme for bankrupt companies, and if you have only used 20% of the aid for own unconditioned SMEs, why do you expect us to believe that you are going to implement 100% of the European funds? That is to say, you have not fulfilled it in the last budget and you have not fulfilled it in the other aid programmes that you have created and no one has asked you - it is true that with REACT funds and with ECB funds, but it is your funds, without anyone having to read them the book - and you want us to believe that with an execution of everything else of 20% you are going to execute 27,000 million euros from the European accounts? No one believes that, Minister, they do not believe that in Brussels or in Madrid. [[Applauds]] So, a little serious. What is being asked of the European Union is that there be reforms and that we be a solvent country, not that, once again, we have to go to aid and that is a problem for all European partners. I shall now turn to the last point of my speech. If all this is happening, is there an alternative? Yeah, there's an alternative, and besides, I'm telling you we offered it to her, we've been telling her for three years. There's an alternative to doing things right. There is an alternative to the party which, once again, will have to rescue Spain from the crisis left by a socialist government and we have explained it in three blocks of reforms that have already been seen in the partial amendments to the general state budget. A block of institutional strengthening, and there it has already been set up for an independent justice, for equal pay; it has also been seen to give more means to the judges, prosecutors, Forces and State Security Corps destined for Catalonia, who are harassed by their independent partners; it has also been seen to be done with prison officials, who are harassed by their Batasun partners, or it has also been seen, for example, in a reinforcement of what we have come to call that country that has to be vertebrated territorially and not dispersed in what I am well able to give from the budget to autonomy. Equality of all self-governments. The second point was a commitment by families, for well-being, and we have incorporated amendments on education to make it more competitive, so that the Dual FP will continue, for the reconciliation of 0 to 3 years, for technological subjects, for bilingualism, for educational MIR or for public knowledge assessments. We have also raised this in the case of maternity, financing in vitro fertilization to families who want to be parents and who have difficulty doing so. We have seen it with the housing law, but a housing law that is not going to end by gnawing the demand for the supply, because that increases prices, but by giving young people who want to emancipate themselves and families who want to have more children and need more space the possibility that there is more soil available with a new ground law. Or, for example, we have also asked you that for health the system is more vertebrate, that there is a service - which did not exist during the pandemic - of centralized purchases, of basic services equal to all Spaniards, of greater research than 2% of GDP. Or we have also asked you, for example, in the matter of dependency, that the 200,000 dependents in Spain waiting to be evaluated - because before them 55,000 died during the pandemic without you answering them - have better access to aid. And the third point was an employment plan. We were very clear here what needs to be done to create employment, which is not a matter that has occurred only to the People's Party, it does to Italy, it does to France and it is done by countries with responsible governments and not with radical and incompetent governments. For example, a tax revolution plan. We have proposed that in these budgets taxes should be lowered EUR 10 billion, EUR 27 billion by abolishing taxes on donations and inheritances; EUR 12 billion by abolishing the property tax; EUR 600 million less by abolishing the tax on capital transfers; by reducing social contributions by EUR 14 billion - look at the contrary of what you do - and by halving the company tax for companies located in unpopulated Spain, in municipalities with less than 5000 inhabitants. And we want a tax for the Silver Economy, because I think it's a sector in which Spain can compete. Northern Europeans want to come here to retire and need more hospitals, more residences and more universities to make a Spanish center in our country. We have also proposed that we be a digital centre, that we be a Silicon Valley. This is something we have been saying for a long time, that we must make a fast track of talent capture, that we must make a new Beckham Law more ambitious to compete with Portugal, in Copenhagen, with Berlin, with Italy. Well, that's a tax block. The second block was labour flexibility, of course maintaining labour reform and the Austrian backpack, which I know is expensive, is EUR 8 billion, but European funds can pay for it. But we also want the self-employed to have a flat rate like the one you have cost, and we want the SMEs to have a second chance law when you let them go; 100,000 have closed in this pandemic that, as you say, has been so well managed. We have a third point of less bureaucracy. Less bureaucracy is that the laws are compiled, that there is an administrative highway so that a company can be set up in just five days, that the government is halved and that public companies are not mismanaged. It is a position like that defended by Escrivá, being president of the AIReF, that can reduce public spending 32 billion euros without touching social games. This has recently been said by the CEO, the Institute for Economic Studies, which can be up to EUR 61 billion, which can be cut by superfluous spending, as you are only increasing. And we also have a very important element of competitiveness and legal certainty, yes, for energy. We are proposing an energy reform that reduces the receipt of €9 billion, 20% less invoice. It's possible. [[Applauds]] How? How?, will say Mrs Montero, Mrs Rivera and Mrs Calviño, who is absent, it can be seen that she does not want to coincide with Mrs Yolanda Díaz. Well, it turns out that this is very easy: one, all CO2 emission allowances are put down by lowering the bill into a fund for the recovery of energy poverty in Spain. Two, the electricity tax is abolished and, in addition, VAT is reduced to the super-reduced VAT already accepted by the European Union. And three, the non-energy costs are removed from the bill, and so what we will get is that there is a cheaper energy, because this from the impossible sorting of energy is something Ribera has to point to. Green, abundant and cheap energy can never be the three things. If it is green and abundant it cannot be cheap, if it is cheap and green it cannot be abundant. I mean, you guys have to choose. If you have a system in which everything is bad and what you are going to do is like Mrs Belarus, who says that the best energy is not consumed, because we are going to the cave. It is an ideological sectarianism like what you do with the motor sector, the industrial sector, which before did not like diesel, now does not like gasoline, now does not like hybrid either, because what you do not want is for the Spaniards to be free to move as they please, even if they do not have Falcon and even if they do not have Super Puma, and that is what bothers them. [[Applauds]] And we also have the tourism sector. We have proposed the reduction of airport charges, the abolition of eco-taxes, the reduction of VAT to the super-reduced, because it is 30% of the associated GDP, Minister, 13% direct, but if you add up gastronomy, hospitality, mobility, retail trade and culture and leisure is 30% of the GDP, and it is very difficult to link it to digital recovery and sustainability funds. A closed hotel cannot change the oven or change the windows and let it come out on its own. You have to help this sector and you have to help the primary sector, no matter how much you accuse it of being a slave, no matter how much the absent Minister of Consumer Affairs says that cows pollute much more than their planes, no matter how much they say we have to put an end to temporality. With regard to the temporality, in the area of harvest and wine, Minister, it is a little rare that workers can then do something. You tell us how agriculture works to those who believe that artichokes arise from the supermarket line. Therefore, they are sectors that must be supported and you have demonised everything, because ideologically you only want sectors dependent on the BOE and dependent on its funds, which are customers. But I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u12	Mr. Married, you have to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u13	Yes, Madam President. Thank you very much. I'm finishing up. I say to you that with this plan that they want to do with the European funds, we do not get out of the crisis, because the PlanE was EUR 13 billion, 100 000 jobs were created and only 4% remained. We must therefore make structural reforms, not squander all the European funds simply in a Peronist Keynesianism to give everyone what you believe will buy their vote. It's just that it's very simple. [[Applauds]] So, Mr President of the Government absent Minister of Finance, these budgets are to be returned, they are wet paper, they are dead, they are born dead, they are a hairdo, they are the third parties on which you are going to commit your word for nothing, because they are going to be out of date; they are already out of date. In time they are to withdraw them and, if not, once again the People's Party will have to come to fix the ruin that for the third time in history has left a socialist government. [[Applauds]] We will do so by strengthening and pushing Spain, which is a country that is worth it despite a government as bad as its own. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u14	Thank you, Mr. Casado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Casado, I have listened carefully to your speech and the first conclusion I want to share with all of you is that, Mr Casado, you have not read the budget. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Beyond the praises that you can make from your bench - you will know why -, I want to tell you that today you have represented - let me tell you - a caricature of yourself. [[Applauds]] You have used false data. You are very noticed that it bothers you very much that Spain goes well, I don't understand why. [[laughs]] You seem not to ally yourself with the general interest, but you are in your things, Mr. Married, in your things. I could have chosen - I had the opportunity - to have a critical speech with this government, of course, you are the leader of the opposition, but a speech that was constructive, that would bring to the country... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u17	... as I humbly believe it belongs to the leader of the opposition of a party that, at least in theory, aspires to rule at some point or in the future. But you did not; you have preferred to gloat in ruin and chaos. You will be persecuted for that cover, Mr. Married, your entire political life. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Let Spain fall - it is nothing original, moreover - let Spain fall that we will already raise it. This is what he has said throughout his speech. It is the only thing that you have put on the table at a time like the one that is going through Spanish society; at a time when we all have the obligation - and more the public representatives - to hold our shoulders for the construction of the country, to be able to move security, stability, dialogue and consensus. You've come up with a speech that I don't think you've surprised anyone in the room, because it's the same one you've been holding lately. By the way, Mr. Married, the same one that you have held with Mr. Sánchez the twelve times that Mr. Sánchez, except in the control sessions, has attended this Congress; twelve times. [[Rumors]] It's just that you were saying that Mr. Sánchez, a little less than he doesn't want to explain in this Congress. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u18	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u19	Do you know how many times Mr. Rajoy showed up, Mr. Married? Four times; three times more President Sanchez. [[Applauds]] But, you've subscribed to that strategy of all black, all ruin and all chaos. You see, you predicted that the vaccination campaign was going to be a disaster - they are your words - that we were going to be late - remember, Mr. Married? - four years in having the population vaccinated. That's what Mr. Married said. It turns out that today we are an example at the international level, and it weighs on it. [[Applauds]] You set Mr Sarkozy an example and said you wanted to be inspired by the management of this French politician. In less than 24 hours he was convicted of corruption. [[Applauds]] You said you wanted to attract low-tax employers and it turns out that you are going against what the right, belonging to that group, is raising in the OECD or is raising at the G20 summit. I was telling you this morning, Mr Casado, that you seem to be the rare opinion of democracy and the international right. He is the only one who does not agree to implement 15% of corporate tax. I tell you, you don't have to be, as you say, Social Democrats or Communists or Venezuelans or traitors. It is simply necessary to have common sense, which is what your colleagues in other countries are demonstrating. You have assured that the Recovery Plan will be a failure because it is inspired by future projects, technologies. You have even come to say that Spain is the guinea pig. [[Mr. Casado Blanco: It was]] Oh, that was it! Well, it was, will be or it is. That with the European funds little less that they were experimenting with us and that, moreover, the European funds were in danger - you said - if the system of election of the General Council of the Judiciary is not changed. Look at you, Mr. Married, the hemeroteca doesn't forgive and there are all your statements. Do you know what happened? Very simple, you are not happy, but for this country it is good. What has happened is that the European Commission approved Spain's plan with an outstanding one and we are doing it badly to weigh it down. [[Applauds]] You said you wanted to repeal the Historical Memory Law because, in your opinion, looking for the common pits of Francoism, where thousands of compatriots lie, is to dig up grudges. You haven't heard yourself here in the rostrum. You have said that you want to re-centralize the autonomous state; that is, you challenge the vertebrateness of our Constitution. He said that he wants to liberalise the economy to the fullest; now, in this pandemic, we have learned the value of the public all citizens, all citizens except, of course, Mr Casado. He said he wants to release the public floor. What a fear it gives me, Mr. Married, that you say you want to free the public floor! They have already forgotten that the real estate bubble was at the center of the previous crisis and it seems that it also forgets that young people need what they need, Your Honor, are affordable rentals That's what the housing law does, which gives them courage. [[Applauds]] [[applause]] Look, to define a liberal who does not want to intervene, a priori, in people's lives you don't mind imposing your moral vision on euthanasia, on abortion or on what we can or can't do with our body. That is the kind of liberalism that the People's Party is practicing. Everything very revealing, Mr Casado, of what is your vision of this country, but also your vision of Spanish society. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u21	You see, Mr. Married, recently, quite recently, Mr. Rajoy gave you some advice. He literally told him that he had to focus on making a good diagnosis. He told him that he had to forget about slogans, dogmatism, demagogy and sectarianism. I do not say it, Mr Rajoy said it, adding: because no one has come out of the crisis like this. Pay attention to him, Mr. Casado. On this occasion, listen to Mr. Rajoy. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Moralesja Gómez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u22	Mrs. Moraleja, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u23	Because your words, Your Honor, literally, after listening to you in the rostrum, are a kick to recovery. You did not want to talk about budgets in this forum, you are not interested; you do not want to talk about numbers, public accounts, expenditure items. [[Rumors]] Your speech has been based on three issues that I would like to discuss with you: firstly, in your view, the state is a problem for the economy to develop properly; secondly, in your view, it is necessary to return to austerity, and thirdly, your view is that inequality is a necessary evil. I'll explain it to you. [[Mr. White Casado Makes Negative Signs]] As you say no and laugh, although I don't think it's funny... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u24	I'm calling for silence again. Wait a minute, Minister. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. [[Mr. Alonso Pérez: Yes, yes!]] Yes, yes, Mr. Alonso Pérez, you too. [[Laughs.-Applause.-Speaks.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u25	Let's see if we can keep going. I was telling you, Your Honor, that for you the state is a problem, and it has again pointed out all those issues that you think really, far from being a solution to the crisis, become a problem. I believe that you have learned nothing during the pandemic, Your Honor, because if collectively, not only Spain but the whole of the countries, something we have understood is the value of the public, of what you have not said in this rostrum, because for you the less the state intervenes in the economy, the better and, moreover, Your Honor, it seems legitimate for you to defend these theses; if you believe them, it seems legitimate to me. [[Mr. White Casado Makes Negative Signs]] Now he says no, because then I don't know what it is to be liberal; in your opinion, it must be something else. But you would have to recognize the role of public health, of European funds, which we have vaccinated in strict order of age regardless of the pocket of the person administering the vaccine. You seem to have just come out - I don't know where to go back, because you would be very small, but I imagine - from the fall of the Berlin Wall, would you agree? You continue with the same slogans, with the same dogmas, as if the years had not passed, Mr Casado, as if you had lived in another world, among other issues, because you say that in the previous financial crisis you showed that your political project was good for this country. You do not know that the exit from the crises that led the People's Party was harmful for Spain, for the Spaniards, for our productive fabric, for our ability to boost growth. [[Applauds]] He doesn't know. You claim - you have done it in the rostrum - that public spending increases debt and slows economic growth - a sort of phobia that you have regarding public spending - without wanting to recognize that public investment - all international analysts say - is the basis for a country to transform, grow or advance. I would tell you, Mr Casado - to reflect - that if we did not have the public, without the encouragement of the State, we would live in societies in which there would be a social majority that would be in poverty and a degree of inequality that would make our country uninhabitable, much more during this pandemic. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if each of us had to seek life, which is what Mr. Married is advocating. Public expenditure must be properly financed - I totally agree - but demonising, ladies and gentlemen, is economically inefficient, because investment - seems obvious, but it must be repeated - has returns in the medium and in the long term. Debt is a necessary mechanism in times of pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, in times of pandemic, and also if we want to increase the size or competitiveness of our economy. These budgets have enormous transformative potential, 40 billion euros of investment. You don't say anything about that, Mr. Married? Does it not matter that the public stimulus will allow 40 billion in the economy, which will be multiplied by two and three in the form of jobs? You don't care what these accounts look like? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Because their problem is not spending; it is when it is starred in Governments where the People's Party does not lead the Executive. And the problem, Your Honor, believe me, is not spending or the timely increase in debt, the problem is the imbalance in finances. The one you did not face either with Mr Aznar or with Mr Rajoy. Today he has not dared to repeat it, although he has continued to speak of ruin and chaos, and the reality is that when Spain was on the verge of bankruptcy, not in 2008, lordship, in the year 2012, ruling the People's Party,... [[protests and rumors]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u27	... It was when the risk premium in Spain was around 500 points - today we are at 60-, when the deficit was more than 10%. [[applause]] With this budget, despite the costs of the pandemic, a reduction of up to 5% is envisaged, because GDP fell by 3% in that year; today, ladies and gentlemen, it is rising at around 6.5%. That's why you can't talk about ruin, chaos, black glasses, all that you represent, regardless of your file and your road map. Despite the uncertainty that all countries have at international level regarding growth rates, I will be very blunt, Mr Casado: this budget is credible. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] It's a tight budget. It is a good budget for the Spaniards and it is a suitable budget for our productive fabric. [[Applauds]] And it is, because the data is silly. They're clumsy. You don't like data. [[Rumors]] No, no, They're silly, they have nothing to do with the predictions. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Moralesja Gómez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u28	Mrs. Moraleja, please, I repeat silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u29	It has nothing to do with the forecasts, Mr. Married, I'm talking about realities, I'm talking about collection, I'm talking about the box, I'm talking about the data until October. They are not imaginations or dreams, it is what is recorded in the collection of the box. Because, look, even though the GDP at the end of this year may be somewhat lower than expected - we will see the October data - the collection will not be smaller, and the accounts will square. The collection at this point of the year is fulfilling what we had marked and we are on the way to making a closing forecast at the end of the year, made in this budget, even below what the indicators are pointing out, a growth of 10.8%. So, Your Honor, with a lower GDP than we have projected for the year 2022 - not us, all international bodies. You will have seen it, all give less growth for the year 2021 and more growth for the year 2022, that is to say that the GDP of 2022 will be higher than the GDP of 2021-, despite that, even though that happens, with a lower GDP, we are at this point of the year with a collection, which I will repeat to you, in October, that it has increased by 14%. [[Applauds]] Next year's income is forecast to grow by 8.1 per cent. I think this is understood by anyone, right? We do not need to know much about mathematics or public accounts: if with a GDP below this level we are at 14% and the prudent government expects to reach 10.8 at the end of the year, next year that we will enjoy a higher GDP, whatever it may be, we are predicting a revenue of 8.1, below 8.6 of nominal GDP. And Mr. Married tells me that the forecast of income is not credible and is not prudent! Ladies and gentlemen, you have never made an income forecast taking this factor into account and underestimating nominal GDP. But I'm going to tell you by tax, just in case you haven't retained that figure yet. In October - there are two months left to finish the year, it is obvious and elementary, but in order for Mr. Married to know it - I have to tell him that all taxes are growing. Withholdings from IRPF work grow by 7.3% and Mr. Married in the gallery: taxes are increasing because IRPF collection is increasing. Who do you want to cheat on, Mr. Married? If this government has not made any kind of regulatory change to the IRPF and this government is experiencing better collection in the IRPF, it will be for income protection, won't it, Mr. Casado? [[Applauds]] It is because the policies that the Government has put in place have allowed income protection. That is elementary, nor does it take a deep look at the budget in order to be able to share it. October's VAT, how is it growing? 13 per cent. Derived from what, ladies and gentlemen? Derived from the consumption that our society is experiencing, and that despite the fall in VAT taxes in relation to electricity. Special taxes, how do they behave? With an increase until October of 6,4 %. Withholdings from investment funds, how do they behave? With 75 per cent. Look, you're going to like this, Mr. Casado: split corporate tax payments, you know how much you've grown? 63%, and in spite of that, Your Honor, do you still say that economic growth is not a reality in our country? Who's gonna believe it? [[Applauds]] But it's not just the collection. Data for the month of October in employment, we are not talking about forecasts. Do you remember that axiom that was practiced in Spanish policy that said that jobs were created only from growth rates of 3%? - the oldest in the place I imagine we remember. I will give you a figure: in a quarter growing to 2%, 359 300 jobs have been created; we have exceeded the 20 million occupied according to the EPA. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard data - which the People's Party did not like at all - that have come to throw down the whole theory on which the People's Party is building its speech. The unemployment fell in October and never in the historical series had it fallen for forty-six years. Over the past eight months, the number of unemployed has been reduced by 751,000 and the number of participants reached 19,662,000 in October, the largest figure in history. Today, despite Mr. Casado, more people work in Spain than before the pandemic and when he ruled the People's Party. [[Applauds]] By the way, when you don't like unemployment data you question the EPA indicators, this is a bad loser. When you don't like the data that casts an indicator, you question it, as you have done with some data from the EPA saying that they don't count, but that they do, although I haven't fully figured out what it is you have meant to say that it is counted or stopped accounting. [[Rumors]] I give you more data, Your Honor, so that you can see the positive of the Spanish economy, of which the opposition party, the main one, would have to be happy. The contribution of external demand has been significant in the last period because of the boost of exports. The upturn in investment in equipment has shown the confidence of entrepreneurs. The business confidence indicator has improved by 1.1%, reaching almost pre-pandemic levels. The sales of large companies are around 95 % of those registered in 2019. Real exports up to August have exceeded by 5% the record figures achieved in 2019. This third quarter's EPA shows, in addition to employment data, that the recovery of the labour market is very rapid and that this improvement has accelerated in the third quarter. It is not, therefore, a question of putting a blindfold in front of this data. It is about moving forward, it is about being happy with society as a whole because the accounts have an important transformative potential. You have talked about the revenue forecast to try to disqualify the draft budgets. I believe he has said that he was born dead and I have just shown him that the forecasts on which these public accounts are based are not only prudent, but that with almost all certainty, Your Honor, they will be improved at the close of this year and even on how the collection is going to behave for next year. What happened in Mariano Rajoy's legislatures? I am going to tell you: the forecast of revenue in the draft budgets has never been met, it has always been less than budgeted. I will give you an average: in Mr Rajoy's years of government, the tax revenues were an average of 5386 million less than what was put in the budgets. In 2013, year of great uncertainty, do you know how much Mr Rajoy was wrong in making the budget forecast? In EUR 9 billion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you do not have any credibility in the budget estimates. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, this revenue issue has also incorporated it into the tax debate and you always set an example for some autonomous communities to try to contrast them and compare them with the Government of Spain. Today we have seen some figures from the budgets that are going to be approved in some autonomous community that you preside over. You say that I make up the revenue line because I make a bad forecast or, directly, because I do it by wanting. Have you seen today the budget presented by the Autonomous Community of Andalusia? Have you had time, Mr. Married? Have you been interested to see how you govern in those places where you currently govern? [[Mr. García Aegean: They're fine. These are magnificent budgets.-Rumors]] I will tell you, Mr García Aegean, I have been aware of what you are proposing. Mr Moreno Bonilla places in his draft budgets around EUR 1 billion of a transfer from the State, a supposed COVID fund that does not exist in the draft budgets. In other words, they inflate revenue forecasts with EUR 1 billion. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] And you tell me that I first make the expense and then the picture to see what comes out of the income forecast, you! And where do you govern? Do you know what happens in the communities where the People's Party rules? You will see: you have entered a downward spiral of taxes, whispered by Mr Casado, which results in a lower collection and which implies a significant decrease in the public spending capacity of the autonomous communities. That's right, they either accept that drop in collection and then, without any redundancy, they either invent a billion in income - that is, deficit and debt - or they ask the Spanish government for money. I mean, I'm under taxes, and now, once I don't have enough money, I say to the Spanish government, "Go up the taxes because I'm better off lowering them." [[Applauds]] Philibusterism is called that in politics, Mr. Married. I invite you to check them, because you put it with your name and surnames. As for the deficit, I believe that Mr Casado every year, whenever I have had the opportunity to discuss the budget forecasts with him, has the same argument that the progressive government is a government that does not take care of the deficit and the debt. False. This budget improves the forecast of the stability programme by 2 tenths, when even in 2020 there were bodies that put Spain's deficit at 14 % or 15 % of its GDP. Do you remember how much we ended, Your Honor, including the consolidation of the Sareb? In 10.7%. The Sareb was the instrument invented by the People's Party to be able to clean up the public accounts and the balance sheets of the financial institutions and which, of course, has then had an impact on the accounts of all the Spaniards. At 10.7%, ladies and gentlemen. According to the IMF, the deficit of 2022 will be in line with the forecast of the advanced economies, an average of 4.8%. Compared to 5%, 4.8%, and you take your hands to your head. What would Germany, France, Italy and other countries that have obviously had to make use of the deficit as a result of the pandemic? According to forecasts for this year, Spain is going to record a deficit lower than Italy and also to France. This is what international agencies proclaim. But what did the lordships of the People's Party do? Because it gives the impression that the handling of these two parameters was outstanding during Mr. Rajoy's stage. They systematically failed to meet the deficit target and accumulated an additional EUR 32 billion compared to the initial targets. That was what happened to the governments of the People's Party. What about the debt? The deficit handles it worse, but the debt handles it better? I will give you another fact: this government is going to reduce the debt in two years 5 percentage points compared to GDP and without cuts. Do you know how much the People's Party reduced? This government in two years, five points. The People's Party in five years, three points. That is the service sheet presented by the People's Party with regard to debt. Do you know what the spending policy is most reduced in this budget, Your Honor? Have you had the opportunity to observe? Just the public debt policy, which is reduced by 4.4%. There are 1372 million euros less budgeted, which highlights Mr Casado's accusations about mortgages for the future. Moreover, you more than anyone mortgaged the future, because with the PP increased the debt. Listen to me, Mr Casado, with the People's Party the debt increased 29 percentage points, 402 billion euros more debt. [[Mr. García Aegean: They didn't pay!- Rumors]] Are you getting nervous about this? [[Protests.-Applause.]] Of course, I understand that, because if this progressive government takes care of and handles deficit and debt better than the People's Party, imagine what arguments Mr. Married has left. Are you talking about the price of electricity, Mr. Casado? [[Mr Casado Blanco, Mr García Egea and Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo make affirmative gestures]] He's got the waste of getting into the gallery to talk about the price of electricity. Let's see what the People's Party government did with regard to energy prices. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: let's see, let's see!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u31	He approved, by his vote, a 7 % tax added to the value of electricity production, a tax of the People's Party. He waged a battle against renewable energies, with measures, such as the adoption of the sun tax, which this Government had to dismantle since its arrival in Moncloa and, in addition, it had to pay for that war of international arbitration that has cost and that will continue to cost the public purse a lot of money for the decisions you have taken. [[Applauds]] He put a hydraulic cannon on the electricity companies - he remembers this which also voted in favour of you? - that the Supreme Court annulled and that it has cost this state - the government, in this case - €1400 million for the inability of the People's Party to undertake a reform that was legal. [[Rumors and Protests]] What have we, ladies and gentlemen, done to contain the price of light, with a clear commitment from the President of the Government to ensure that the average payment of the bill for light is...? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u32	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please. It was impossible to follow the plenary session and it was impossible for the speaker to speak in conditions. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. [[Rumors and Protests]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u33	They just don't like to hear about things. [[Laughter]] The progressive government has taken measures that, in addition to the structural ones that are at the door, have already brought down more than EUR 2 billion for families, self-employed people and businesses; indeed, without the affirmative vote of the People's Parliamentary Group, which did not want to vote in favour of these measures. [[Applauds]] A reduction in VAT from 21 % to 10 %, a reduction in excise duty on electricity from 5,11 % to 0,5 % and a suspension during the third and fourth quarter of this year of the value tax on electricity production so that companies can have a lower cost on the electricity bill which, as you well know, is an important and significant part of the cost of starting up companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just made clear to you what you have done on a subject like this and what we have done, and I will repeat to you something I have been saying in recent times. Since arriving in Moncloa, this government has had to make an urgent effort to attract back investment in renewable energy, clean energy and cheap energy, which will be the solution to the electricity problem, along with international impulses to ensure that the problems that are common to the rest of the countries - the purchase of gas, the structure of the electricity market or the speculation that may be occurring with regard to CO2 - are monitored by the European authorities and, therefore, the wholesale market does not have an impact on the consumer's bill. Secondly, on which Mr Casado has made his statement. The PP proposes to return to austerity every day. Isn't that right, Mr. Married? [[Mr Casado Blanco makes negative gestures.-Various ladies and gentlemen: No!-Rumores]] Oh, not now. For it must be that the papers and your thinking go in the opposite direction, because that is what you said this afternoon when you talked about wasteful public spending, when you talked about the increase in the deficit, when you talked about the debt, when you said throughout this period that it is important - for you essential - that the Spanish Government implement a battery of measures that bring us back to austerity. I will also make this very clear in this section: Spain does not deserve any cuts or privatisations. It is not the policies that must be implemented either now or at any other time as a result of a financial crisis. You propose less state and cuts in public spending. I do not know what is the last figure you have said from the rostrum what you think should be cut in public spending. [[The Lord]] By the way, Your Honor, if all that public spending associated with the functioning of the administration structure is superfluous, in your opinion, why didn't they take it off when they had absolute majority? [[Applauds]] Because that expenditure is maintained invariably in all budgets and you have had the opportunity to eliminate it, which is what you are asking us now, as if the State could function without officials or without the structures that allow it to be effective. I will repeat this to you again, although I have told you in previous speeches. Your Honor, the adjustment plans are not yet in place and the cut-off policies that so much like this bench are not in this crisis. We cannot hypothesize neither growth - the progress of economic activity - nor employment creation, the two major issues that are plagued by a spiral of policies that has been demonstrated, not by this Progressive Government, but by the whole of the European community, that have been wrong. That is why the Commission has come to grips with this crisis with economic stimulus and putting on the table EUR 140 billion for our country to stimulate growth and to act as a tractor of private initiative. You don't share that either, Mr. Married? You believe that what Europe should have done was to demand that Spain be already in 3% of the deficit and 60% of the debt, don't you, Mr Casado? This is not even proposed by the great Orthodox of economic policy in Brussels. The head of the International Monetary Fund himself said that I do not think he is a suspect, either of a social communist or of Venezuelan, or of any of the qualifications you put forward. He said that we had to properly assess the timing of adjustment policies, because we could not cause an added drop in domestic demand in a fiscal consolidation process. Now this debate is back to the European Commission. We are talking in the international environment about how and how fiscal rules need to be restored so that they do not slow economic growth. Look, in Europe, talking about how to make tax rules and the People's Party more flexible one day, yes and another, also asking for a cut-off plan so that public spending is not the one that helps people. It is true, Your Honor, that the policy you practice does not give rise to deception. You have a cycle in three steps that you are doing progressively and that you can see very well in the communities where you govern. First they neglect public services and, therefore, they do not want or are not happy that there is an increase for health, for education, for dependence; then we talk about dependence. Then you divert money and citizens to the private sphere; for you it doesn't matter how and how the provision of public services is made. And when you delegitimize them, when you with that lack of resources already take away the ability to express public services, then you say that taxes serve nothing - you see it - and therefore more cuts and more policy of saving anyone! This is what you practice, for example, with your tax policy. He said it again. I do not know if anyone has been curious to read the amendment to the whole of the People's Parliamentary Group. I've had it and they're talking about a fiscal hack - it's not weird, this we already know - a catastrophe - they don't know what the catastrophe is - and a fiscal gun! In the amendment to the whole, the main opposition party talks about fiscal gunfire! Mr. Married, get out of your guns, get out of your shit! [[Protests]] Be able to contribute constructively to this budget. [[Applauds]] Stop doing tax populism!Do pedagogy about taxation, as does anyone who wants to live in a developed society. Not you. You guys practice that tax populism. You argue that taxes harm all people equally and also defend that when they are reduced, when they are removed, they also benefit everyone equally in a kind of overflowing effect of those who have the most. Look at you, Your Honor, let's go to the specific cases. Community of Madrid. In the Community of Madrid - another community where you govern -, with the tax rebate proposed by Mrs Díaz Ayuso, among the citizens who have to face up to the payment of their taxes at this time who are going to pay the decrease in the collection and who least will be saved in the pocket by the tax rebate are the usual ones: the middle class and the working class. Do you know who's going to save more with that tax change you've made, ladies and gentlemen? The usual! The ones with the most! Indeed, the rich! [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] Because that fiscal race is a race straight into the abyss. Let us stop at the proposal that Mr Casado is proposing for a possible draft budget. You are talking about 10 billion less collection or a down payment - if I have not misunderstood you, Mr Married - of 10 billion euros from the budgets. First question: if you take out EUR 10 billion of income, what spending policy is going to fall by EUR 10 billion? Not for 200, Your Honor, not for 300. For 10 billion euros! You know which one? [[Mr CasadoBlanco: European funds]] None. Why? Because it's a lie. Your proposal is not going to fall EUR 10 billion. [[Applauds]] Have you realized that of the proposal you make of the 10 billion, 45 billion go to the autonomous communities? Have you noticed that when you lower IRPF and VAT 55 % of VAT goes directly to the Autonomous Communities? Did you not think you'd make it up to them if a tax rebate of this kind occurred? What does Mr. Married mean? That now the autonomous communities with 45 billion euros less - those that they would not give - have to provide the same services in health, in education, in housing, in dependence, in the stimulation of the productive system? What would you say to Mr. Moreno Bonilla on this matter? What are you going to take away from him not only the part that he puts himself over, but 4.5 billion to autonomous communities and somewhat similar to local entities? Man, that would be ugly, wouldn't it? You'd have to make it up to him, wouldn't you, Mr. García Aegean? [[Mr. García Aegean: No.-Rumores]] Ah, no, Mr. García Aegean says no. You have even said that you want to limit the fees, that you limit everything that allows for this better collection, and I already told you that only in the Madrid Community with these tax reforms will the people who earn 15,000 euros have a savings of approximately 100 euros and those who have a wealth of 15 million euros are really going to benefit from that discount. And you speak of Italy and France. You compare us and say that we are going in a slower or less accompanied progression with other countries in our environment. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to tax collection, we are in the 18th position of the 27 Member States; so that you do not forget, Mr Casado, I repeat that Spain is in the 18th position of the 27 Member States. Italy's on the sixth. So, I wonder: do you actually say that we have to tend to the collection that a country like Italy has, with the fiscal pressure that Italy has? See, Italy, 42.3% of GDP tax pressure. Spain, 34.8 % of GDP tax pressure. So, what do you think? When you set an example to Draghi, do you mean we have to raise the tax burden, Your Honor? In addition, you compare yourself to Draghi and allow me a confidence, Mr. Married: you are not Draghi and you notice. [[Applauds]] More elements, ladies and gentlemen. Not only have you not contributed from the opposition to amend or mitigate the effects of the rise of electricity by your vote against it, but you have tacitly or expressly opposed the payment of a proportional share by the electricians. You haven't had any blush in this, Mr. Married. You prefer that money to be saved by companies and that we continue to reduce the state's collection capacity; at least that's what you say when you pretend to keep going down or have higher taxation. That's right, that the profits of the electricity companies are not touched. Pure incoherence and pure tax populism. I would say that you have been riding all through your intervention on inflation and from the government we have been very clear. Of course we are facing a scenario with uncertainty, I have recognized it. Of course, we are still metabolizing the economic shock of the pandemic. Mr Casado says that he was already saying that there was going to be an economic shock; we were saying that all citizens, Mr Casado, are not worthy. But there are some data that, as much as you don't like them, can't help but be obvious: economic growth is solid, unemployment is reduced and the underlying inflation is, ladies and gentlemen, at 1.4%. Some of you argue that inflation is more or less the same as we could have in 1992, but none of you points out that that underlying inflation is now four points below. It is not the same to have a transitional inflation caused primarily by the energy costs to which it is underlying and therefore of serious risk. That is the consensus of all experts at the international level; it is stated that this inflation must be monitored, but that it did not leave behind the potential for growth. Your Honor, you are talking about the effect inflation has on disposable income. I am going to give you the latest data, because I think it is appropriate to keep them in mind so that citizens can choose and that citizens can compare. With the People's Party wage income was 3.7% lower at the end of Rajoy's legislature than upon his arrival in power. They lowered their wage by 3.7%. The increase in university fees was 35%. The pharmaceutical copago went up 17%. The average income per person in 2011 was EUR 13,902; in the last year you ruled it was EUR 13,690, 1.5% less after Mr Rajoy's passage through the Moncloa. With the PP the high incomes went on to earn 6.6 times more, bringing 20% of the total of what was won. Salaries fell by 5% to offset the increase in the cost of living. Your Honor, can you really say that employee income and that citizens' incomes have a worse prognosis with this budget than with the concrete actions of the People's Party? You don't believe that either. [[Applauds]] In fact, I would remind you that the budgets have an indirect income of EUR 5542; I have told you this morning and you have not said anything either. And then he talked about the recovery funds. How long and how heavy you're making Mr. Married this from the recovery funds. It seems that it would have been better if they had not arrived in Spain; and, of course, he has worked for it. If it had been for the work and miracles of Mr Casado, I tell you that the money would not have come to Spain. First, because you went there to talk bad about our country. You went to Brussels to talk bad about Spain. Mr. Married, you will pursue that bad image you tried to project from our country. He then said that the funds did not arrive, because the European Commission was not going to hand over that economic volume to a Social Democratic Government and little less than a demonstration. However, the money arrived. Now you say that the budget is not going to be implemented and I say to you, Mr Casado, that the budget is going to be implemented. [[Applauds]] We're going to do it ourselves, municipalities and autonomous communities. I think they do not hide it and the European funds are entangled, Mr Casado, because they think they are good for the country, simply because of that. I will give you the data again - I gave it to you this morning, but you have continued to ignore it -: on 15 October the expenditure committed amounts to 51.6% of the total, the obligations to more than 33% of the total and the authorised expenditure to 62.8% of the total. Where are you going with 3 % or 5 % execution, as you said this morning in the rostrum? Where did you get that data, Mr. Casado? Perhaps it is an ancient fact of the month of February, of the month of March or of the month of April. In addition, Your Honor, the autonomous communities and local entities also have the challenge of execution and, therefore, we all have to go hand in hand, because it is necessary for that money to be injected into the economy. The third thing I want to highlight in this speech is that I am absolutely convinced that inequality is a necessary evil for the policies and neoliberal theories of the People's Party. And that, Your Honor, I say to you because you have opposed each and every one of the measures intended to combat inequality in this house. Interprofessional minimum wage. But, Mr. Married, if you have maintained a tougher position than that of the entrepreneurs themselves! If you have refused to raise the interprofessional minimum wage by saying it was a ruin! Therefore, for you the redistribution of income which means the interprofessional minimum wage must not be made, that those most vulnerable workers still cannot reach the end of the month, because those who are managed are already better off and are the ones you usually defend. Therefore, with you we do not count for the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage. What about pensions? Are you happy, Mr. Casado, that next year the pensions will be revalued according to the CPI? Because I have heard you in this rostrum defend that the good thing was the law of the People's Party, which revalues pensions to 0.25 %, when the next year will be revalued at least in the environment of 2.3 or 2.4 %, according to the forecast of IPC of November this year. Therefore, Your Honor, neither can we count on you in pensions. Housing. I believe that Mr Casado has nothing to talk about housing; other leaders of the People's Party have already done so. Do you remember Mr. Almeida, what he said about the house? Do you remember, Mr. Casado, what Mr. Almeida, the governor of Spain's most inhabited city, the mayor of Madrid, said? You know what he said? That there was nothing to be done about housing. That is the policy you practice in relation to something as emerging as the problem of young people with regard to housing. And besides, you disqualified the emancipation bonus. I don't know which youth you're meeting with, Mr. Married. Of course, young people in the government party environment are young people who have precarious jobs, who have difficulty reaching the end of the month and who cannot be emancipated because they do not have affordable housing on hand. That is the environment of this Government. [[Applauds]] You've talked about the tail of hunger. You. It does not seem to be blushing, either, when we talk about an issue that, of course, is opening up to all of us in the previous financial crisis. Do you know how much the 2017 budgets for the queues of hunger, for children's policies, are envisaged? I will tell you: EUR 342 million. Do you know how much this budget envisages for the same policy? EUR 1402 million. 1000 million more, Your Honor, for the protection of families! [[Applauds]] We therefore do not have Mr Casado in the fight against inequality either. With regard to the policies that have to enable us to activate employment, you have heard it in the rostrum, not only is there no longer the support of the main opposition party, but Mr Casado prefers not to listen to it, he prefers to ignore how the recovery of our labour market is taking place. I do not think it is the task of the opposition to rejoice in the evils of others. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to be happy with the good things that happen to people, and getting jobs back is good for people, not for this government, good for people, and that should be a source of satisfaction for you. It has called into question the EPA. You said no, which is that the EPA is not telling the workers who are at ERTE and that, therefore, if we tell them... Look, Your Honor, I insist that the reality is that with the People's Party, in 2013 - I repeat it always, always - the highest unemployment figures that this country has had in its historical series were achieved. Do you remember how much, Your Honor, with Mr. Rajoy's government? 6.27 million unemployed. That is the service sheet presented by the People's Party. Termination, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. One second, Minister. [[Rumors]] Keep quiet, please. The minister is going to finish. Please respect her as well as your spokesman has been respected. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. I said that I finish my speech, Your Honor, in that context in which you too have finished it. I think we'd all have to give each other some advice. I believe that the rift, ladies and gentlemen, should remain out of the budget debate and out of this House. I say this because what we are talking about, in short, with public accounts, is values that become priorities and therefore go hand in hand in public accounts. However, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about those values - and that is what you referred to at the end of your speech - you talk, for example, about institutional strengthening. Institutional strengthening? And I ask myself: Do you really believe in institutional strengthening, Mr. Married? And we ask everyone: And if you believe in institutional strengthening, why not renew the General Council of the Judiciary? [[Applauds]] Why? [[Rumors]] He is going to tell this Government about institutional strengthening, when it has taken three years for expired bodies to be able to renew themselves, and there are some that you feel you do not need to renew, or you like how it is, or you will know why you do not renew it. You talk about helping families - so I've wanted to understand - and you say they're going to fund in vitro fertilization. Mr Casado must be the last in this country who has not learned that in vitro fertilization is part of the National Health System's portfolio of services. [[Applauds]] And you speak, Mr. Married, of dependence. The People's Party is talking about dependency, huh?; the People's Party, which, when it arrived at the Government of the nation, withdrew funding from the autonomous communities to support the fourth pillar of the welfare state that made up the dependency. And not only did they cut the service portfolio, but they cut the hours of attention that could be devoted to dependent people; some of us were, ladies and gentlemen, to know perfectly what the road map of all those cuts was. You eliminated the agreed level for dependency; this government has increased it by 46% in just two years, 46%... No, millions no, Your Honor, 12 billion we have put it into dependency, 12 billion in just two years. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] [[Applauds]] In addition, the contribution of the caregivers to the social security system was charged. Dependency, I'm afraid, Mr. Married, that you should be more quiet than talking about what you're talking about. With regard to the Employment Plan - the third pillar that you have put on the table - I just tell you not to disrupt and leave the economy and this government to continue practicing and talking about the rest. Mr. Married, I am not going to talk about the insults you promote - yes, yes - regarding betrayals, covenants and independenceists. [[rumors]] You, when you think of it, bring us here the pain of the victims. I am not going to go into something that I think is not good for democracy, because each and every one of the groups sitting in this House, don't forget, each and every one of the groups sitting in this House do it according to a democratic rule and do it because there are citizens who have made a bet for that formation, understanding that they better defend their interests. And, as I told you this morning, Mr Casado, it is not the citizens who vote badly; we are the rulers, we are the political leaders who have to agree. You practically say that Mr Sánchez is totalitarian, that he practices a policy of alliances that has neither feet nor heads and that, moreover - he has repeated it again in this rostrum - he has done what no other government has done during the years of the pandemic. He repeated it again in the rostrum. You said again that, in the face of the Constitutional ruling, Your Honor, a pandemic law. It's just that I, every time I hear Mr. Married say that the proposal he puts on the table is a law of pandemics... That means - we are mistaken - transferring the guarantees of the fundamental rights of citizens to the autonomous communities, and I have to tell you that it has been completely discarded according to the ruling of the Constitutional Court. But you don't care, Mr. Married, you don't care; you don't care what the Constitutional rulings say. You're still with your pandemic law. [[Rumors]] No, no, I will continue to say what I believe is appropriate for this debate. [[Applauds]] I know it's getting long, I know it. Since that exclusion, Your Honor, nothing is built, because democracy gains and becomes stronger from inclusion and not from sectarianism. Therefore, this is going to build bridges, it is not going to raise walls; it is not going to put stones on the road, it is going to be that everyone, according to their own perspective, can make up for the end. What you are going to do today and tomorrow, Mr Casado, must clearly explain to all citizens, because voting no to these budgets means voting no to the exit of the pandemic, voting no to young people having more opportunities, voting no to improve the purchasing capacity of pensioners, voting no to double investment in science, voting no to EUR 40 billion in investments for all territories; it means, ladies and gentlemen, at this time of fair recovery, saying no to fiscal responsibility, saying no to social justice and saying no to structural reforms with transformative potential. This is what these budgets represent, this is the reality of a country that wants to recover, that wants to progress and that wants to move forward, and you, Your Honor, are neither expected nor expected. And we will do it, we will do it led by President Sánchez and despite you, because despite your predictions, despite your ashes, 2022, by the hand of these public accounts, by the hand of the recovery funds will, Your Honor, hardly weigh it, a good year for the social majority of this country. I hope, Your Honor, one day we will find the People's Party in the search for that consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Casado Blanco. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u37	Let's see, minister, where we start. I've never seen you say so little in so long. What a barbarity. [[Applauds]] There is one thing that has become clear: you come here to oppose the opposition. He already sees us in the government. An hour of infumable replica that you bring written with things that I have not said. Really, it creates a lot of uneasiness to hear the Minister of Finance say these issues. Really, can you talk about Andalusia, Mrs. Montero? Really? After having been an Economics and Finance Advisor in Andalusia, leaving the worst figures of unemployment, debt, deficit and corruption in all Western Europe, do you come here to talk about Andalusia? [[Applauds]] If Juanma Moreno had to come to order forty years later. Man, please! If you, even as a minister, tried to intervene the accounts you had left as a counselor. I am not going to go into cases of corruption, I think today is not a day to talk about corruption with whom you sit two benches above, but, man, what you, who have been in the Isophoton plot and in the ERE, voting as a counselor of Chaves and Griñán, come here to give lessons about what has happened in France seems to me, simply sneezing, Mrs. Montero, for you, for Planas, for Calvo, for Calviño, the tax evader, for Duke, to rest in peace, man!, for the Party We can of Mrs. Díaz. [[rumors and protests]] But do you make corruption choices? Please. Look, the amendment to the whole is not done by the People's Party, it has been done by the Bank of Spain, it has been done by the AIReF, it has been done by the IMF, it has been done by everyone, and unemployment..., really, do not keep repeating a lie. We find ourselves with a savage inertia of the figures that Zapatero left. Obviously, it was six months until we paid the bills that were in the drawer and until the deficit and unemployment could be balanced in record time. They left us 11 deficit points, they left us three and a half million unemployed. Stop lying now, Mrs. Díaz and Mrs. Montero, you were there. Obviously, you can't do it in a day, because this is like when a car goes downhill, you have to stop it. It took us half a year to stop him, but it was his fault. Stop lying to people. [[Applauds]] And, man, tell me now the unemployment figures when the IMF said last week that Spain next year is going to exceed Greece's record and it's going to be the eurozone country with the most unemployment, really, it's tremendous. And that you talk about the Autonomous Communities of the PP, when you have cut EUR 15 billion from the contributions you have made, is tremendous. And the funds have not negotiated them with them, and they claim to be executed or managed with the programmes you have proposed. Even Calviño has sent a letter to the autonomies saying: Pass me three projects of the thousand and peaks that have been presented. It's a defiance. However, even Solbes and Octavio Granados said that they had done it wrong in their Government. What we are telling you now is that they will not again pollute everything that is happening in the European Union. In the European Union three women of the People's Party - Lagarde, Von der Leyen and Merkel - managed the European funds, and Mr Sánchez was silent, sucking the wheel, it will not be that he ruined it. [[Applauds]] Why don't you publish the European Union agreement? What do they hide from the Spaniards? We need to ask this in Brussels to know what hacks they raised by 2023 or 2024 when we govern. Tolls on the highways? The end of the joint contribution of marriages and couples? Are we posing here the diesel loop? What do you mean, taxes are progressive? Look, inflation is the most regressive tax; it's the tax on the poor, on everyone alike. Their taxes are tremendously regressive, because they are about diesel, plastics, packaging, waste, insurance premiums, pension plans, that is, what everyone has, the self-employed, the families. What you do is let your ministers have tax parapets to evade taxes; we think we have to save on spending. Yes, we did it with the CORA, EUR 42 billion; we did it also by supporting the AIReF report, by Mr Escrivá, EUR 31 billion. That is what the tax reduction plan can be paid for. And if you still don't like that amendment that you're going to delete, what you can do is ask, like Macron, that the European funds pay for it instead of being handing over money to the new 18-year-old voters to try to vote for you, which not even with those, because young people need certainty. [[Applauds]] You tell me about guns. You have the defiance of talking to us about guns when you're making a deal with Bildu, who doesn't deny 850 murders, 24 killed by the People's Party and 14 murders by the Socialist Party. [[applause]] [[The applause continues]] How ashamed you are to talk about guns in this House, if you have been begging Bildu's support, which is a party whose spokesman is jailed for pointing targets as Egin's publisher! What a shame! And you're talking about labor reform. Labour reform, for you to know, makes it possible to create jobs below 2% of GDP growth in Spain for the first time in history. Before, it was necessary to grow above 2% to create jobs, now at 0.7%; it triples the capacity to create jobs. And in housing, how do you say that your housing law, which is not the first but the sixth in democracy, will lower prices if it is already raising them, for example, in Barcelona? And in the matter of the queues of hunger, he presumes that there is more budget for the queues of hunger; for of course, because there are more people in the queues of hunger because of his evil government; 2 million has come to be. [[Applauds]] And tell me about Draghi. He says, "No, you're not like Draghi. Well, it's just that Sanchez, who's sending the president of the United States to you in 30 seconds while he's taking Morón's troops to Italy because he doesn't trust anyone who deals with Maduro...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u38	Your Honor, your time is up. Go finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u39	Yeah. ... to grant grants from European funds to Plus Ultra. Ask Mr Ábalos what happened at the airport and what happened with Plus Ultra; maybe he understands why Biden doesn't want to sit with Mr Sánchez, who does the opposite of what an ally has to do. [[Applauds]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u40	Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u41	I'm done. He talks about addiction, in vitro fertilization... if he's four years on the waiting list! Dependency, yes, 55,000 dependents have died without you answering. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. Calvino said you guys are slow, but safe. There's no time to waste. We can't admit his slowness or his verbrain here for an hour to say absolutely nothing. These budgets aren't...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u42	Your Honor, don't say it ends and ends, please. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u43	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u44	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u45	Look at the faces of the unemployed, look at the faces of young people and tell them that Spain is doing very well, tell them that this is going phenomenal. [[rumors]] Let's see if you have the decency to tell the Spaniards that they need a better government, that you have no time to waste and that you have done nothing to prevent this brutal crisis that we all suffer. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.- Various Members: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u46	I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Rumors.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence. I hope you know the times for this kind of debate and the Rules of Procedure; I think you know them. The Minister therefore has the floor. Please respect the use of the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Married, when you run out of arguments, resort to personal attacks. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That is why I think you have very clearly expressed what you have tried to do in your second intervention regarding my management or the passage of my person by the governments of my autonomous community; I understand that that is what you have tried to do: personal attacks, which is the same as a bad loser who runs out of political arguments to discuss. [[Rumors]] Be you more polite, ladies and gentlemen, please; be you more polite because I do not interrupt you when you are speaking. [[Applauds]] Compañeros and compañeras, we will not allow you to convert as always the debates you lose into a barrier. We are not going to allow it, and we are not going to allow it, ladies and gentlemen, because, of course, you come up here to the rostrum and start talking about... corruption did you say? I haven't talked about corruption, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] I haven't talked about corruption, and I could have done it. By the way, Your Honor, will the People's Party pay what has been defrauded of corporate tax by Genoa's illegal headquarters? What a shame, ladies and gentlemen! What a shame! [[Applause.-Protests.-Various Members: ERE! ERR! ERR! ERR!]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u48	One second, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a football stadium, honestly. Really, we're being listened to by a lot of citizens. Think, please, of those who listen to us, of their relatives, of their children, of all, please. [[Applauds]] All of them. Let's respect the speaking time. Please, let us end the Minister's intervention in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that many of us, I really say, ladies and gentlemen, are somewhat ashamed of that image which moves outside Parliament, which we seem to be a schoolyard, not to say, as the President says, a football stadium. It's just that we look like a schoolyard where you start to chant when it seems to you that it's time to interrupt such an important debate for this country. Your Honor, I am not the one who in the amendment to the whole speaks of fiscal gunning. It is that when you no longer have arguments, when you already run out of adjectives, you use the superlative of the superlative. I do not know what you are going to say - I think it is Mr Espinosa who is going to intervene - but they have left you nothing, Mr Espinosa, in the prosecution. It's you who talk about tax gunning, and I understand that you don't recognize yourself in that argument. Your Honor, I don't know who wrote it, but of course it seems anything less moderate, less constructive or less present. You speak of labour reform again, and I believe we have been very clear since we arrived in Moncloa, Your Honor. Of course we will correct the mistakes of the People's Party with its labor reform. We are going to correct it and we are going to modernize relations for the 21st century! [[Applauds]] And we're going to do it with the employers and the unions. I would like to remind you, Mr Casado, that you have made an unagreed labour reform with no one, absolutely no one. And not only do they not help consensus, but they put Chinese on the road over and over again. What you propose in this rostrum, Mr. Married, is not even a return to Mr. Rajoy's stage. You go directly back to the policies Mr Aznar was leading. You idealize that past, Your Honor; you make it clinging to variables, to parameters that do not correspond at all to the reality of the Spanish society of the 21st century. You, from that perspective, do not know how to interpret reality, you see it all black and you only care about the electoral performance that your actions can have or that your policies can have. I believe, Your Honor, and I sincerely believe, that this country will not forgive the People's Party at the worst moment in its history from shrugging its shoulders and putting Chinese on the road to social shield and recovery. You're not going to forgive him, Mr. Married, and you're going to get him in and out of your party. I have been extraordinarily respectful to you, I have not told you at all about your entertainments in relation to the internal situation of your party. Your Honor, I haven't said anything to you at all. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u50	Mr. Alonso, this is the second time you've been called to order. I warn you, this is the second time you've been called the order. Okay? Go on, minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u51	Thank you very much, President. In this debate you accuse me - and I think it's even ugly to do it in the gallery, especially when you understand, and it's probably what you think, that hasn't gone well with it - of verborrea. I have listened to you carefully and I believe that all the ladies and gentlemen too, but have you heard yourself, Mr. Married? From the rostrum it looked like a machine gun. Dialectically and verbally you've heard each other? Do you accuse me of verborrhea? You're accusing me of that? [[Rumors]] Yes, of course, because the one who prepares the topics always says the same thing, Mr. García Aegean. [[Laughter and applause]] Of course, because they don't study, they don't care. Repeat what they say in the rostrum because it doesn't matter to them, it serves them for a break and for a break, as it is said in my land. The debate with Mr Casado ended by telling the honourable Members and the citizens that I believe we have both expressed two very different models of understanding society and of getting out of the crisis. On the part of this progressive government, a model that wants to have everyone, which is inclusive, that allows the most vulnerable citizens to have protection from the state, that makes our middle class expand and be able to represent the economic dynamism and the rise in the social ladder to which we all aspire; a just recovery that reaches all territories, that reaches all people and that allows us to overcome the structural imbalances that our economy had, that our society had before the arrival of this pandemic. We represent a model that looks with optimism at the future, which allows us to protect employment in the worst recent moment that our democracy has passed, which allows our productive fabric to have found in the state support and help not to have to dissolve companies or not to have to fire workers massively from the labour market. We have developed a value-based policy, in which solidarity, especially with those countries that have the most problems in accessing the vaccine, is evident. We have strengthened the international image of Spain, being able to promote absolutely necessary debates with all our neighbouring countries. As much as it is against the People's Party, we represent a modern country, a country in transformation, a country that really wants to take the reins of what is a better future for its children and grandchildren. That is why I want to tell the rest of the groups in the House to join this process, an exciting process which you have seen with absolute clarity that does not correspond to the wishes of the People's Party, that it is self-excluded from a process of construction and that it prefers to be in easy politics, in disqualification, in the short boating as elements to be provided to solve the lives of citizens. I would tell the members of this government and the groups the parliamentarians who support it that we support ours; we will pursue the welfare of that great majority that we represent, to comply with our agreements with the Spanish people, that each one of us represents and subscribe to in his day, and to try to ensure that if the People's Party is not going to contribute to building that future, at least it will not interfere. Anyway, we're still here. Let us continue, Mr. Married, with the hand extended to the People's Party. I hope that you will come to the conclusion that everyone comes to the conclusion that now the important thing is to be able to contribute each according to our capacity. Let yourself, Mr. Married, take off those black glasses that you permanently wear. Don't be so anxious about the election calls. I can tell you that this government is going to finish the legislature. It's not time to think about votes, it's time to think about people's well-being and there you'll always find us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet so that the speaker can start properly, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u53	Thank you. [[The lady]] 'You will say and do things that will freeze our blood.' It was in 2005 that Patxi López, the then top socialist leader in the Basque Country, was Pilar Ruiz Albisu on the second anniversary of the murder of his son, Josepha Pagazaurtundúa, by the terrorist band ETA. Joseba was a police sergeant and militant of the Socialist Party. Two years earlier, some morning, Joseba was having breakfast when a hooded man entered the Daytona Andoain bar, pulled out a gun and shot him four times in the head, shoulder and stomach. Today, eighteen years later, we begin the debate for the approval of the General Budgets of the State for 2022 and the words of his mother resound strongly in our ears, because that 'you will say and do things that will freeze my blood' is almost prophetic when listening now to Arnaldo Otegi affirm that if to get two hundred prisoners we have to vote the budgets, we vote them. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets begin to freeze our blood because, even before entering the programmes, chapters, services and sections, what they do is to legitimize, accepting their support, the totalitarian project that remains alive and very alive in the Basque Country; what they do is to whitewash those who for decades have made murder and violence a political weapon; what they do is to consolidate a betrayal without palliatives to the victims and their families, who see that, conditioning the budgets, ETA wins again. The same Pedro Sánchez who - let's remember - reached the Moncloa by deceiving the Spaniards, claiming that he would not sleep at night if he had to agree with the communists and promising not to agree with the coup; the same Pedro Sánchez who walked through the TV sets denying that he would approve the pardons, promising that he would bring Puigdemont to Spain and proclaiming -'I can tell you five or twenty times' - that he would never agree with Bildu, that same Pedro Sánchez again makes the lie his way of doing politics and subordinates everything to a single objective: his permanence in power. At this point no one is surprised by the budgets that the Government of Pedro Sánchez brings to debate in this House; false budgets, lacking any credibility; irregular budgets, without any internal coherence, designed to the measure of a Frankenstein Government, for the sole purpose of paying the high price that his allies demand for their support, the budgets of 'what is about me', and what is worse, budgets that will cause serious damage to the Spanish economy at a delicate time. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important annual debate to set the direction of the Spanish economy; a transcendental law, the instrument of economic policy par excellence and, therefore, also the most revealing of the real will of a government when it pushes it. This debate takes place at an extremely difficult time for the Spanish economy, the worst possible time. Firstly, because of the economic situation that Spain was going through before the pandemic; secondly, because of the intensity and virulence of the pandemic and, finally, because of the crystallisation of some of the major risks that threatened a rapid recovery. The crisis of the coronavirus struck Spain at the worst possible moment, when they had not yet healed the wounds caused by the crisis of the great recession, and the arrival of Pedro Sánchez did not come but to accelerate the economic decline; moreover, there were many data that placed us in the foreground of a new recession. At the time, Nadia Calviño said that of: No one sees a crisis in the short term. It would be the precedent of what would come next: The epidemic will have an unsignificant and transitory impact. The recovery will be in the form of V; there is no precedent in the recent economic history of Spain for such a rapid recovery of activity and employment. That's what he said. Ladies and gentlemen, today we all know that the magnitude of the disturbance caused by the crisis was very high, with a fall of 10.8% of our gross domestic product and its duration very long. Not in vain, our economy is the most backward in Europe in the recovery of the pandemic. The government is trying to sell as a success what was a real failure, because you have failed in the most important thing, that it was to keep our productive fabric alive. Spain destroys jobs at a rate ten times higher than the European Union; we have one in three jobs destroyed in Europe, unfortunately, and despite the triumphalism of its Government, the data on employment developments are toddlers, still showing a huge deterioration in the productive fabric. As the EPA showed last week and as the data on unemployment and membership again show this morning, we have more public employment, yes, 175,000 more than before the epidemic, but fewer companies and fewer private effective jobs, 66 000 and 17,000 fewer, respectively; that is tragic. The State is generating an expulsion effect from the private sector, which is the real engine of economic growth and it is the one that costs and makes it possible for the public sector, something that its left-wing members never know if they do not understand or want to understand. In any case, the effect is the same. The balance sheet shows a serious deterioration in our productive fabric and in these dramatic circumstances, Minister, it was justified to make a historic effort. Spain deserved more, much more than this meaningless expense festival by taxpayers. Spain deserves a government that stops asking the Spanish for efforts and starts making an effort for the Spanish. Spain deserves a government that reviews all expenditure items one by one from all ministries, state secretariats, observatories, public enterprises, foundations, general directorates, area directorates and negotiating heads. Spain deserves a government with the capacity and strong political conviction necessary to carry out itself an audit of expenditure, along with a review of procedures and justification of necessity. Spain deserves a government capable and prepared to make budgets on a zero basis, completely redesigned the Public Service, applying efficiency criteria, looking for best practices in public policies within and outside our country. And all this with one single objective in mind, not to perpetuate the functions that the Executive exercises because yes, but to become a greased, productive and efficient machinery at the service of the citizen, to move from being a burden to being a factor of competitiveness. Spain deserves a government that acts as a launcher for an entire country that struggles to work, to grow, to produce, to export, to attract tourism and investment, to improve, but instead Spain has you. Never did a people with so much potential have such an incapable government or such an embezzlement of its effort. But don't worry, a government of professional, conscious, sensible people will soon arrive, people ready to relaunch Spain; a government of VOX will soon arrive. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt at this stage that the main economic risk facing Spain is the government of Pedro Sánchez, but it is not the only risk. The level of uncertainty remains high, the great risks that threatened the recovery a few months ago are being realized: the depletion of raw materials and intermediate goods, the constant increase in energy prices, inflationary tensions, the slowing down of credit and the threat of stagnation, which we have never talked about enough. Ignoring those risks or minimizing them, Minister, would be a serious irresponsibility. I do not wish to fail to mention some of those I consider most relevant. The evolution of the behaviour of macroeconomic variables is much worse than the triumphalism in which the Government has been installed could be assumed and completely undermined. On its own, the national accounts data we met on Friday are already an amendment to all these budgets: they consolidate the disaster. In terms of the percentage of GDP, Spain fell more and above rebounds less than set out in the Government's forecasts. Consumption does not stop starting; the latest data show household consumption in negative. Foreign investment fell sharply; in the first half of the year it saw a drop of 45% over the same period before the pandemic. And the behaviour of key sectors, such as industry, is leaving itself out of recovery when, precisely, it should be one of its peaks. Let us not close our eyes to reality; we live in times of historically low interest rates. Any movement of the ups and downs, as we have already warned in the previous debate, will force great sacrifices to our people. Therefore, it is necessary to clean up the accounts before it is too late, because interest rate increases are already on the horizon. As far as we are concerned, the 10-year bonus has already risen half a point, however much you continue to insist on the temporary causes of inflation. The levels of public debt on gross domestic product, which, according to the excessive deficit protocol, closed over 122% in the second quarter, put us in a situation of extreme vulnerability, Minister. We already pay - see - for debt service 20% more than for all staff serving the General Administration of the State and Social Security. Do you realize the risk that this poses? Your Honor, recovery is not done; on the contrary, these threats are very true, the risks are latent. We know that we will be more indebted than ever and that we will have to address profound changes that will ensure employment growth and the maintenance of public services. Therefore, these budgets are so irresponsible, so extemporary and so sectarian, because they lead us to ruin. The Government is resubmitting to this House fundamental budgets and unrealistic economic estimates that directly turn them into wet paper, and this is not the first time. You all recall that the first accounts of Pedro Sánchez, the budgets of 2021, were drawn up on an estimate of real GDP growth of 9.8%. VOX has already warned of the risks associated with the lack of prudence in the estimates. Four months after the approval of those budgets, the Government itself revised its growth downwards to 6.5%. Today it maintains it, despite the fact that the main services of studies preview on average an increase for the current year of 5.5%, so Spain will end growing in the year 2021 half - half - of what you projected last year, a deviation equivalent to two good years of economic growth. The budgets for the year 2022, therefore, are already being touched. They are based on outdated economic forecasts and it is that, in order to avoid adjusting to reality, the macroeconomic picture was presented hours before the strong decline in gross domestic product growth was approved in the second quarter observed by the National Statistical Institute. Since then, all agencies have corrected their estimates. The IMF, the Bank of Spain, the AIReF, the BBVA Research, CaixaBank, JP Morgan, the General Council of Economists, have all corrected the government, reviewing significantly downwards, up to 2 percentage points, the triumphalist forecasts of this government. But Pedro Sánchez's government doesn't. You have ruled out reviewing your macroeconomic forecasts by striking a new blow to the credibility of our public accounts, public accounts that were already in deficit in 2008. You know who ruled, don't you? You guys. Since then we have chained public deficit every year. In 2020, the European Union's largest public deficit, with an 11 % gap, and the government itself, in your view, considered: "We estimate that by 2021 we will still be above 8 %. This is simply unsustainable. It means we're leaving a serious problem to our young people... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u55	... and this is a serious issue, serious enough to open a parenthesis in this intervention and direct me to them, to the young Spaniards. And I turn to our young people to ask them to become aware of what is going on, because no one deals with speaking to them clearly. Our young people are trying to hate, lowering the level of their education; they are trying to reduce their expectations; they are trying to stun themselves with sterile debates about the legalization of drugs, and they are trying to distract them with a check of 400 euros for what their leaders believe is culture. Dear young people, the deficit, which is the amount your politicians, your leaders, spend above what they enter, is a threat to you. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u56	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u57	This is the truth. Your rulers are ruining your future because they're leaving unpaid bills waiting for those who come after them to pay, and that's you. Mathematics does not deceive, systematically spend more than one has. Today's deficit generates and accumulates a debt to be paid tomorrow and if that debt is very high, it leads directly to ruin. Rebellion! Require your responsible political rulers! Demand the truth! The nation of which you are a party is an alliance between the living, the dead and those who are yet to be born, but there will be no future for you or your children if we continue this way. Look, in 2007, at Zapatero's time, Spain's debt weight represented 35% of Spain's gross domestic product, of all that we produce in Spain over the course of a year. Zapatero raised that rate irresponsibly, doubling to 70% in just four years. And he knows better than anyone what it means to lose sovereignty for a government, since his creditors, those to whom he owed that money, called him to tell him the cuts he had to introduce into our economy if he wanted to continue receiving their funding. And he obeyed, which today seems that the Socialist Party forgets. They obeyed and applied the worst cuts in the history of our democracy! [[Applauds]] And then Rajoy came and raised our debt even further, to over 100% of our GDP in just three years. And this year, with Sánchez, we have reached 125% of our gross domestic product, the highest figure since 1881. Unsustainable! For months now, the AIReF, the Banco de España and the VOX Parliamentary Group have been calling for a change, a medium-term fiscal strategy that realistically and crediblely guarantees the financial sustainability of public accounts. But it is also required by the law! Article 22 of the Organic Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability is very clear, but in these budgets and with this Government there is no plan, no concrete measure to contain the imbalance in the public accounts. You have lost the holy fear of deficit. The presentation of these budgets would have been a great time to bring forward that rebalancing plan and strengthen the credibility of our public accounts, but you did all the correction of the deficit to uncertain economic growth. Once again, they have chosen to obviate that money does not grow in trees and continue to increase spending as if there was no tomorrow. But we know for sure that tomorrow if he comes, and he comes with an outstanding bill. That is the problem, and you pass it on to the Spaniards of the future, to the young people, and that is why you have to worry and you have to start demanding more responsible rulers, because your future, ladies and gentlemen, is at stake. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, at the time when the 2021 budgets were presented, when the impact and duration of the second wave was still unknown, when more than 700,000 people were still in ERTE, when much of the perimeter closures and compulsory closures were still in effect, when no one had yet received the first vaccine, you presented to Congress the most expansive accounts of history, with a historical expenditure of more than 45 billion euros, but, yes, you do not eliminate one of the twenty-two ministries that make up the most expensive government in history. You didn't hesitate to raise your wages! They did not hesitate to renew the official cars worth 100 million euros! And you said this morning, Minister, that we are in a new era, that there is a new paradigm. That's what he said. Well, who would say, because this paradigm looks a lot like last year's paradigm! This year, when much of the extraordinary aid launched during the epidemic has disappeared, when the incidence of the virus has been drastically reduced, when more than half a million people have left the ERTE, when closures and confinements have been lifted, some of them declared illegal by the Constitutional Court thanks to the use of VOX, when the expenditure on unemployment has fallen sharply, under all these harsh circumstances, you present a new record of public expenditure, which increases the total expenditure on non-financial operations by more than EUR 10.5 billion. [[applause]] So it doesn't matter whether Spain is entering or emerging from the epidemic, because the paradigm is the same: you always spend more money on the taxpayer than ever before. You also said, Minister, this morning, that these are budgets that put the Spaniards at the centre. And it's true! Put them in the center of the target! Because it is they who will continue to pay their public spending feast! This is a growth in excessive, unsustainable, structural spending, which will generate a slab for growth and employment in the medium and long term. Madam Minister, there are people out there having a bad, bad time. And yes, we came here to represent them, to give voice to those who have no voice, to say enough, to denounce the immorality that supposes that with their money the welfare state of politicians, the caste, today reinforced by those who previously denounced the caste, will continue to be financed. The epidemic and its negligent management have greatly damaged the economy of millions of households. Since 2018, people in extreme poverty have been shot at 50%. The 3.3 million unemployed are joined by those who do not yet know whether their ERTE will become an ERE. The crisis leaves one in four companies in insolvency, between life and business death, Minister. But it doesn't matter to you, you in these budgets continue to hold each and every one of the twenty-two ministries; there have never been more ministers, and secretaries of state, directors-general, chiefs of cabinet, and never better paid, because yes, you refused to raise the salary to senators and deputies, but you again raise the salary, you who in some control session have not even been present six of the twenty-two ministers. They don't care! You continue to increase credit at the start of trusted staff. The government of the PSOE and of the Marxists of Podemos has fired 45% the number of advisors elected by finger and there are already more than 1200 advisors elected by finger, worth 65 million euros, Your Honor. You do not rule for the people, but without the people, you have brought the entire people to rule and to bring in their trusted staff. But how many people do you know? How much trust and on how many charges! [[Applauds]] And socialists and pompites alike, because once again with Podemos it is fulfilled that 'a little pasta is enough for you to become part of the caste' and continue to reinforce everything that allows you to influence with the money of others. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] First, media influence. For example, in Spanish Radio-television, with less audience than ever before, they consolidate a 29% higher expenditure than in 2019. Advertising spending continues to rise, with the advertising and institutional communication plan reaching €123 million by 2021, 86% more than the previous year. And also electoral influence, minister. The contempt to which you have been led by the CIS, in the hands of Mr Tezanos, is unacceptable, but, far from punishing him, you reward him. Its budgets increase the budget allocation of the CIS by 21%; in total, 37% in two years no longer conceal. And since they do not hide, when it comes to paying political tolls to secure the support of these budgets they are buying the support of the various groups, and in the end, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is that the support for Pedro Sánchez is coming out a little expensive to the Spaniards. That is indeed - in your words, again this morning - the values and the commitment for which the President obtained the support of this House. Those values and commitment, that political price has been really high. There are the pardons, there is the incorporation, as Pablo Iglesias said, of Bildu to the leadership of the State or the beginning of the breakup of the single Social Security box, which required the PNV. But the price these budgets pay is no less. Pedro Sánchez has not hesitated to reward the regions and communities governed by parties whose votes he needs, punishing those who do not support him. These budgets, therefore, increase the inequality between the Spanish. Catalonia is again the region that receives the most investments, 2430 million euros, 19% more. I am glad for them, but you mistreat the Madridns and the Andalusians, Mrs Montero, the Andalusians! You're not going to the election, are you? [[Applauds]] I repeat, to the Andalusians, to save the alliances of Pedro Sánchez. You include a record Basque quota, despite the transfer of transfers. No one points out, by the way, that the Basque Country and Navarre do not contribute to the share that they should pay for the transfer of the 40 billion euros that these budgets allocate to Social Security, because, of course, Basques and Navarra do receive the pensions of the State, but they do not pay their proportional share of that transfer. Finally, you greatly increase the resources for communist ministers, ministers and'ministers', 'communists', 'communists' of the government, those who hold the most useless and unnecessary roads, portfolios without competence, with incompetent ministers, but very expensive, eh? We're getting very expensive. In these two years they have doubled the budget of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, which has gone from 2250 million euros, to 4600 euros; let it not be for expenditure. In addition, EUR 6 million in an animal rights programme; it is not bad. Mr Castells's Mystery of Universities has increased its budget by 81%, although everyone knows that the role of Universities, their competence, is transferred to the communities. The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which has no use either, because it also has transferred its competence, is raising its budget no less than 46% this year. It's the reward for not leaving any sector unattained. First, tourism; then, agri-food through meat, and now again agri-food with sweets, ice cream, chocolates and juices. All the productive sectors that help pay the Minister's salary, attacked by the Puemite Minister; does not leave one. In two years, the Ministry of Equality has tripled its budget, exceeding €500 million. With these funds, they are not just financing the gender chiringuitos, they are also hiring as advisers all the convicted and accused who are being generated in the ranks of Podemos. The General Service staff costs rise from Euro3.5 million in 2021 to Euro7.7 million in 2022. And, Your Honor, as that ministry continues to serve as a refuge for all the disabled of Podemos, beware, for this may be a bottomless well. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, if something is teaching us this government is that spending, spending and spending at the expense of taxpayers does not solve the main problems of the Spanish people. The Government of propaganda does not deceive us with an increase in housing spending accompanied by an unprecedented attack on private property; an attack that, at the same time, will drive away investment, exacerbate rent shortages and raise prices. The Government of propaganda does not deceive us when it triggers expenditure on pensions without accompanying it with measures to guarantee its stability. Endorsing the deficit of the State is not a solution. We are getting into a spiral, Your Honor, from which we will only get out when we face the real dichotomy we have: autonomy or pensions. Unfortunately, we are not a country rich enough to afford us both at once. The Government of propaganda does not deceive us when it says that it spends more on education to, in fact, lower the quality of education and to devote itself to teaching identity diversity and multiple identities, encouraging estultice and condemning a generation of young people to ignorance. The propaganda government does not deceive us when it talks about investing in productivity while condemning hundreds of companies to cut their production with an energy policy that makes us pay for light 150% more than in France and 46% more than in Germany. Madam Minister, you said this morning that these accounts are a lever for modernising the productive fabric. Perhaps, but only in a schumpeterian reading of the life of creative destruction, because along the way we are going, Minister, you are going to get rid of all the productive fabric in an absolutely destructive way. The early Spain, the Spaniards who earn bread day by day, who religiously pay their taxes and who manage their family economy as they can, do not deserve politicians to squander their heritage. Once again, when it came to choosing between the State of welfare or the welfare of the State, you have chosen that the Spaniards continue to pay their feast without scruples. In two years you haven't found any superfluous spending that you can spare to orient resources towards the most important items, but - we must admit - you didn't lack imagination to find new tax figures with which to stifle taxpayers at the worst possible time. You denied it to me, Minister, not one or two or three, but four times in parliamentary office. Do you remember? We're not going to raise taxes to the middle and working class. That's what you said and today you said it again in the morning. But the truth is that you have ended up approving the biggest tax hikes in many years and, moreover, at the time when the Spaniards needed more liquidity. You say no. Look, you raised the IRPF, corporation tax, property, introduced the Tobin tax, Google tax, plastic tax, created a new waste tax, raised the VAT on sugar drinks, increased the tax on insurance premiums, penalized the savings by reducing the deductions applicable to pension plans and, as always, most of the tax increase fell on the average and low incomes you said you weren't going to tax them with more taxes. Tell me now you haven't! [[Applauds]] And, as always, these new taxes have turned out to be a fiasco from the point of view of the collection, because none has fulfilled their forecast of revenue generation, although all have contributed to impoverishment of the Spaniards. Minister, you could have rectified and you could have eliminated tax increases by making Spain cease to be the only country in Europe that has raised taxes, but, instead, you bring us a twist on taxpayers. Vehicle registrations are experiencing two-digit declines in a country producing cars, ladies and gentlemen, the third in Europe and the first in diesel, but you do not care. In January, an increase in the registration tax will come into force which will increase the purchase of new vehicles between 500 and 1200 euros. Contributions to private pension schemes fell by 80 per cent over the same period of the previous year, but the government also seems to be doing the same, re-punishing them with a further cut in deductions. And it punishes the Spaniards by raising up to 80% the valuation of the properties for the calculation of the inheritance tax and donations, wealth and ITP from the year 2022. The price of electricity is already set at 300 % and causes industry to stop and deep concern in Spanish households, but you use it to collect more taxes and even admit that the tax revenues that will rise the most are precisely those derived from the electricity tax. The self-employed are struggling to keep their businesses afloat, but you, well installed in your official offices, are once again raising quotas, and Minister Escriva has already announced an increase in contributions to companies and workers when it is logical to do exactly the opposite. Didn't you say this morning that you wanted more decent wages and, at the same time, more competitiveness in our businesses? Well, look, there's only one way to do both things at once, which is precisely by lowering social contributions and not raising them, which you haven't had the capacity to lower not a single tax and not a single cost to the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Minister, wealth creation, investment attraction and job creation require a favourable framework that does not stifle the talent and creativity of the Spaniards. The path you have chosen to get out of the major economic crisis will only bring us more unemployment and ruin. A few days ago the Italian Government sent Brussels a plan for 2022 with a tax reduction of 8 billion; in the meantime, Pedro Sánchez committed himself to an increase equivalent to ten times that amount. A fiscal revolution that will trigger fiscal pressure, drive away investment and ultimately reduce collection. We may be in a new era but there is no doubt that the paradigm of the left is always the same: more taxes and more spending at the expense of the Spaniards. Your Honor, these budgets devote more than 550 pages to justifying their alignment with the 2030 Agenda but do not address the interests of Spain and the Spanish. I'm done. But there are reasons for hope for the future. This government will pass, it will pass soon, and we are in time to recover Spain because there is already an alternative, an alternative that will once again make Spain owner of its destiny, with healthy accounts and manageable levels of debt; an alternative that will restore credibility to our country and make it attractive to investment, with low taxes and free of superfluous burdens, with a modern, efficient and facilitative administration of economic activity; an alternative that supports its industry, that invents and manufactures, that makes its products synonymous with quality and that makes Made in Spain a guarantee of excellence; an alternative of a green Spain that converts the deserted areas into forests and irrigated lands and that ensures that the water is everyone's and that reaches all corners of the country; an alternative that prioritizes employment, that leads us from the tax world of unemployment to paradise and integrates millions of Spaniards into the labour market; an alternative that makes its young people aware, that offers its children an excellent and demanding education - yes, because it is the best way of its economy, of its economy, of its economy, of its economy, of its economy, of its economy, of economy, of the best value.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u58	Mr Espinosa, you have to finish now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u59	Well, it's over. Spain is still our great asset. Spain is alive and, with the right government, will turn to what you are tearing apart. That is why we lack a little more than we would like but much less than you believe and, in the meantime, Spain will resist, even with difficulties, the enormous damage that the worst possible government is inflicting on it at the worst possible time. Spain will resist despite all of you, committed to destroying it. Don't doubt it. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. I listened to you carefully, Mr Espinosa, and I was thinking about it. What is important is not what I have to say to you about what you have raised, but also. What I was questioning while I was in the seat was that one can only come to a conclusion after listening to your speech, Mr Espinosa, and also to a conclusion shared with the People's Party bench. I would say that very loudly and very clearly, because it seems to me that it is the most important thing that has to remain after the debate with you. You will see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that the far right is not being fought; the far right is being fought. [[Applauds]] The far right has to be dismantled. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u63	We must put on top of the table - no matter how tedious it may seem - all the arguments that can be put forward, because the game in which they participate only weakens democratic coexistence, damages the public space that with so much work we have created and undermines the social and legal state. After hearing this, I sincerely believe, Mr Espinosa, that you are challenging the system; you are fighting for this democratic system. You do not share the rules of play or the elements, because you, according to your words, despise politics. And I wonder, if for you politics and politicians are something so inevitable, so bad and so disastrous for the future of the country, what do your ladies and gentlemen all sit as deputies in this Congress? [[Applauds]] Because, in your opinion, Mr Espinosa, politics is the worst. After listening to him in the rostrum, it is what emerges from his words, and I find it very difficult to make a debate where one does not share anything and where, in fact, we have to dismantle issues that we all thought were overcome; we thought that in one way or another all those nostalgias that you distill every time you came up to this rostrum had definitely been left behind. The problem for me, Your Honor, is not that the far right is emboldened. There is a kind of speech that you are making here without any kind of repair, without any kind of blush, something that barely ten years ago we would not have heard from a democratic rostrum of this Congress of Deputies. But the problem for me is not just that, which already is, the problem is that you mark the People's Party agenda and do it by following the book on foot together. Furthermore, the People's Party is following it because it believes that this is going to go better in its electoral interests and, Mr. Married, it is wrong. And not only is he mistaken from the leadership of his party, but he also does a weak favor to society as a whole and to the country as a whole, because, I insist, they are not agreed; they are simply fought against. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u64	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u65	Besides, you used to hide and now you hardly hide. The bad news is that those hate messages have an impact on the street, they have an impact on everyday life. I think some people suffer in the first person and I don't take it as a joke. I think we must always be alert to those who have that nostalgia of the past and who always dream of returning to it. That is why I think it is important to make an appeal from here - as Mr Espinosa has tried to do - not to take a step back in the conquest of the rights and freedoms of citizens. We have to denounce without getting tired of every behavior of hatred, every insult, every aggression and every attack on the press. Because this sectarianism is not only overcome by laws, which also, or by individual attitudes of rejection, which also, it is overcome by making it very clear that they do not have the majority of citizens, who want to live well, live better and, obviously, reject everything that represents self-exclusion or everything that represents leaving behind those who do not like us or those who are most vulnerable. There is sectarianism and intolerance in those words, Mr Espinosa, and I am sorry. In addition, I tell you that this kind of discourse and intolerance must count on the overwhelming rejection of society as a whole. People are telling you on the street, the media say, we discuss it every time we go up to this rostrum and you ask us. Enough hate speech! We are all in this country and we have decided to live together in peace. That's enough! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] You have made a speech here, in the rostrum, from which it appears that the ultra-right wants citizens to move away from politics. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u66	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u67	That has been the fundamental reason for his speech: that citizens do not participate in political life. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u68	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u69	You have played with directly false data to paint it all black, or perhaps you should say better brown, and therefore not to recognize the data, than snoozidos; the facts, which demonstrate the progress of our country, probably because you do not want to see them, Mr Espinosa, and it doesn't matter how often I repeat in this rostrum the data I gave to Mr Married in my speech. I won't do it because I don't tire your lordships out. .. [[Rumors.-A Member of the House: Thank you.]] That's it. Not at all to all of you, I see what interests you in this debate and what interests you in the well-being that the draft budgets bring to people. You want to impose a catastrophic vision, a negative vision above all, everything seems wrong, everything seems to you a disaster, a threat, you prefer clearer rules in that nostalgic world to which you so often allude, where the powerful make and undo their desire, where those who think differently are an enemy to which we must overthrow and where those who least have not only do not have to recognize their rights, but must give them charity, at best. Hence his proposal, which is practically a cancellation of taxation; without taxation there are no public services. According to you, the money where it is best is in the pocket of the citizens and, therefore, the policy of saving who can. [[applause]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u70	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u71	May you applaud the policy of saving anyone who can say everything about what values this group is alighting in this House. [[Applauds]] That is the law of the strongest; the law of the jungle and, therefore, lordship, are in the antipodes of what means a strong democracy, a balanced or just society, or a redistribution of wealth; all these concepts are that they don't even sound, directly give them grin. But the uncertain future does not mean that we have to cling to the past, and less to a past as dark as you yearn for. In that retreat, Your Honor, I tell you that there is no solution. But with his speech Mr Espinosa wants to capture those who feel vulnerable to the future. That's what you've intended to do here in this rostrum, isn't it? But, Your Honor, you are faced with the small problem that this Government is here to demonstrate that politics is useful for the social majority of our country, that there is a future if we build it among all and that it is possible, of course, to change things. And you know that these budgets are a brake on those aspirations you have. You would like austerity to return to excess - in that you look like the People's Party - and there would be no room for a just recovery. They are wrong in these precepts and that angers them on many occasions. That's why they ask to adjust, reduce public spending, because they know that recovery is a brake on their ambitions. Your broth of cultivation, ladies and gentlemen, is the despair of people who have difficulty getting out of the tunnel, who have difficulty seeing beyond what the present presents to you. And perhaps you will be able to seduce at a certain moment a few disenchanted and a few who may be inflamed, but I want to tell all these people that you represent nothing. In other words, you represent the return to a past that, fortunately, democracy has definitely left behind, Mr Espinosa. [[Applauds]] During your speech, Mr Espinosa, you have only transferred pills, sketches of data that are false. Then you spread them among your followers. You have become experts in handling data, statistics or reports. Sometimes you can't even recognize the figures because they don't correspond to reality; I don't know what you're talking about when you use indicators that aren't the ones that the independent agencies publish or are the ones that are available to the majority of citizens. Other times you invent the data directly, as if by force of repeating it it could be silenced and, therefore, it could become reality; by the way, a fairly old trick that does not work in politics. And all this, Your Honor, drawing a nightly ideology that resounds xenophobia, intolerance, machism and centralism. That is why the progressive forces of this country will never tire of disassembling one by one all the lies and all the infamies that they move. For example, Your Honor, lies about false allegations of gender-based violence. This is a classic that you constantly try to transmit to the outside world with videos, conforms, with publications, as if the complaints of gender-based violence were lies or inventions that we are looking for women, I don't know very well for what purpose, according to your theory. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u73	I will give you a fact: according to the memory of the Prosecutor's Office, in the last year there was no conviction for false denunciation. None! And do you know how many complaints there were? 168,057 complaints were filed by women. None of those allegations were false. It is enough, Mr Espinosa, to say that women report without being assaulted! [[Applauds]] You know that the number of police officers has just increased since Mr. Sánchez ruled. We've incorporated 10,000 troops between police and civilian guards. In this first quarter of 2021 - I would also like to remind you - the crime rate was the lowest in the historical series; in particular, thefts were reduced by 38.3%, house thefts by 32%; vehicle theft by 30%, and all are data compared to 2019. You lie without blush when you talk, Mr Espinosa, about unaccompanied immigrant minors because it links immigration with insecurity; you lie by saying that you take away public services, you lie with pensions and unemployment data. They also lie when they try to link these budgets to concessions to terrorists. The accusations you make, Mr Espinosa, are extraordinarily serious, and they also demonstrate the low moral level you have, because the pain and suffering of the victims cannot be used to bring out even a peak of political performance, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] It seems that you too have nostalgia for that past and demonstrates an infinite hypocrisy in your words, Mr Espinosa, because your leader of ranks - now he is not, but before he was - Mr Abascal was president of New Generations of the People's Party and, as I know, he never said anything about what Aznar offered to the terrorist gang. Remember? Forgiveness and generosity - Mr Aznar said - if he renounced arms, and that Congress unanimously urges the Government to prison flexibility. This is what his leader, Mr. Abascal, shared during Mr. Aznar's governments. Besides, I'll remind you of something else. Do you remember that Mr. Abascal was a councillor of the PP in Llodio in 1999? If not, I tell you, he was a councillor of the People's Party; he was still active ETA. And Mr Abascal supported a motion calling for: to complete the effective implementation, in the shortest possible time, of a new consensual, dynamic and flexible prison orientation, consistent with the end of violence. That's what Mr. Abascal said in 1999. [[Applauds]] Also his fellow banker, Mr Gil Lázaro, active the band, in the same year, defended in this Congress - there is the Diario de Sesiones -: For peace, President Aznar has promoted an important set of initiatives; initiatives as deep-rooted - he continued - as the authorization of exploratory contacts with ETA, the opening of ways of return for those who do not have pending causes, the transfer to the Peninsula of prisoners who are outside of it or the recent decision - he said - of approach to prisons in the Basque Country or its surroundings of a very large number of prisoners etarras. Journal of Sessions, reply of Mr. Gil Lazarus in this rostrum. [[Applauds]] And now, ten years later, when Spanish democracy is already celebrating the end of the sin-ration of terror, you prefer to resurrect in a permanent attempt to delegitimize the government. And that, ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, is the worst. You seek to take advantage of the discomfort and confront social groups, which without that false confrontation would not even listen to you. You know that many of the critical issues are supporting them in the governments where they are the security key of the People's Party. But I tell you more, Your Honor, it is that you have supported measures and are in a pact with a party that has been the protagonist of the biggest rise in taxes in our democracy. It was the People's Party that raised more than fifty taxes and raised 30 billion euros, those you embrace - or they embrace you; so mount, so mount - and those you are able to support in the governments of the autonomous communities that they preside over. [[Rumors]] You live from the shock, you seek confrontation, you take advantage of...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u74	Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your silence, please. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u75	Thank you, President. He said you're looking for confrontation, you don't care about who, and you make up whatever you have to make up, no matter what. They seek to confront men against women; rural versus urban; youth versus the adult world; workers against immigrants. [[Rumors]] In short, ladies and gentlemen, they seek social conflict so that, from the conflict, their ideas have a better breeding stock. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that the five-year-olds of Spanish democracy are not the migrants, as you recommend, you, the most extreme right-wing race, those who defend what we believed to be surpassed at this time. [[applause]] They try to convince those you call losers of globalization, they try to tell them that everything is decadent and that the answer to so much uncertainty is to retreat into identity and nationalism. That's what you preach. But here the only thing decadent, ladies and gentlemen, is you and your speeches. Doing politics from hatred will serve no purpose because, fortunately, the vast majority of Spaniards look to the future with hope and not with resentment. And yours are empty slogans. He's shown it again in this rostrum. They do not have a single solution to the uncertainties and challenges ahead, only slogans and hollow rhetoric that do not solve complex problems. They don't come to contribute anything, they don't want to contribute anything, just try to take advantage of those who are having a bad time. And that's why they don't like these accounts and these budgets, because they know that they are an antidote for those who can be guided by a song of sirens, which are a vaccine against totalitarianism, Mr Espinosa, so you don't like these public accounts. Because with these accounts young people earn 12,550 million, almost twice as much as budgeted in 2021. The young people of our country, those who are being trained with vocational training, with an education that exceeds EUR 5 billion - those scholarships that allow families who do not have the resources to enable their children to jump on the social ladder and also to make progress - are the ones who win with this budget. The scholarships, Your Honor, reach 2199 million. Do you know how many people are going to benefit? For 800,000 students, who would not be able to study if you ruled because directly there would be no scholarship policy. [[Applauds]] And it must be recognized that in this of education they are being a little sibilian. I do not know how you would qualify yourself, I prefer not to use those adjectives, but I say to you that you are a little sybilian, because your position on social spending has always been to classify it as a waste and, now, in recent weeks, you are launching the message that you want free for all stages of education; in fact, Mrs Monastery has demanded it in the Community of Madrid. And, of course, some may stay in the headlines, but those we're surprised that you're going to bet on the public, that you're going to want free provision of services, we put a little bit beyond the look and we see, not surprising in that sense, that what you're looking for is that you're funding private centers with public funds; what you're looking for is that with money from citizens' collections you're financing private centers, educational centers, 0 to 3 year old centers or any other incorporation that can be made in the provision of public services. That is, that VOX's position is very clear: if social spending goes to the private, then you give up and share it; if social spending stays in the public, it is a waste and it is a waste. You have it very clearly and I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that you say it with that clarity. [[Applauds]] It's about Andalusia, Your Honor. You talk about Andalusia, but be clear about what you want to do with Andalusian budgets, because you go with one lime and one sand depending on the day. I hope that the People's Party will take Mr Sword's hand so that it can support these budgets and leave them. [[Applauds]] No, no, don't applaud yourself because if you don't want to support budgets, look at what you trust in your political formation. But, from there, I am sure that these budgets will bet on Andalusia in a very important way! You have not said, for example, that this budget complies with the Statute of Andalusian Autonomy. You have not said, for example, that this budget envisages that the autonomous community with the largest investment will be Andalusia. You hide the budget figures for Andalusia simply because you don't care. And there are other things they don't like about the budget. Young rental vouchers don't like anything, do they? At least this is what they have said; they do not seem to want to facilitate emancipation or access to housing, when it comes to direct aid of EUR 250 per month for two years for young wage earners under 35 years of age and with low pay. They didn't like the cultural bonus either. Or do you like it if it incorporates bullfighting and if it doesn't, then we're trying to buy young people? Because you have been heard saying one thing and proposing the opposite; in fact, in some places you have proposed or supported the proposal of the People's Party - which you now say is to buy votes - of a cultural bonus, but, yes, incorporating the bullfighting because it is not about what the cultural bonus does, which is the promotion of culture, but about defending those interests where you are most comfortable. It has happened in Castile and León, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, in case you do not remember where you have shared this. Do you really think that young people are fools and let themselves be bought? Do you not think that we have the best prepared generation in our history, the generation that has the most criterion to know what interests you, what suits you, the one that has the best opportunities to occupy worthy positions in the labour market? Do you think that you are people who have no critical sense and who are allowed to buy by measures that arise in a program or in a budget? You have no idea what young people think. As far as vocational training or equal opportunities are concerned, you are annoyed by parties aimed at combating discrimination against women or parties seeking equality or directly combating gender-based violence. I wonder, Mr Espinosa, what's wrong with you women. They're constantly denying the reality that we live thousands of women in this country and outside this country, and some of their roommates get upset, I don't understand why. Your ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the women of VOX, should be the first to be interested in ensuring that equality of opportunity is a priority in this country on the basis that it brings them; Mrs Olona, on the basis that she brings them, in order to coexist in that space that you share with your colleagues, should be the first to be interested in this issue. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, pensioners earn, public employees earn - the re-evaluation of civil servants' salaries I have already told you this morning - we have approved 30 445 places in the public offer of employment, we dedicate more money, 31 million, for training in employment in the public sector as a whole, 40 billion investment for SMEs, self-employed and enterprises, 1500 million in grants programmes for transformation and digitisation, 11 300 million for reindustrialisation, we are betting on science with 13 300 million in a record line that has never been recorded before. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are betting on what allows us to be better, such as science, which is the one that disassembles all those false myths, that terraples, climate negationism, all that you show. We all win with these budgets, and of course they bother you with the accounts, because you do not share a strong social state, do not share the autonomous model, especially in those services on which the welfare state rests. You believe that the accounts do not have to be used to reinforce that security guarantee for citizens. In short, you do not share any of the elements of the alliance that citizens have to try, in the basics at least, that the pocket is not a problem with health, education or dependence. You are against 6 billion more for the National Health System, you are against transferring more resources for education, or you are against 22 billion to protect unemployed people, against the interprofessional minimum wage, against the ERTE increases, against the increase in the regulatory base from 50 to 70%, against the extension of paternity and maternity leave. You are against everything that, above all, means progress: minimum living income, thermal social bonus, care economy, all that counts with the negative vote by VOX. You have again touched upon some argument that Mr Casado has used and I refer you to the explanations that I have given to him. With regard to the collection and employment data that we have recorded in October, you are so annoyed because, of course, you are antithesis to the precepts that you are promulgating regarding austerity or that this Government is not channelling economic recovery. After your speech, I just have to say that it is clear to me that you do not like these budgets. That is clear to me, but not because of any of the barbarities or the issues he has said. [[Rumors]] These Budgets do not like because they fight the social unrest on which the far right wants to grow, it is the only truth that hides behind the words of Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we will agree on the approval of these accounts. I'm going to tell you something that I think is important and I want to lead you to your reflection. You see, Your Honor, social malaise is not corrected with more identity, social malaise is corrected by combating inequality. That is what this Government does and that is what these public accounts do, not with more identity or with more nationalism; that is why that is the road map we are going to follow. [[applause]] Your Honor, you have been pleased to present this amendment as a whole, you have not wanted to see progress in the processing of these public accounts. It is the only political group to which I understand the introduction of the amendment as a whole - I want to say it and I want to acknowledge it - because it was going to be impossible for us to agree on the partial amendments that you tabled. It therefore seems logical for you to present this amendment as a whole. Finally, I would like to tell you that these budgets do not at all resemble that ruin that you are advocating. These are the accounts that Spain needs because they offer more opportunities for all and for all and because they offer more resources; because they look to the future and not, ladies and gentlemen, to that past rancio that they like so much; because they offer hope and confidence in our capacities, especially those of the younger people. That's why, Your Honor, you and we don't look alike. We build a Spain where you fit; you build a Spain where you only fit those who think like you, where you demonize the one who is different by thought, by status or by way of being. [[A Member of Parliament: Gilipollas!]] [[applause.- Rumours]] I would like, Your Honor, when this session is over, please warn your groupmate that he has just said an insult from the seat. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u76	Thank you very much. I call for the withdrawal of what has been said. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: What did she say?]] He will withdraw it from the presidency and I will not repeat what has been said, out of respect for the House. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, it gives me a certain tenderness to hear you speak, because to you this far-right, extreme right, xenophobia, racism has worked for you, has it not? There have been many years where that worked, you used to say the magic word and those on that bench were holding back, shrinking a little bit and passing fear. [[laughs]] But do you know what's going on? It doesn't work with us. [[Applauds]] Haven't you noticed? It doesn't work. This is the party of the brave, is the party of Ortega Lara, is the party of Santiago Abascal, father and son. Here you will not frighten us, Minister, neither today nor ever. [[Applauds]] Yes, it was councilman Mr Abascal with eighteen young men, playing life, minister, for this democracy, which you do not know what it means, going with escort to college. Can you imagine what that is? Not with escort to make the purchase as one of his government colleagues, with escort looking at the bottom of his vehicle every morning and seeing how they killed his colleagues - and by the way, also his -. [[applause]] Do you know what that is? And by the way, also proposing, for example, in 2004 a monolith in tribute to a murdered civilian guard. Do you know why that proposal didn't go ahead at the City Hall of Llodio, where he was a councillor? For the opposition of some parties that are your allies today and for the abstention of whom do you know? The Socialist Party of Euskadi, which is a shame. [[Applauds]] So yes, of course we challenge the whole of your budgets, but of your way of doing politics, Madam Minister, which is absolutely nightly, which is anchored in a world that no longer exists. You are no longer going to infuse fear of the Spanish, let alone the young, who have already overcome that nonsense and those fears of the labels that you are putting on. There will still be people around here who are afraid of us, not us. We have come here to combat all the policies that you are bringing today in these General State Budgets. That is democracy, Minister, in which there is diversity of opinion, not only of gender, identity, religion, race. Diversity of opinion, article 14 Do you know what? The Spanish Constitution. Do you know her? Because so far you have used it only in one sense. [[Applauds]] You, Minister, are not to give electoral strategy advice to anyone. Have you read the latest polls? Not the CIS, who manipulate, the real ones. Have you seen how they're falling? 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. You guys? Have you seen how VOX is going up? I understand that it scares you, because your colloum, Minister, is effectively over, your colloum is over talking about the powerful. But who are the powerful? If the powerful are you, you're in the blue bank with the BOE every day. [[Applauds]] The powerful are the same ones that forty years ago, of course they run out of cabbage. So come here and keep squeezing, as you did today, departure by departure. Hate, insult, aggression, attack, intolerance, gender-based violence. What does that have to do with what I said here in this rostrum? But what does that have to do with the State's General Budgets? But have you not heard anything I have said? You already came with the speech prepared and you don't care what we say. You are playing to ignore the existence and growth not of a party, but of a movement, minister, a movement that has more and more adherents. You say we're nobody. Well, we are more modest and humble than you - that is - and, as we are not yet the first force in this country, we work harder than you. We are much more rigorous, we tread more the street, we have more street than the swings, than you have for years not treading a street, and we have a minimum of four million voters who are growing every day, so keep an eye out, minister. [[Applauds]] Do you know what's going on? That the resistance to the powerful is here and the powerful who are subjugating the Spanish are you. It is true that they need to have more and more poor and dependent because, if not, they run out of cabbage. [[Applauds]] What we want is a more prosperous and richer Spain, growing and less dependent and with less aid because you don't need it and you're on the contrary. You did stay anchored in the last century, but do you know what's going on? That favors us so much. So I have nothing more to say to you but I love your speech. You remain anchored in that imaginary world, in that happy world, thinking that you are cheating on the Spaniards, telling them that things are getting better and better when the queues of hunger are getting longer and longer, telling them that the economy grows when they are not seeing it, telling them that they have not raised taxes when they pay them every day, telling them that the price of light is not their fault when the Spaniards pay it every day. You keep lying to the Spaniards, Minister, that the Spaniards are waking up and, when they wake up everyone, they will realize that it's not that VOX stays alone, it's that only VOX remains. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u79	Mr. Spiny, you've been very angry, haven't you? You know why? [[Laughter]] Because I unmasked him. [[Applauds]] He's been very angry. He's been very angry. You have come up to this rostrum - see - quite annoying, accusing the truths - that is the reality - that I have commented in my speech: To present these budgets as an instrument to combat populism and explain why they fight populism, why we need a strong welfare state, why we have to cure wounds that were opened during the pandemic, why we have to reduce inequalities. That's not good news for you. Probably, those who have the resources of the cradle, Your Honor, do not need the power of the public, do not need the intervention of the public. [[applause]] It's easy to go to those who have less and who are having a bad time from such an empty position, isn't it, Mr. Spinosa? [[Mr Espinosa of the Mounts of Simon: You will know!]] No, no, you'll know, that's the one who said it here, in this rostrum. We are more humble, of course we are; it is that we are part of it. The political formations that make up this government are made up of men and women who have difficulty reaching the end of the month, men and women who would have difficulty if they did not have a strong state that gave them free health and education, by men and women who alone, Mr Espinosa - alone - have the policy to try to transform this country. [[rumors]] [[applause]] Those who have other instruments, those who have resources, who have a social position or who have other issues, move away from politics, they do not want it, they drive it away to continue to rule over the usual ones. That's why, Your Honor, I think you said everything when you went up to the rostrum for the second time. Now they're not a party, you say they're a movement. Fear gives me, fear gives me! What move? [[Applauds]] Because all Spaniards have in memory the National Movement, Your Honor. Come on, it's the most recent move we've ever had. So when you say it like that - it doesn't put a name on it -, it scares me! I believe that the accounts are good to put us at the level that our economy allows for greater growth, accounts that look at rural Spain - which you do not even mention - the agricultural sector, the livestock sector, which is committed to sustainable development. It is the accounts of culture, those that allow greater democracy, those that allow critical thinking, that make it possible for all of us to live together to think what we think. Neither do you like culture because it represents freedom, vanguard or questioning of the issues that are unquestionable to you. It is the accounts of science, I have told you before, but, as you have pointed to the negationist currents, which do not value the evidence, because it doesn't matter to you, you don't care that science can also progress. These are the accounts of international cooperation, and I could go on, Your Honor, reflecting the values that these public accounts contemplate. Your Honor, you have spoken of authoritarianism and I assure you - you have said this - that freedom of expression is not at risk in our country. I have told you before: we build a country where you belong. The problem is that you are building or you want to build a country where no one can think exactly like you, that is different from you. And that's called exclusion, exclusion, honor, and it's called hate speech and that's why I'll tell you again and again. [[applause]] Being different means that. Different thinking means that. There is neither to fight nor attack those who do not think alike. By the way, Your Honor, you've got the wrong constitutional article. The article on freedom of expression I understand is 20, not 14, as you said. The 14th is that of equality, is that you are with the issue of equality... is that the issue of equality...! [[Protests.-Laughter.]] [[Applauds]] And then, Your Honor, you have also begun to talk about some issues. I think you have tried to bring back here that argument that you have used for a time on the cowardly right, because I think you have begun to mess with the People's Party and it would seem that you were saying that these were the cowardly right, that you came here to say in your words what you believed, regardless of whether everyone else thought it was a nostalgia with times that we thought were definitely over. You say that you do it with pride, and I respect it, as you will understand, but you speak again of the cowardly right in relation to what the People's Party may think - not so much separate from you - of some of the issues. Your Honor, you have done something that I do have to answer to, and it seems to me very serious that you have allowed it because you have done it from this rostrum. You see, this government always does what it understands right, looking at the general interest, and has never been carried away by what they will say, it has never cared about that issue. He cares what he does, who he impacts and how we can multiply it. Therefore, for us, our strongest engine is the deep conviction we have in what we believe. And we've been through almost everything! You've seen it during this pandemic. To the volcano of La Palma! From here, as always, a memory to all the people who are having a bad time. We are still standing and, in addition, your honor, taking Spain out of the pandemic, from the economic, social and territorial crisis, and I will not tolerate it insulting the Government or doing so specifically to the parties that make up this Government. Neither the Socialist Party, Your Honor, nor the United Nations We can, because we are parties that have defended rights and freedoms in our country at the cost of our lives. Because we have defended equal opportunities for women as no one else. Because we have signed - in particular, the Socialist Party - the great agreements and the great country pacts, including the fight against terrorism. [[Applauds]] We are a party that has always been behind the constitution of the autonomous pacts, as I told you, of the pacts against barbarism, a party that has been able to unite the Spanish when they have needed it, and a party-when you address the Basque Socialist Party - which has paid with its own blood the defense of democracy. [[Applauds]] They can't say the same thing. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utters words that are not perceived]] No, not as a party, Mr Espinosa, because when I brought you up what your partner, Mr Abascal, and your partner, Mr Gil Lázaro, said in this rostrum or when Mr Abascal was a councillor regarding ETA, you did not have a single argument to justify the words of your colleagues. You know why? Because you're ashamed of what you said. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as much as you strive to bring ETA after ten years that the terrorist gang was overcome by democracy, as much as you continue to attract it once democracy defeated it, no matter how many times you mention it, no matter how many times you say it, the important thing is that parties like those who rule at this time brought peace to this country and were able to build a harmony and coexistence that we are proud of. [[Applauds]] You weren't, ladies and gentlemen. Spain will not allow the ultra-right to be in the government of any democratic institution, this is our goal, we will try to ensure that you do not participate in any government in this country. [[Rumors]] And we will do so as always, by reaching out to the People's Party, as we are doing in Andalusia for the budget pact; we will do so, ladies and gentlemen, trying to combat the broth of cultivation where populisms nest, where authoritarianisms are therefore played out, which make people find hopelessness. We will do so, among them, with general State budgets that bring greater social well-being, which give hope to young people, opportunities for women, prospects for our elderly, defence of the public, in short, everything that builds society. Because, Your Honor, make it clear that you will neither convince nor you will win. You sometimes make the environment in this House irresistible, but much more so for those of you who like to take care of democracy. [[The Lord]] I believe that defending the obvious in this rostrum may seem somewhat barren, but in your case I can assure you that none of the Members of Parliament belonging to the political formations that support this government will ever tire of defending democratic ideas and human rights so that you do not win a single hand in the field, and these accounts are an indispensable instrument for this. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, whose members will defend their amendment or, if necessary, set a position, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor in the first place. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u81	Well, I'll start, just like that. I wish you could all understand how far away from all this we feel the majority of the citizens of Catalonia do not represent us at all. Why have we tabled an amendment in its entirety, Minister? Because they're not good budgets for Catalonia. They are not budgets that respond to the majority demands raised in Catalonia or those raised, also, by the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And because they are budgets that you have not wanted to negotiate. They do not care about the arguments behind these accounts, you said this morning, Minister. What Arguments? Because no one has come to tell us these arguments. This Government has not sat down to negotiate or talk so much as talk about dialogue. To really negotiate, I mean, minister. I find it difficult to understand that you do not see the urgency, you also said this morning. It seems that you have not seen the urgency, Minister, because, if it is so urgent, why have you not taken the negotiation seriously? They have no absolute majority, but they obviously act as if they had it. I will give an example that I think illustrates and summarizes more or less how the thing is between us, between Catalonia and Spain. You explained this morning that you will make a historic investment in culture, encourage reading and also strengthen museums. Since we've heard it, we've been wondering how we're going to strengthen Catalan museums with the real misery of investment foreseen in these budgets. Perhaps you have been wrong; and I am talking about real investment, because you have sent everything to Madrid. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety because we, together, do not give our votes in exchange for anything. Because it is precisely nothing that has been achieved by those who have given you blank checks. Politics is useful, you said. Yes, it is useful, Minister, I agree, but it is useful if you practice it. And it is a pity that it is precisely a part of Catalanism that in exchange for nothing will allow them to continue with this prepotence and with this impunity in view of their lack of commitment, their lack of speech and, also, their lack of respect for Catalonia, Catalanism, Catalonia and what the citizens of Catalonia have voted for. We expected - and I speak very sincerely, Minister - a minimum of concrete proposals on your part, of course; a minimum of prepared work; a minimum of interest in the proposals coming from Catalonia; and a minimum of seriousness, Minister, in the negotiation of general State budgets. We have not found a Government willing to negotiate seriously. In fact, unfortunately, what we have found is a disappointing headline marketing. What has Catalonia achieved by supporting a supposedly progressive government led by the PSOE, by the Socialist Party? You've got a long list of non-compliances, Minister. Virtually everything that has been agreed with you regarding Catalonia has not been fulfilled. And who does it harm if this Spanish Government fails to comply with the agreement reached with Catalonia? Do you harm the Independenceists? Obviously, but it also harms all the citizens who work and live in Catalonia, each and every one of the seven and a half million Catalans. Has the co-management of European funds been achieved, as you committed yourselves? The strengthening, or not strengthening, of Catalan museums is proof to us of this, of this non-management of European funds. No, it didn't. In fact, it was with the support of VOX, with whom you are now both fighting, that you managed to carry forward this royal decree re centralizing the funds. Neither co-management nor decentralization, which is what you have said by presenting and defending these budgets. And the Socialist Party has negotiated with the far right, with the right, as you, Minister, want to say, which political judges are going to be the ones to rule from now on. This has not been negotiated with those who give them stability, it has been negotiated with the right and the right. Therefore, they agree with the far right with one hand and with the other they come to us with the tale of the wolf coming!, or that the far right fights, which is what you said a while ago. About the català, we all know that no Spanish law is going to shield the Catalan. In fact, no Spanish law has ever shielded the català. I'll tell you something, Minister. In 2005, while working on the audiovisual law at the time, we read the following headline in many media: PSOE and Esquerra agree that all films exhibited in Spain will be doubled, all by law, to Catalan. It was the armor the català that, obviously, you have taken care not to comply, as always and as in everything. We're talking about 2005, Minister. You know what's going on? That we do not have to ask you to shield the català, Minister, because it is actually a right recognised in the European Union treaties and conventions that you are obliged to comply with. So, Minister, are they going to comply with the European treaties and conventions? Yes or no? It's very simple. Neither I nor anyone has to give anything in return for you to do what you are obliged to do, for you, this Government, to do what you are obliged to do. I have as much right to live freely twenty-four hours in Catalan as you have to live in Spanish. But do you know what's going on? That you can and I cannot, you are not complying with the European treaties and conventions. This is why, and for many other things, 52% of the citizens in Catalonia have voted for independence, they have voted for Catalonia to be an independent state of Europe. Let us also talk about data, Minister. Have the last approved budgets been implemented? No, the last budgets have not been implemented, approved in part with the votes of Catalanism which gave its support in exchange for promises which you, once again, have not fulfilled. So in Together we ask to go together, to have strength and, above all, to charge for advance, because, to date, the only ones that are charging for advance are the Socialist Party. But what does it mean that the budgets have not been implemented? Where is the money of the citizens of Catalonia? The reality is that coffee for all costs the citizens of Catalonia 20 billion euros a year today. This is what we know as a fiscal expoliation: 20 billion euros a year that are of the citizens of Catalonia, that leave and that do not come back. But what else should the citizens of Catalonia know? Apart from the fiscal expoliation, there are the General Budgets of the State. In this law the government in charge establishes how much money will go to each autonomy. Well, out of every 100 euros budgeted in Catalonia only 66 arrive, and this is an average of the last ten years. Therefore, 28 billion euros that by law had to arrive in Catalonia have not arrived. By contrast, to put another example, in Madrid, of every 100 euros that by law have to go to Madrid arrive at 113; 113 in Madrid, 66 in Catalonia. These figures are scandalous, Minister, but what can we expect from you if yesterday, at the end of 2021, you announce that this year, of every 100 euros that had to be invested in Catalonia, only 30 have been invested? Of every 100, 30? The lesser evil is also bad. Someone said there's no alternative; there's an alternative, and we all know what the alternative is. What do we propose to you since Junts, Minister? It is a very simple thing, that they pay Catalans what belongs to Catalans. If the budget law states that Catalonia is charged 100, 100 is paid; 66 is not paid, 30 is not paid; 100 is paid. Do you think this is very radical, Minister? Because we in Together are the radicals. I would like to know how many Catalans are considered radical now that they know these figures, because the euros in them fuck them all, not just the independenceists. Unfortunately, as long as this government continues to find support from a few in exchange for nothing, this government will never sit down and negotiate seriously and sincerely with Catalonia. I end up sharing a reflection that made this Saturday l'amic Josep Valtònyc: Many of us who arrived here four or five years ago had very clear the objective; some of us still have very clear: the independence of Catalonia. Now we're selling here as a great achievement 'will we try to negotiate some Catalan in Netflix?'. They humiliate us and deceive us, and they do it year after year. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u82	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u83	President, ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the debate on all the budgets, and in the debate on all the budgets the political formations which have tabled an amendment to the whole of them are seeking the completion of the budgetary procedure; they are seeking the abolition of the parliamentary procedure. Look, from the Democratic Party we can understand that some budgets are not voted on. In fact, at the moment we do not rule out that we can vote against these budgets if we do not reach a budgetary agreement. But, of course, when an amendment is tabled in its entirety, what does it add to those who present the amendment in its entirety? What is the aim of the amendment as a whole? For they are the ones of no to everything; they are the ones of the worst, the better; they are the ones who want to bring down the government to enter to rule. That the People's Party and VOX present an amendment to the whole I understand it perfectly; it is normal, it is the aspirants and, perhaps, according to the polls, it is the ones who would occupy the blue bank. But why is it presented by the rest of the groups? That's what they'll have to explain. [[Applauds]] In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the minister this morning called for the parliamentary groups' share of responsibility. We all know that, all citizens know that too, they know it in Catalonia, but I remember it. What is, in relation to budgets, each one's responsibility? In this House, the responsibility of parliamentary groups and Members is, in any case, to approve budgets, to make available to the Executive a tool called budgets, which must then be implemented. Last year we exercised this responsibility and collaborated in the adoption of the budget. Others were inhibited. It's probably more comfortable to inhibit yourself. Now, Minister, Ministers - and you are transferred to the President of the Government and to the members of the Government of the various political formations - once the budget has been approved, it is your responsibility to implement this budget. If this budget is not implemented, the Catalans, the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish and Spanish know perfectly well that the responsibility is not for the parliamentary groups that have approved the budget; the responsibility is for the government. If this budget is not partially implemented, or poorly implemented, or what has to be collected is not collected, or what has to be invested is not reversed, the responsibility is not of the groups that have approved the budget; the responsibilities are of the Socialist Party and the United We can. You must know that and you must assume it. When you say that you are implementing 30% of the investment budgets in Catalonia, you are taking responsibility to Catalans and Catalans, and Catalans and Catalans need to know that we have put a tool at their disposal and are only using it at 30%. Catalans and Catalans have to ask you for responsibility for this. When you are unable to implement even 50 % of the 5 billion that have been made available for aid to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people, this is not the responsibility of the parliamentary groups that we adopt these measures, it is the responsibility of the government. That Catalans and Catalans need to know, and they know, and they will demand responsibilities according to our actions. [[The lady]] Look, the Catalans and the Catalans can be directed in many ways, but, like most, they are usually intelligent people and they know who are the ones who are inhibited from responsibility, they know who are the ones who say: no, I don't want to commit to approving anything in case the Executive then executes it or doesn't execute it. The Democratic Party has committed itself and we will see, as a result of the negotiation, whether we can commit ourselves or not. We're not aborting these accounts before we start negotiating. Therefore, in Catalonia they know who are those who are inhibiting, who are placing themselves, as we have seen, in the worst, the better. But in Catalonia they also know who are those who have resources at their disposal and are not able to execute them. Madam Minister, in Catalonia it is not understood that this lack of execution - which in itself is terrible, is bad and indicates that responsibility has not been assumed - is, moreover, asymmetric in terms of the territories. Because I can understand that there is a circumstance and in one year only 30 or 40% is executed. It's a failure, but I can understand it. But when 70 % is being implemented in one autonomous community and 30 % in another, that requires an explanation and, in any case, responsibility, at the moment, must be borne by the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u85	Madam Minister, allow me to congratulate you not on the budgets, which are very good - we will talk about that later - but on that reference to Mr Abascal and Mr Gil Lázaro. Unmask the hypocrisy of some jackets who abandoned or defected from the People's Party when the udders that nursed them were finished, I think it's good that it's done in this Congress. [[Applauds]] Let's get to the budgets... [[Mr. Steegmann Olmedillas: Why don't you tell his face?]] Wherever you want and whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u86	Mr. Steegmann, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u87	Madam President, or for these ladies and gentlemen, or...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u88	Mr Baldoví, continue your intervention, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u89	I just don't concentrate. [[Applauds]] Thank you. After attending the obtuse version of the apocalypse according to Pablo Casado and the apocalypse according to Espinosa de los Monteros, we can say with conviction that we will vote no to those amendments to the whole of this pessimistic radical opposition, that one day yes and another day they also draw a dantesque world that exists only in their warm and frustrated mind, because the years are spent here and in Valencia and they are still in opposition; that chillone opposition, lacking and apocalyptic that citizens are already tired of enduring. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, there are no autonomy left, there are the vagrant politicians of Valencian VOX, for example, who did not make a single amendment to the Valencian budgets in 2021. Those are a superfluous expense; that is a chollo: to collect without working. Madam Minister, we want these budgets to continue, because, although we find that they are insufficient from the Valencian point of view, we believe that they can be improved; that is why we are voting against these amendments, because we believe that they can be improved. We improved them last year and sincerely believe that they can be improved if you have the will. We have a will. We want these budgets to be fairer, more redistributive and more supportive, which is what anyone would ask from budgets, whether from a city council, an autonomous community or the General Budgets of the State. And what does Compromises ask of these budgets? Reasonable things, social justice, redistributive justice: that if the State transfers powers to us, it transfers the resources to us in order to be able to pay those powers, especially in an underfunded territory for many years. Compromise has been here for ten years and we have been claiming since the first day, more than thirty outside this Parliament. We hope that you will keep the promise you made in this rostrum and that this month I presented that document to which you committed yourself to us in the investiture and in the budgets of the year 2021. Sometimes some people tell us to complain. Alicante is the fifth province of the State by population, the fifth province; in investment per inhabitant, fifty-two - the last -; last year, forty-six; the other, forty-seven, and one year and another and another. This year is worse than the previous year and something needs to be done; something needs to be done. And how can more resources be transferred? We have already offered them a whole range of proposals: more direct transfers in these budgets, maintaining the COVID Fund, a levelling fund - which we have already repeated many times - or reducing our illegitimate debt so that we do not have to devote resources to paying it and we can devote those resources to social policies or to investing in the Valencian productive fabric. Two, that closeness service is truly a priority for this Government. Yesterday - yesterday - twenty-one cancellations occurred, how is a citizen going to trust the service of closeness if there are twenty-one cancellations only in Valencian territory? Complicated. Above all, apart from the delays, apart from insufficient staffing and aged material, incomplete frequencies, the execution that Mr Bel was talking about, that is, it is one thing to paint in the budgets and another to execute. And near execution, really, is absolutely intolerable. Untolerable. It is of little use to be promising at the Climate Change Summit many things and then forcing citizens to use their private car. Finally, that cultural transfers do not have to do with whether you are from Madrid or Valencia; for example, in museums, in the Royal Palace or the Palau de les Arts. There you can do a lot of things. And then there are measures aimed at improving well-being, which is where many of our proposals will go. I sincerely hope, Madam Minister, that you will listen to them and that we will reach an agreement, because we have had years and years with budgets that, indeed, underfunded below invest in Valencian territory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u90	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u92	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, for us, for the BNG, the budgets presented to us by the Government are clearly insufficient. However, we have not tabled an amendment as a whole because, despite this unsatisfactory assessment, it is true that, as far as territorialized investment is concerned, it represents a slightly - only slightly - starting point better than the budgets of 2021. It should be recalled that the BNG rejected the accounts in force for unfair and discriminatory with our country, with Galicia. Why? Because in a context of expansive budgets in which investment rose above 60% and most of the autonomous communities did so above 50%, in Galicia 11 % fell in relation to the last approved budgets, at the time those of the People's Party and Montoro, and we still lost EUR 104 million, which we believe is unjustifiable, absolutely unjustifiable. The budget proposal for the year 2022 implies an increase in investment in Galicia of 242 million euros - theoretically of 242 million euros - compared to the year 2021. Why, then, do they seem inadequate to us? For starters, because they are not enough to compensate for the historical deficit in investments, especially in infrastructure in our country. Also, because of the EUR 242 million, half, 122, that corresponds to a part of the Ministry of Defence that we do not understand justified to be included within the territorialized budgets, a part for the construction of frigates F-110 in Navantia, that in any case we do not believe it is an investment and because in addition to that phase begins the engineering or technological supplies are not to be made in Ferrol. Therefore, for the sake of clarity, we believe that it is logical that this heading should be withdrawn from the calculation of territorialized investments. In any case, the BNG is fully prepared to dialogue and negotiate, always from a consistent position of defence of the interests of Galicia and the popular classes. We therefore call on the Government to make the same provision to improve investment forecasts in our country and to move forward with the implementation of the investment agreement. We want the necessary funds to modernise the internal rail network and to improve the services currently provided. Let me give you two eloquent facts. The first, the last great performance on the railway line A Coruña-Ferrol dates back to 1913, more than a hundred years ago. The average speed is 50 km/h and it takes twice as long by train as in a private vehicle. The second has to do with proximity services. Joan Baldoví said that in Valencia they cannot trust the services of proximity. We don't have that problem in Galicia. Do you know why? [[Show a map]] This is the map of Renfe's vicinity. Are you the yellow spot on Galicia? Nor do we, for the simple reason that closeness services do not exist in our country. Do you think that there can be real progress in decarbonising the economy without really promoting an effective and sustainable means of transport such as railways? Or that, or we will be going to an ecological transition model exclusively for rich and excluding social majorities. We want to see reflected in the budgets the implementation of the railway neighbourhoods in the metropolitan areas of Galicia, the progress in the modernization and expansion of our railway network, the creation of three gender-based violence courts in Lugo, Ourense and Santiago; the solution to the problem of returning migrants' finances; or the impetus for the normalisation of the Galician language in the public media of the State and in the audiovisual media, all of which are, of course, measures contained in the investment agreement. We also want them to make possible a solution to the deep industrial crisis in Galicia - Alcoa, Alu Ibérica, Barreras, Vulcano, As Pontes, etc. -. We want the transformation of the internal port of A Coruña or the sanitation and regeneration of our ria to recover all its environmental quality and productive capacity. We want to address the rescue of the AP-9, after the European Union concluded that the extension of the concession until 2048 was illegal, and we want to do so in order to end the scam, which we have always said legalized and now we know that it is illegal, which it represents. By the way, we have just heard that the concessionaire announces that if the concession is removed, it will claim more than EUR 1 billion. In view of the fact that in August, when the bonuses took place, a sum of EUR 2400 million was also set aside for bonuses only. Therefore, the rescue of AP-9 is taken into account. We want to establish bonuses in the AP-53, the most expensive of the state per kilometre, and to speak seriously of a Galician electric tariff as a country producing surplus electricity. We also want more social policies; to increase resources in the law of dependency; to increase minimum pensions; to eliminate the replenishment rate to improve public services; to introduce the thirty-two weeks of leave for families with a single parent or to completely and definitively repeal labour reform, and we want fairer tax and tax policies. It's over. As I said, the BNG is willing to dialogue and agree, but always from the defense of Galicia's interests and the popular classes. That is why we hope that the Government, the PSOE and Podemos will be willing to move and correct the outrage against the interests of the Galicians and Galicians who carried out last year in the accounts of 2021. As we said then, we would like to be able to vote in favour of the General Budgets of the State because that means that they are good for our people.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u94	Mr. Rego, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u95	It's over. But the meaning of our vote will be decided on the basis of the results of the negotiation of the amendments. The Government would be wrong if it played parliamentary mathematics in these budgets, because things are always more complex than winning a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Nogueras, I believe that supporting, introducing amendments, allowing a draft budget to be drawn up does not in any way mean that one abandons the legitimate political aspirations that each political formation has. Therefore, it does not seem logical to link support for these public accounts - as is stated in its amendment to the whole - to amnesty or a law of self-determination, to the convening of a referendum or to issues that have nothing to do with budgetary processing. They are not elements that form part of the budgetary debate, they are issues that have to be addressed, which have to be addressed from the climate of dialogue, trying to reach agreements, reaching consensus, knowing from all sides what are the elements that light up each of the political formations or this Government in particular with regard to the situation in Catalonia. Mrs Nogueras, here we are for another thing, which is to try to reach an agreement on budgetary matters so that the accounts actually contribute to a recovery, to a better well-being for citizens, to greater territorial cohesion throughout the country. In short, we can incorporate resources that allow us to navigate through those policies, to move forward in those policies that are truly transformative, that we can agree on all that are on the horizon, be it digitisation, digital transformation or the struggle for equality between men and women, to put just a few examples. I think it's important to see what the budgets provide for Catalonia. You see, I have to tell you what I have perceived, Mrs. Nogueras, and if I'm wrong, you apologize. It gives me the impression that you, in your speech, have basically wanted to target other independent political formations for support to these budgets. It is the impression that you have given me of the speech that I have heard in the gallery, because you have been stressing more those issues that, once agreed, have had some difficulty - for example, in terms of implementation, an issue that you know we are correcting; clearly that it is not desirable anywhere, of course, either by the Minister of Finance or by the parliamentary groups that present any kind of amendment - but there is one issue that is common sense, Mrs Nogueras: if you do not agree on a quantity, you cannot demand it to be complied with; you come to demand that you follow things that you have not agreed, which is an inconsistency, you do not understand. What is more, I hear it from you in your exhibition - beyond that I will then appoint you, and above all Mr Bel, what are the contents envisaged for Catalonia - and the impression is that you lived better with Mr Rajoy's government, Mrs Nogueras. Is that so? Did you live better with Mr. Rajoy's government? That is to say, when, according to you, certain issues were being suppressed in Catalonia, when, according to you, freedom of expression was not being allowed, when, according to you, you had a series of coercions to exercise your rights and freedoms, it turns out that you, by returning these budgets, seem that what you are aspiring to is to re-govern the right in this country when not only did you not find a channel of dialogue to be able to talk about the situation in Catalonia, but that - you repeat it every day when you come up to this rostrum - it denies you the bread and salt in any matter, whether or not it has to do with your aspirations, which I disagree with, but which are absolutely legitimate in a democratic society. Be clear, I don't understand the game of Xcat Juntas. Above all, I will tell you one thing very clearly: you do nothing good for Catalonia by not supporting these accounts. You hide behind the non-support of these accounts. But I don't support what, Mrs. Nogueras? I don't support what brings us? Do you have any more resources for Catalonia? Does it bring more investment capacity to Catalonia? Does it bring more welfare, more dependency, more pensions, more education, more health for Catalans and Catalans? Does that bring about a vote or an amendment in its entirety? Because I don't think so. Mrs. Nogueras, you know we've contacted you. I don't know why you came here to say... [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero makes negative signs]] If you know, Mrs. Nogueras, if you know, you know we've contacted you and we've wanted to talk to you, you know. It gives me the impression - excuse me if I am wrong - that it is justifying more to the interior of Catalonia that it is against budgets, investments, policies that are good for the well-being of Catalans and Catalans than defending an amendment to the whole that, as you know, does not benefit anyone and who only plays the game is to the bench of the right which, you say, has been those who have coerced the people in Catalonia. You don't understand. Your role in this matter with the Government of Spain I have to confirm to you again, in this matter or in another, that you do not understand, Mrs Nogueras. It is not easily intuitive to explain why you refuse everything, why you do not want anything, why you do not want to sit on a dialogue table and why you do not want to support accounts that have to allow Catalonia to progress. You are in the idea of your - I insist - legitimate aspiration for Catalonia to be independent. This government does not share it, but of course that is not an obstacle for Catalonia to receive, for example, the investments that correspond to it according to the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy. Or does that matter, Mrs. Nogueras? Or did we live better with the right? Because that's what seems to come out of your position. Of course, since the beginning of this legislature the attitude of Together Cat has been diametrically the same. There has always been repeated conduct in which you have virtually not wanted to negotiate any of the elements envisaged in this Government's policy road map, although - I insist - most of these issues are good for Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, I do not understand very well how you stand in the face of the political conflict in your autonomous community and, above all, what, in your view, is the ability to advance that position. Or doesn't he have any? Or is it better to live in contradiction? Or is it better to live permanently in an irresolvable conflict? Or is it better to have an external enemy to justify one's own actions? I say this in political terms, alone and exclusively, because that attitude of Juntas Xcat is not understood. Is this budget good for Catalonia? Yes, quite frankly, yes. Is it a budget that respects Catalonia's Statute of Autonomy? Yes, quite frankly, yes. It does so with a regionalized investment, the highest in the historical series and adding 236 million that are capital transfers that raise the weight of investment in Catalonia to 19% compared to the national total. In Catalonia, investment per capita in these budgets is 290 euros, above the national average of 274.4 euros. Perhaps it does not matter to you, Mrs Nogueras, that the budgets include a greater investment, but it seems to me that it is important to underline it and it seems to me that it is important that you support public accounts that are objectively good for Catalonia. This budget grows 129 million over what was in 2021. Your Honor, of course, the budget is not going to solve, nor is it the final element to be able to solve the shortcomings that the most sensitive public services may have for the whole of the citizenry, such as education or health, it is the responsibility of the autonomous government to inject resources into these areas so that they can deliver quality. But it is also true that the budget envisages the highest forecast of deliveries on account for Catalonia, 6.8% higher than it had in 2021. In addition, the contributions of the VAT Information System and the negative liquidations should be added to it, 7 billion for the whole of the autonomous communities as an unconditional fund so that they can be used precisely for the provision of these services. There is a record in the number of scholarships, there is a housing policy that allows the emancipation of our young people, there is a revaluation of pensions, which affects 1,600,000 pensioners in Catalonia, attention to dependency increases by 23%, 244,000 people will benefit from a transfer to Catalonia Depending on more than €382,000. Aren't all these beneficiaries Catalan, Mrs. Nogueras? Don't you need a boost to your quality of life? Is it not important for the Government of Spain to bet on improving its conditions? Similarly, you could talk about the thermal social bonus, which affects 112 000 households in Catalonia; the minimum living income, which also represents a very important part of the resources in your community - so that an idea can be made, until September 28,285 people were beneficiaries of the minimum living income - or the budgets that are provided to compensate for public service obligations in proximity and mid distance provided in Catalonia in 2020. A competition that was transferred to the community and that since 1 January 2010 the corresponding share was not paid. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that the budgets are good for Catalonia. I believe that your opposition to approve them or to present an amendment to the contrary in its entirety only responds to a miscalculated interest, from my position, which Junts Xcat does, because to say that no to these budgets is to say no to the welfare of Catalonia, to the welfare of its citizens, to the improvement of its public services or to the improvement of its investments. I would therefore ask your ladies and gentlemen to think well what they prefer, if rather than being able to have public accounts and that this progressive government continue to try to develop a dialogue with its autonomous community prefer confrontation, the policy practiced by the People's Party, because, Your Honor, it all seems to represent that, that you lived more comfortably with the People's Party. Mr Bel, I thank you for the tone of your speech, which is always constructive and polite. I believe that resolving the differences is much simpler than inhibiting the solutions that each one can bring from their thinking and according to their ability. I would therefore like to thank you for your willingness to support this draft budget. Obviously, you can never represent a blank check. We are absolutely aware that that is the case. Every day, in every bill the Government has to be able to dialogue with all groups in order to gain their support. I think you have had the opportunity to read everything that is translated into Catalonia within these accounts. The Government is trying - and you are also a witness to this - to be able, through agreement, dialogue, consensus, to seek shared solutions that will allow Catalonia to continue to have the leadership of the economic recovery it has maintained throughout the history of Spain, to remain pioneers in such important areas as culture, such as science, such as innovation, which, of course, also contributes to the whole of our country; talent, effort is not owned by anyone, is it not? Fortunately, it is socialized and shared with all others, if not told about the speed with which we have produced vaccines from science. On the other hand, I share with you that the implementation envisaged today in the draft budgets is not the right one. I only say that the Ministry of Finance's aspiration is to ensure in detail compliance with the volume of investments, which in 2021 has been further diminished. It does not happen only to the Government of Spain - see the figures of the Generalitat, for example, which are also low - and it is due to different factors: the pandemic, the Filomena storm, some other issues that we have had and also to the increase in the cost of raw materials that the set of construction companies is having, which is slowing down the implementation of certain projects, and is even paralysing that some works can continue with their speed, the speed that they brought from January. These are elements that we are trying to develop clearly, but I share with you that there is absolutely no reason to justify why there can be an asymmetry in the distribution of that execution. I share this and, in fact, we are committed to monitoring it, to monitoring it from next year so that we can help, also from our ministry, to boost investment and, on the other hand, to ensure that there are no unexplained issues or, at least, issues that you do not know that may result in delays in any of the implementation projects. It seems to me important that you take it to our heart and be calm that we really need to correct that element so that there are no suspicions and that there is no evil voice that believes that it is done on purpose with the autonomous community in favour of other territories or other communities. We will see it within the time frame for amendments and, therefore, Mr Bel, we are in a position to discuss it at that time. Mr Baldoví, I appreciate, as always, your willingness to dialogue, your speech clearly from the left, which I believe allows us - beyond the aspirations of each one - to find ourselves on issues as important to people as the commitment to health, education, dependence, ERTE policy, unemployment policies, housing policy, culture, young people. I sincerely believe that with its political formation we share the spirit of this budget in all the emphasis placed on the social shield and on all the issues that invite us to make the recovery really fair and, above all, for SMEs and the self-employed. It does not escape me - you always repeat it and I think it is important to do so - that we need territorial cohesion to be present in the public accounts. We need other tools - not just the budget - a set of tools to enable us to achieve this convergence and, above all, to correct the asymmetries that exist in the funding model or in some of the issues that have traditionally been transferred by the State. I did want to say that the budget complies with the statute of autonomy. It does so through territorialized investment, which rises by 9.3%, but to which capital transfers have to be added, because we have agreed with the autonomous community. That is to say, it is investment of the State but that it executes the Valencian Generalitat itself for the amount of 269 million euros, a money that will be directed to the execution of these investments, raising the total to 11.4%. That is why I told him that the investment in Valencia is being fulfilled, although it is true that it is always necessary to add not only chapter 6 but chapter 7 - capital transfers - because in the mixed commissions we sometimes come to agreements for the money to be transferred, even if it is the competence of the autonomous community, and the investment is made by the autonomous administration itself. The investment of its community is above that reflected in the statute and above the average investment in another territory. Of course, far above what the People's Party, which was at around 6.2% - 8% at best - was collecting, far removed from the figures given by the People's Party. The total investment envisaged for these budgets of 2022 is EUR 1530 million. This represents 25% more than we reported in 2020. The rhythm of the works continues and must therefore be accompanied. He also spoke to them about the 269 million capital transfers, and 52.8 must be added to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. The budgets also show the highest share of deliveries in the historical series, 5.5% more than in 2021, and it is also the case with the infrastructure agreement in the Valencian Community, which receives a very significant increase, innovative mobility solutions. In short, Mr Baldoví, I really think that among the investments of ADIF High Speed of the Ministry of Transport we are developing a very important volume of projects that will undoubtedly contribute to the well-being of your community. I could talk about the 49 million in the creation of road infrastructure or the 124 million that go to the ports. In short, as I said, virtually all of the priority issues in each of the departments have a very specific allocation for the Valencian Community. You told me - and it is often the case in this debate and every time you and I debate - that we obviously cannot forget the model of autonomous financing. Believe me, Mr. Baldoví, I don't forget a single day of the autonomous financing model. We are making an effort this year by transferring 7 billion to autonomous communities for the negative settlement of the year to be paid, 2020, so I always say that our policies have no trap or cardboard. And, on the other hand, the VAT Information System, which, as you are well aware, was something that developed or perpetuated the People's Party, but which we have subsequently corrected from different perspectives already specifically from these budgets. I keep alive my commitment to you that this November we will present the adjusted population report. I hope that from there we will reach agreements - not just with you, I mean all the autonomous communities - on these issues. And, as Mr Bel said, I know that allowing budgets to be processed does not mean a blank cheque, we have to sit down and negotiate those specific items that you think can be improved. Keep your doors open, Mr Baldoví; I am convinced that we are going to reach an agreement that will allow us to move forward not only on social rights, which I know you share, but also on tangible issues and investment proposals for your community. Mr Rego, I am grateful that this year your political formation has not tabled an amendment in its entirety, as it did last year. You have justified it by saying that the starting point is better, but that there are still great shortcomings in these budgets. Well, I'm staying with that change of attitude that I think is positive. I believe that we can agree on many of the issues that you can aspire to, obviously not on everything you have said in your speech, because you have virtually exhausted the debate of an entire legislature, you have incorporated from labour reform to other kinds of issues that, as a priority of this government, are not part of the debate on these budgets, but I do believe that the figures envisaged for Galicia are very important; in territorialized investments, 29.3% more than those of the 2021 budgets, which I believe is a figure worth detail. Moreover, 8% of the regionalised total, above the per capita investment of other autonomous communities, 398 euros compared to 274. And you also have in the budget the breakdown by province; round figures that I will not repeat to you in order to simplify. The same applies to deliveries on account, the highest in history, 6.9% higher than in 2021. I am not going to repeat myself with the things I have said to Mr Baldoví with regard to settlement, to the VAT Information System. In Galicia ADIF will invest 286 million, 140 more than this year. Of this amount, 226 will be allocated to the TEN-T Corridor Network, which I know is also a priority for its political formation. In addition, ADIF High Speed will invest 103 million. The Ministry of Transport, as a whole, will invest in the non-transferred part to the instrumental entities 207 million, 120 on roads, and we subsidize train tickets declared as a public service obligation. Well, I am not going to dwell on the application of all the investments recorded in Galicia, but I think that a very important leap has been made with this year's budget. Similarly, as I have told the other colleagues, of course, you have opened your doors and extended your hand to be able to count on your political formation in the final debate, once we have studied the amendments that I am sure you will present and that we will have an opportunity to discuss. I conclude by reiterating my thanks to all the groups for their willingness to engage in dialogue, to all those who have not tabled an amendment to the whole of this Plural Group, and I urge them that, very soon, we should be able to clarify what amendments the Government can accept and, if it cannot do so, what are the reasons that prevent us from doing so. But make it clear what we want to reach an agreement with all of you and that it seems to us essential that this budget has the greatest possible support, how much more with such important political formations in the autonomous communities, having this budget a vocation, of course, of coordination and a vocation of recognition of all those singularities that the territory expresses every day in the form of investment, in the form of support and public aid, or in the form of an impulse to the productive sector. I hope that we can fulfil that and that is where I stand. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u99	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister. What do you guys bring, you ask us. We have 52% of the citizens of Catalonia who have voted for independence. [[Rumors]] They don't understand the Juntas game, he says. Of course they do not understand the game, because we have not come to play, minister. I don't know what you all are doing, but we're not here to play. And to be demanding with you is not to be the ones of no to everything, and you know it perfectly, so I would ask you not to deceive or use this demagogy that you so criticize. How can you stand up to us if we do not reach agreements if you do not sit with us to talk and reach agreements. We've contacted them, they say. We - forgive me, minister - come here with rigor and seriousness in the General Budgets of the State and you tell us that you have contacted us, that you have made a call, that you have told us, yes, via press, that you want and are happy to negotiate with Junts per Catalunya. No one has sat with Junts per Catalunya to negotiate. Feel fearless. We can understand that they may not want to sit with us because we are demanding and because we are not going to give anything at all, but it is certainly for this reason that they do not want to sit with us or even that they veto us at the dialogue table. In this left-right debate that you so much like to repeat, do you know how we know for sure that we are going to live better? Being an independent State. That is why the majority of citizens of Catalonia vote for independence, because with independence Catalans will live much better. PP the PSOE. You are engaged in the PP or PSOE debate. The confrontation of the People's Party, the false dialogue of the Socialist Party. Frankly, do you know what we prefer? To stand in front of a Spanish government willing to do politics, Minister, to do real politics. A government whose main argument for defending its budgets is that if we don't vote for them, the wolf comes, I'm sorry, minister, but it's very unserious. Surely - I hope I am mistaken - your 'roundly yes' is the new and updated'support'. A budget may be good or bad, Minister, but what is certain is that if a budget is not executed it is simply a lie. I see that you are very keen to talk about Mr Rajoy; we have already commented on a couple of things. Let's talk about Mr. Rajoy, because it looks like everyone here has a fish memory. It was you, Madam Minister, who stood beside you pressing the button of 155: prison, exile, violence, lies and ill-treatment. In short, the shame of Europe. You were at your side, so, yes, you have a lot to see the context that we are living in the last few years in Catalonia with all this. He said earlier in his speech that you have defended as no one the rights and freedoms of all. I would like to remind you that you have spoken with all of these in order to go precisely against the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. [[pointing to the benches of popular parliamentary groups in Congress, Citizens and VOX]] Of course it has everything to do with it, Minister. You don't understand anything. This is not just an amendment to the budgets, it is an amendment to their attitude, their lack of commitment and their lack of speech, because amending is correct. We wonder in Junts if you are willing to correct, negotiate and study real proposals for Catalonia. I had a list of proposals that we would have liked to negotiate and talk to you, but I will end up saying the usual: Visca Catalunya liure! Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me, Mrs. Nogueras, to answer from the seat. The first thing I wanted to say to you is that you do not represent 52% of the citizens of Catalonia. [[Applauds]] The fact that your political formation is arrogated the representation of the rest of the independentist formations, at least, does not seem humble, Mrs Nogueras. Of course, you represent the volume you represent, for me respectable enough for us to have called it. You say no, I say yes. Regardless of that, I believe that the weighty reasons you have given in the rostrum not to support this draft budget have nothing to do with public accounts; therefore, we would hardly have been able to move in that direction. I just want to come up with a reflection, and I'm done with it. Indeed, when politics is not useful, citizens are separated from it. When the investments for Catalonia are being discussed, when the improvement of the welfare of Catalans and Catalans is being discussed in the form of scholarships, in the form of health, in the form of education, in the form of energy efficiency policies and the promotion of free justice, when we are talking about all these elements, you, Mrs Nogueras, cannot be abstracted. They cannot think that it is not important that their contribution even improves these figures. You give up on this and believe me that I sincerely regret it, but in this debate it is up to you to talk about budgets and you cannot incorporate other matters or elements that you, knowing that there is no coincidence on the part of the Spanish Government, put as a condition directly to justify your submission of an amendment to the whole. Your Honor, it ended up leaving in the air the reflection that I myself was doing at first, because it also seems legitimate to me. Wouldn't it be, Your Honor, that you lived better with the People's Party? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u102	Thank you, Minister. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Budgets are the most important law of a government, but above all they are the most important law of a country, because they mark the direction of the nation. It is decided on which and where to invest, who to protect, why to bet and what policies to push, etc. We in all budget debates are a constructive party, because we are aware of the importance they have. Moreover, we do it when we are in governments, holding hands with the opposition, which we sometimes get support from the opposition, and we also do it from the opposition, because it would not be the first or the second or the third time - and you, Minister, know it well - that our party, the liberal party, from the opposition sits down, negotiates, improves budgets and supports them, even if we do not like the government. But the budget pact for next year was closed last year. Last year all of Spain saw that you chose the path, chose the economic model for Spain and chose partners with which to govern. And I'm very proud, very proud, that you can't say you had no other choice. You do not know how happy, how pleased and how proud I am that neither you nor anyone in your Government has been able to come up here to say that you had no choice but to agree with Bildu and Esquerra because there was no one in the opposition willing to take a hand in the pandemic. You have not been able to say this because, obviously, all of Spain saw how, instead of taking the hand of Citizens, you took the hand of Otegui and Rufián. Furthermore, I am proud that, thanks to the failure to table an amendment to the whole and the negotiation we had, certain taxes which you wanted to raise and which, above all, your partners aspired to raise were not raised. This is the second time that we have tabled a full amendment to the General Budgets of the State, of the five that have been processed as Citizens in this Congress. We are not going to participate in this Pimpinela theatre - if you will allow me - between Married and Mrs. Montero: the Pimpinela. How you fight in public, Mrs. Montero! But yesterday it was good that the armchairs were shared in the Congressional Commission, huh? [[Applauds]] Those pacts behind you are very well understood. Now, for the General Budgets of the State in which the direction of Spain is marked, they have the same speech, which is also interchangeable. Because, Mrs. Montero, you would have made the same speech that Mr. Married has made if they ruled and Mr. Married would have made the same speech as you if they ruled them. Because they've been doing the same thing for 40 years! Do you know, Spanish citizens and ladies and gentlemen, that in forty years the Socialist Party has always tabled an amendment to the entire budgets of the PP and that in forty years the PP has always tabled an amendment to the whole budgets of the PSOE? Why are they doing this theater? Come out here and say, "Look, we are presenting an amendment as a whole because they have tabled it. And sit down. They would have saved us a good toast this morning. There are two Spains, yes, but it's not the left and the right, it's not the PP and the PSOE, it's not the red and the blue. It is the Spain of bipartisanship, in which they have been unable to make state pacts but then they split the charges from behind, and the Spain that wants state agreements and does not want you to split the state. Those are the two Spains that the liberals see in this debate. [[Applauds]] Having said that, why does Citizens present an amendment to these budgets in its entirety? For three reasons, basically. Firstly, for the damage to Spain which contains these budgets; secondly, for the concessions to populists and separatists who hide these budgets, and, thirdly, for the reforms and measures which you do not address, which you avoid and which are not contained in these budgets. These budgets are not the ones that need Spain, they are the ones that need Sanchez to stay in Moncloa. That's why he has closed them with the same partners who keep him in Moncloa at any price. Let's start with the damage that these budgets contain, which is the number one motive. These budgets have more stories than accounts, Minister, because the forecasts are fictitious. It is not said by Citizens, by the Bank of Spain, by the International Monetary Fund, by the AIReF, the BBVA, Funcas and many other agencies. Are you all wrong but you? You said today, Minister, that all these bodies say that Spain is going to grow. Man, of course! We came from a pandemic, it would be nice if we met! But you know what they all say? That we're going to grow less than you say. And it's a drama. I wish you were right! But do you know what's going on? That it generates a hole. When you make growth forecasts that are not going to be met, that moves to a hole that, then, how do you cover? Well, with debt, with cuts, with taxes or with all three things at once, which is what I'm afraid is going to happen. Therefore, these budgets do not fit. The only amount that is square is the one that Sanchez needs for his parliamentary majority to follow another quarter of an hour in Moncloa. You have said one very important thing today, Mrs Montero, you have said that you have increased the collection. Well, of course the collection has increased! Part of this increase in collection is due to inflation. For example, making the bill for light for all Spanish families and businesses more expensive has made you collect more. Therefore, I look at selling by collection things that are in the background stones in the pockets of the Spaniards. We are at 10 points higher in debt growth in Spain than has been averaged in developed economies. Obviously, it's not just your problem, we come from a debt of more than 120 %. Obviously, it is not just his Government's fault, it is the fault of the policies of bipartisanism. But it is that in this pandemic, during which our debt has increased 30 points, it has increased 10 points more than the average of the developed economies. Therefore, there is no good plan to reduce the burden of this debt. The only debt to be paid with these budgets is Mr Sánchez's private debt to Bildu, Esquerra and the nationalists who keep him in Moncloa. Why? Because we need to make quiet and country reforms for decades, and what you do is kick forward: kick forward with pensions, with debt, with light, with energy, with everything that has always been done in this country. We must think not of the next elections, Minister, but of the next generations. The second thing that contains these budgets and that is bad for Spain is a massive tax increase. Yes, Minister, yes. Liberals believe that at a time of crisis economic stimulus and tax cuts help to get out of the crisis. However, populists believe that it is necessary to crush more those who already pay with a new fiscal hack to try to square accounts that do not square. By the way, the same thing happened with the previous crisis when Rajoy came, because the People's Party also promised tax cuts, but when they came to power they said: We couldn't bring them down, we had to raise them, because there is a huge crisis. Well, I understand that if they come to rule again, as we will have a crisis again - and, moreover, with the apocalyptic speech made to us by Mr. Married - they will again tell us that we must raise taxes. Well, look, no. Draghi, for example, who is not a dangerous neoliberal, is betting on tax cuts. Why? Because we have to compete with the rest of the countries to attract talent, investment, companies, work, and we have to do it without paying taxes to the usual ones. You have removed tax deductions in the IRPF from families. You have raised the quota of the self-employed. There has been very little talk today of self-employed people and I want to talk about them because I come from a family of self-employed people. Do you know that the share of self-employed is going to increase between 96 and 225 euros a year in the midst of a crisis? To those who have not had to close the business, of course; to those who continue to live and flow, to those, he hash again, as always. In the area of corporate taxation, we need to be competitive so that our companies can maintain investments, attract them and maintain employment. You raise the registration tax, but do not approve compensation measures for the people concerned, as you have done, for example, in France and Portugal. Then, I suppose you have thought about recovering the rise in VAT from light; I see it from the revenue forecasts of the budgets. And they can't think of anything other than raising social security contributions! In the country with worse data on youth unemployment, unemployment in general and precariousness, they think of nothing other than raising labour taxes, making wages lower and making it harder for young people to gain access to a job. And that's what they told us, because then we found out about a lot of tax hikes through the back door, so they sent Brussels. And then there will be another hatchet - ladies and gentlemen, get ready! - when you have your committee of experts, this one you have assembled to cover your new tax hike in February; that is, hold your pockets. When you say that you are not going to leave anyone behind it is that you are not going to leave anyone safe from paying taxes; moreover, taxes like those you talk about, because inflation is a poor tax, VAT is paid by everyone, tuition tax is not only paid by rich families, the IRPF deductions that you have taken away, the tolls you want to put on, the increases in contributions... It is a massive rise in taxes at a time when liberals think that what needs to be done is precisely to lower them headily and with economic stimulus. The third harmful element of these budgets, which for me is the most indignant - if you will allow me - is superfluous spending: duplicities and chiringuitos. Can you believe that the most expensive government in history has the defachability of raising wages in the midst of the pandemic crisis? But doesn't it embarrass them? Madam Minister, remember this: at the end of the year a Sánchez secretary of state is going to charge an additional 1800 euros, but a Spanish self-employed person is going to pay an additional 225 euros. Do you think that's reasonable? You say you're what? Progressives? No, no, you're politicians guaranteeing salaries. Elephant administration. In Spain there is a public body for every 2,300 inhabitants, but there is a psychologist for every 16,000 Spaniards. [[Applauds]] There are public agencies and duplicate chiringuitos and there are no psychologists and doctors, judges and police, minister. In finger advisors - I think this is the biggest defachation of all, if you can choose one - we're already going for 1200. This is a curious fact; as I was talking to a partner the other day, it's surprising. Sanchez already has 1200 advisors on his finger. Him! Do you know that 60% of the municipalities in Spain have fewer inhabitants than finger counselors have Pedro Sánchez? It's 1200! Aren't you ashamed of yourself? [[Applauds]] More examples; it won't give me time for everything, because I have limited time. Mrs. Irene Montero's ministry, which is not here today. We already know that there will stop all the defendants and the condemned of Podemos. Come on, there are more defendants and convicts of Podemos in Mrs. Montero's ministry than convicts and delinquents in a chapter of Los Soprano. It then incorporates items like 32 million euros to combat the masculinization of the rural world. I have a proposal for Mrs Irene Montero and it is that she rides in the tractor with our partner Angeles Rosado, who is a mother, a woman and a farmer, and that she goes around the fields of Castilla La Mancha, because she will explain how those 32 million euros can be better invested in the rural world. In short, Mrs Montero, you said today that it is a budget to combat populism. No, no, It is a populist budget, because it has more waste, because it has more taxes, because it has more debt and because it has no reforms. And, in addition, the cotton test: these proposals are going to support populist parties, so they are populist budgets. What do liberals think? We need to be rational in taxes, we need to have economic incentives, we need to eliminate superfluous spending and we need to make state and country reforms that have been in a drawer for 30 years. Fourth harmful thing that incorporates these budgets: inequality. You haven't talked about inequality. Why? He has not talked about how these budgets are going to increase inequality. I'll explain it to you. These budgets, which seem to be going to be approved with their partners in exchange for what we already know, generate more inequality between Spain and other European countries, and widen the gap. Italy for the first time in ten years will grow more than Spain. These budgets increase inequality between territories. You haven't talked about it or I haven't heard it; maybe with so many hours I've escaped, but I don't think so. You have not dared to defend here the investment in Extremadura. You do not dare come here to defend the investment contained in these budgets in Castile-La Mancha. That is to mention two autonomous communities where you govern, that we will no longer enter into the forgotten that is Andalusia or other autonomous communities. Why? Because these budgets are going to go ahead with parties that don't believe in the equality of the Spaniards. You sell half of Spain again so that separatist parties support your budgets. Unfair parties cannot be rewarded and loyal citizens punished with Spain. It is not a good state policy, it is a policy of breaking the state. There is therefore more inequality among Spanish citizens depending on their territory. But do you know an inequality that worries us extremely, seeing today about contributions and pensions? The inequality and the gap that you are creating between the young and the elderly of this country, the slab that you are putting on the backs of children, young and not so young in Spain doing absolutely populist measures. You're burying the future of so many Spaniards. We are therefore presenting an amendment in its entirety. Well, of course, from what includes these budgets: more taxes, fictitious forecasts, superfluous spending and inequality. But I am going to tell you a second reason why we are presenting an amendment in its entirety, because of the counterparties that you are hiding. The minister spoke a lot today. He has done a very long, very careful intervention; he has also had unlimited time. Well, you haven't told us in exchange what Bildu, Esquerra, the PNV and all the court that you have of separatist parties these budgets. Why? You can't dare, because these budgets go in exchange for prisoners. And people are shocked: No, man! It can't be! Well, it's not gonna be the first time. There have already been budgets in Spain for prisoners, which were last year's, which were budgets for coup prisoners. This year, terrorist prisoners are playing. That is, you have changed the crime of the Criminal Code. And this has been publicly acknowledged by Mr Otegi, because he laughs at all the Spaniards when you are in the government. Moreover, why have you agreed to populist counterparts? Well, because they have them within the government. Madam Minister, I will tell you that the most solvent and compelling criticism of populist measures to intervene in the rental or regulation of the labour market has not made them Citizens, has made them the Minister of Economy of the Government of Spain, who is Mrs Calviño. Therefore, do not tell us that we say they are populist measures, because to the greatest criticism of these populist measures you have it sitting on the blue bank. You propose to repeal, prohibit, impose, give in to separatism. What do we propose? To promote, modernise, reform, guarantee the equality of all Spaniards. They're two totally opposite models. That is why, when Sánchez chose Otegi and Bildu instead of Citizens, he chose, not only for him, but for the country, an opposite path. You can't give up any more pieces of equality for the Spaniards. You're going to cut the minimum vital income to the PNV. Moreover, they will include a rectification and an update of pensions, but the Basque quota does not touch it. The Basque quota is not touched. In the quota it is estimated what the Basque Government has to return to the Spanish Government according to the counterparts, but you do not touch the Basque quota. They always win; the nationalists always win, while the rest of the Spaniards lose. Obviously, you haven't talked about this here, but we have to talk about this. How will good budgets be for Spain when they are supported by Bildu and Esquerra? How are you going to be good for this country, Minister? You have come here and repeated several times in your speech that is what the Spanish voted for, that the majority here is what the Spanish voted for. Yes, but you have voted by promising to do the opposite of what you have done. Therefore, do not go up here to say that a pact with Bildu, PNV or Esquerra Republicana is the most logical and normal thing, or that getting Podemos into the government is something that the Spaniards have voted for, because the Spaniards have voted the opposite. Each and every member of the Socialist Party who is sitting here has been voted on promising the opposite of what you have done when you have come to power. [[Applauds]] So don't you dare say that this is the will of the people, because it isn't, it isn't. I therefore amend the whole for the damage that these budgets contain, which I have already explained; I amend the whole for the counterparts that hide these budgets, which I have already explained, but the third reason is why they are left on the road; why they do not include these budgets; why it is not included in the measures, in the bets, in the innovations; for the lost opportunities that we have again in Spain. I'll give you one thing. I will not make the same speech from the People's Parliamentary Group or VOX, which seemed like a homily of the Apocalypse, but I cannot share the happy Arcadia that you sell us. It seems that when the Socialist Party rules, everyone is happy. There is no poor person here and no one has trouble getting to the end of the month, because you have done everything very well. Or they also say that all the problems in Spain are the fault of the People's Party. Hey, that's not true. There are structural problems. Debt is a structural problem during the governments of both political colors; unemployment, we are leaders of unemployment and precariousness in Europe with governments of both political colors; superfluous spending in the administration with both political colors; the rise of taxes when crises come with both by politicians; corruption... I cannot participate in their troubles of'seeing who has the most corrupt party', but it is a problem that has existed with different political colors. So, what do we say? That Spain is prepared to overcome this crisis. We will get out of this crisis, of course we will, how we got out of the dictatorship, how we got out of the 1993 crisis, how we got out of the 2008 crisis. Of course Spain will emerge from this crisis. The problem is: how many opportunities do we miss along the way? How could we get out much better than what we're going to get out? What reforms remain pending in a drawer so that when a new crisis comes Spain will not be the most punished country? What about Spain? Spain is not an isolated country, we are affected by the crises affecting the rest of the world, the energy crisis and the economic crisis, but always in Spain more jobs are destroyed, more GDP is destroyed, work is more precarious, debt increases more or the energy crisis is paid more dearly by the Spanish than the other European countries. Why? Because there is a lack of state reforms. And those reforms can be made; of course, between state parties. What state reforms are you going to do with Bildu and Esquerra, whose purpose is to leave the state? Why do we not agree, as in the European Parliament, on constitutionalist parties at national level to make major country reforms? European funds are a historic opportunity. Of course they're going to be an injection of money into this country and of course they're going to speed up the economy, but the problem is: are they really going to spend on what would really be needed? Are they going to invest properly? Are they going to take them where they really need them? I sincerely believe that today, in these days, in these months and in these years we should be talking about issues that we do not talk about in Spain - artificial intelligence_, digitization, codification, transfer of knowledge, cybersecurity, digital rights - but we are in the old fights of 'and you more'; and more with this government chained to parties that want to break this country. Mrs Montero, in the country that leads unemployment and insecurity in Europe - which unfortunately is ours - do you know that there are thousands and thousands of jobs that are not covered in technological, digital, etc. fields? The education and training we have in Spain are not prepared to meet the needs of companies, because nothing else we have ideological reforms of education that are based on sectarianism and not on educational quality. Spain could be a world power in science and innovation; if we have the best scientists in the world. But what's going on? Here they have precariousness, insecurity and lack of funding in their projects. We could be a world power in renewable energies, of course we can. Look, Germany produces more photovoltaic energy than Spain with 1000 hours less sun per year. What's going on? That here the reforms of the energy sector have been kicked forward. In the field of work, we have magnificent entrepreneurs, magnificent workers, magnificent companies, and in Spain we have the most precarious labour market. It will be because of the reforms that need to be made. Separatism rules here, which does not happen - I would say - in any other country. Let us change the Electoral Law so that the 200,000 votes that Bildu has do not mark the future of 47 million Spaniards. [[Applauds]] For God's sake, that's nothing more than a reform of an organic law. For that they do not agree, but to put their friends in the Constitutional Court or in the Court of Auditors or in the Data Protection Agency, they do sit down. To make an electoral law that already takes away from us the headache that gives a few separatist votes, ultra and overrepresented in Congress, for that you cannot sit your lordships. Look, we could be the best country in the world to have a family, to reconcile, and we're not. I tell you as a working mother: it is an odyssey to maintain a job, and more a job of responsibility, having children. We should overcome those birth rates that lead us to the tail of the developed world. Minister, do you know that 80% of Spaniards would want to have more children than they can afford? You have said one very serious thing today, and it is that Married had not learned that fertility treatments were subsidized by health care. Shall I tell you the fertility deadlines for public health? Do I tell you what happens in families who want to access fertility treatment in public health and have to end up going to private health because it is impossible to cover the deadlines and procedures that are required? [[Applauds]] Speaking of birth, there is no birth promotion plan, and in this I will stop very briefly because it is related to the big issue of pensions. A few months ago - I don't know if you'll remember - I pulled this same chart in the Congress of Deputies. [[shows a graph]] This is the population pyramid of Spain. Don't be fooled, fooled, or think about the next election to see who's going to vote for you. Think of the next generations. You said here today that we should not worry about pensions. Do you believe that people who are forty years old - like I am, for example - or who have less are really not worried about how we are going to collect pensions, Minister? Do you think today's pensioners are not thinking about whether their children and grandchildren will be able to have the pension they have? Do you really believe that there are no young people who want access to a home and cannot, who want access to a job and cannot, who want to have children and have to wait for thirty-five, thirty-six or thirty-nine years because they cannot afford it? This is the main problem or one of the main problems that Spain has. What will happen when all these people access the pension and have to support themselves with the precarious work of the generations that come down? It has not occurred to you other than to raise the contributions. We are one of the European countries with the highest contributions, we are one of the European countries with the most unemployment and job insecurity and you raise taxes to work. Magnificent news! They're really tarnishing the future of the Spaniards. Of course, pensions are sustainable in our country, but what we cannot do is to be supported by those who are always working, those who pay and those who are probably not able to enjoy the same. Pensions are sustainable in Spain, of course, if we make a birth plan, if we make a quality plan for employment and education and if we fight against the submerged economy and tax fraud. These budgets forget a lot of people, a lot. They forget the national police and the Civil Guard, because they do not include the salary matching they deserve; they forget the prison officials, they forget the military. You are a lot of advisors to the finger, but of officials who play their lives by defending this country and giving public services... you forget these. I was going to say that the self-employed forget them, but do not forget them, because they always find them to pay more; I tell them as a daughter and as a family member of self-employed. [[Applauds]] For mental health, Minister, 30 million? Does the government that found 53 million to rescue Plus Ultra tell us that for 47 million Spaniards you put 30 million in the budgets for mental health? As for the ELA, Minister - I asked you the other day - please do not leave today without saying here that you will withdraw the veto of our law to help families with ELA. I ask you please, because it would not mean the 0.01 and peak of budgets and because the answer you gave the other day is not tolerable, which is that each autonomous community do what it wants; no. I also want to talk about the forgotten of this and all budgets, which are those families that are never going to have an official protection floor, that are never going to have a paycheck, that are never going to have a dining scholarship for their children, that are never going to have a free childcare space, that are never going to have a social light bonus, but that pay their mortgage, light, gasoline, tolls, children's school, etc., etc. That is the middle class that has been forgotten in Spain for a long time. Therefore, no, they are not progressive budgets, they are not even supposed social democrats, minister, because there are other social democrat governments in Europe that are going on a totally different path than yours. These budgets are based on the huge injection of money from European funds, which we obviously welcome, as liberals who also promote the recovery plan in the European Parliament, but do not address Spain's problems. Finally, these budgets which give way as never before to separatism, these budgets which re-fry to taxes, these budgets which obviously give way to the stable problems of Spain are not the solution. But what we need is not the alternation of the discourse of the PP and the PSOE, we need a liberal alternative, a reformist alternative, an alternative that can sit down and negotiate budgets. You know that, Minister, because we have sat more than one, more than two and more than three times to negotiate budgets with them. Therefore, we do not settle for alternation, we want an alternative, and that is why we are going to continue working in Spain, because we want a Spain of more free citizens, with more equal opportunities and more prosperous. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, believe me, I've listened to you very carefully. I wanted to see what version of Citizens you brought here today, to this House. They are changing, depending on the day, and I wanted to know exactly whether you were going to let yourself be dragged by the arguments of the People's Party bench or would also raise the tone - something lacking - with which you sometimes turn to my political party, to my political formation, but above all to this government. Are you really, Mrs Arrimadas, proud to have tabled an amendment in its entirety? What does the usefulness of politics mean to you? Do you really believe that you are defending in this House, in these budgets, in the laws that are being dealt with, the thinking, the constructive contribution that the citizens who voted for you, believing that they represented your interests, may want to express? I'm telling you, no. That is the problem you have, that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that you are being absorbed by the bench on the right. Every day we have news, it's no news what I'm saying here. And believe me, Mrs. Arrimadas, I told you this the first time I discussed the budgets with you and told you again, believe me I'm sorry. I still think that this country needs a moderate right, it needs a right that respects the freedoms and rights of people, it needs a right that is willing, depending on the laws, depending on what can be modulated, to agree with the government, to agree with the Socialist Party. Think of the drift you're driving through. Mrs Arrimadas, you have not even wanted - Mr Marín has expressed it in Andalusia - that the Socialist Party vote there on the accounts of the PP and Citizens. I don't understand, Your Honor. I can assure you that when you have expressed your willingness to approve the accounts, we have sat down with you, and delighted to do so, by the way. You have ruled out the possibility that the PSOE will support the budgets in Andalusia; Mr Marin went out to say so. I don't understand the drift of Citizens. I tell you the truth: they seem to be inexorably leading to dilution in the People's Party. And they do one thing again that in this country has had a lot of cost over time: they leave the center-right space expedited. You leave a space unoccupied because you have simply and plainly inherited from Mr Rivera - Mrs Arrimadas inherited - a phobia to the Spanish Socialist Workers Party that prevents you from reaching any agreement with him. [[Applauds]] Do you know why? [[Mrs. Muñoz Vidal makes gestures moving her arms]] Your Honor, no matter how many scarecrows I do from there, I don't know what you're saying. I'm telling you honestly because you don't help me. I am not saying this to Mrs Arrimadas, but to a Member of your parliamentary group. It sounds like I was getting my attention, but I just don't know what he's saying. I told you that since Mr Rivera thought he was touching the Moncloa with his fingers and the calculations he had planned did not go well and the motion of censure was put forward, it seems that you, Mrs Arrimadas, are fleeing the Socialist Party, fleeing the government and never feel like trying to agree on some matter, some legislation, something that will allow us to move forward. I would like to insist again that they stop looking back at the right, that they have their own opinion, that they agree on the right or on the left, depending on what they understand best to be useful and that they do not say no routinely to everything that comes from this progressive government. And stop demonizing political parties by appreciating the quality of the people who vote for them or the quality of the vote we each represent in this House, Mrs Arrimadas. Why do you place yourselves in that moral superiority? [[Applauds]] As valid is the vote of a citizen who has voted for Citizens as that of any other citizen who has said he wants to vote politically, regardless of whether I do not share his aspirations. And you point to VOX. This political formation can be found in this country, as long as I am in the antipodes. That is what allows us to build democracy. I don't know if you feel the same way, but I understand that yes, I understand that in that you are not going to differ excessively. I'd be surprised, but by his expression I don't know what he meant. Obviously, the Constitution houses us all and we all owe it to it. The point is that we are again in this budget debate, in this case without you even wanting to sit down and talk. Really, Your Honor, do you think these budgets are a tax haven? They think these budgets are a fiscal hack and put Italy and Draghi's policies in return. Do you know what the fiscal pressure is in Italy, Mrs. Arrimadas? Don't distract her, Mr. Bal, if you don't mind, I'm giving you an important piece of information. Let me listen to you, if you don't mind, because I'm giving you an important piece of information. Do you know how much the fiscal pressure in Italy is, Mrs. Arrimadas, as in your day with Macron, that you aspire to? At 42.6%. And you know how Spain is? In 36,4 %. And you say no. On what basis do you base it, Your Honor? They are published data, they are not data handled by the Government; they are published data. The fiscal pressure in France and Italy is higher than the fiscal pressure in Spain and that cannot be argued, Your Honor, that is so. [[applause]] However, for you they are referents and everything that President Sánchez does does wrong. There's a sort of phobia - I was telling you - that you have towards President Sánchez, and you, when you no longer have arguments to attack, resort to the formula of bipartisanism. You have to be old, with all due respect. We have to be old, because we come from there, we come from there. You have been an attempt to overcome the formula of bipartisanship and have failed, ladies and gentlemen, and have done so simply and simply because your policy is not understood. I'm telling you very clearly: you don't understand. What do you bring to this House? Because, in the end, they always vote - look where - with the People's Party and with VOX. Therefore, it is not understood. They are part of the same right-wing conglomerate. People will not vote for you because you are different; for that you vote for the original, of course, which is the People's Party. You had a vocation that you would have - from my humble point of view - developed, which is not to have a position of wood - fixed - to always vote for this bloc and vote at least something, Your Honor, with the Socialist Party, with the progressive bloc, with the block that defends rights and freedoms. At least. It's not interactive, I'm sorry to tell you, Mrs. Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u106	Mrs. Muñoz, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u107	Therefore, that is what you should have done, not regret it, in the situation in which you are at the moment, where it is difficult to draw from Mrs Arrimadas' words any specific question that she can bring to the draft budgets or to any of the important debates that we have as a country. Reapply to bipartisanism, that we are all the same, that no matter what we do... We will not be the same when you rule in Andalusia, you have ruled in Madrid, you rule in Murcia and Castile-Leon with the People's Party, right? They don't do it with the Socialist Party. [[applause]] They already have a service sheet, Mrs. Arrimadas. That is the problem we sometimes have when we have been in political activity for some time, which is already beginning to have a service sheet. It is no longer worth this that the elements of the Government have nothing to do with me, that I am not responsible for what things. And of course I'm going to repeat it again. How can you bring to this House a matter of dealing with a disease and not practicing it in the autonomous communities where you govern? How is it possible, Mrs. Arrimadas, that you don't dedicate any more resources to ELA in Andalusia, Murcia, Castile-Leon or Madrid, when you were ruling? [[Applauds]] And you come to demand from this House, this government, that it has no competence in health care. Ah, and if you don't know, Mrs Arrimadas, study it, because we all have clear competences and territorial distribution, all of us here are clear. I don't think you want to negotiate. I believe that you have simply deleted yourself from being useful - as I said - in politics and, therefore, lean on supposed slogans that you think you can strike at, such as this one that this budget does not support it because it is agreed with independenceists and populists, separatists or ex-directors of terrorist gangs; I do not know very well all the adjectives they put in. And no, Mrs. Arrimadas, you're not right. These Budgets are of all Spanish, it is the budget that the country needs. Believe me, I thought you guys were coming to political life to be more attentive than who. I thought it was precisely you, who wanted to be a hinge in political life, who tried the agreement with the Socialist Party in some intervention, in some attempt to form a government that we have jointly starred in, that were more pending than what, but I see no. You demonise the independence forces when you vote with this government, but you remain silent when you vote with you, and you often vote with you, also in this Parliament. For example, the amendments as a whole are going to be voted on by you with Junts Per Catalunya. I could perfectly say that you are marooned with Junts per Catalonia - which you tell me - and that you draw questions under the line - which I think is what you call them - in the offices to be able to join that vote. You have done so in many bills that have come to this House and you will never have heard me say that you are making indecent pacts with the independence forces or with any other political representation that lives in this House. That is why, Your Honor, the Government has an obligation to reach agreements to carry out its public accounts; the Government has an obligation to channel the recovery funds that come from Europe; the Government has an obligation to, if it can, improve people's lives and be able to face the challenges we face as a country. Your honor said of this budget - I think you have repeated what Mr Casado said again, although I do not know if you have used another adjective; if so, excuse me - that it is a fiscal hack. You have voted in favour of the OECD, you have voted in favour of the G20 of 15% for corporate tax. Yes, Your Honor, you have voted in favour of the countries where you govern as liberals, you have voted in favour of 15% for corporation tax. It is one of the three measures envisaged in this budget, and you call it a fiscal hack. 0.1% of businesses - which does not arrive - do you call it a tax haven? Does it not seem to you that it is important that we eliminate it if there is unfair competition on the part of the multinationals to the SME self-employed? Because they compete not on equal terms, they compete by paying proportionally much more taxes than those paid by the large consolidated groups or those who have a profit above 20 million euros. Do you really think that you deserve that sort of tax hack that you support in Europe? The second tax measure is the reduction of the contribution limit to individual pension schemes. Do you know, Your Honor, that the AIReF and the European Commission itself have declared this tax benefit to be regressive? If not, I recommend that you read the AIReF report, which is three years old; it is not from now on because this government has commissioned it, it has already studied it by declaring this bonus, this incentive, a regressive one. Moreover, it is a measure that will not affect the middle and working class. Do you know that 70% of contributions to pension schemes do not reach EUR 1500 per year? Do you know that 58% does not even reach 1000 euros a year in the contribution of the pension plan? Is that a tax haven, too? Obviously not. The third measure - I hope they share it - is the extension of the current limits to tax for the module system both in IRPF and in VAT; a measure that will save 115 million euros. Where is the sablazo to the self-employed or the SMEs? Can you tell me what measure included in these accounts represents a tax on families, Your Honor? Because for now what you have only warned is against inflation, against the risk of inflation, which we have long talked about in the morning and in the reply to Mr Casado - I hope you have been able to hear me -. On the other hand, they do not practice such policies in the places where they govern. I would like to remind you that your model is that families who earn 80 000 euros can deduct English classes by reducing resources for those who have the most. These are the proposals you handle in the autonomous communities where you govern. By the way, is it also in Murcia, Madrid, Galicia and Castile and León that the lack of resources that you say have public services is the fault of the Government of Spain? Mrs Arrimadas, it is that you cannot come to the rostrum as if you have just come to political life, it is that you are already a few years ago and, above all, a few governments behind you, including the governments of the autonomous communities that I have just commented on. You tell the pensioners that you do not share the revaluation of their pensions, which seems to them to be a luxury; you tell the families with difficulties who do not want the minimum living income, which may seem to them to be a luxury; you tell the workers who are against the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, because it is also a luxury; you tell them that you do not agree that the budget goes up in health, among other things, for transfers to the autonomous communities, because it is a luxury; you do not go up the scholarships, because it is also, and therefore the one that can be financed the studies that do it and the one that does not, what we are going to do to it. [[applause]] In short, continue with that speech of insensitivity with the bill of light and with all that which tries to accompany what you say, but which does not correspond to the realities or policies of this government at all. Did you say, Mrs Arrimadas, that I did not defend investments in other autonomous communities? I believe that you have been present in the debate this morning, but now I cannot be sure. Have you heard that I have told some of the interveners that Andalusia is the autonomous community that receives the largest amount of investment? Do you care about that? Do you think this is important for the development of the autonomous community where you also govern? You say that you have never tabled an amendment to the whole, and I was reminded by a colleague who in Catalonia has always tabled an amendment to the whole, will vote for the Socialist Party or will vote for the independence parties. Therefore, it seems that the problem you have with the PSOE. The citizens are already expressing to them with absolute clarity that, of course, this policy they practice is not the one that represents them and, therefore, there is a process of dilution of their own political formation that should lead them to reflection. I have commented on all the measures to support self-employed people and small businesses that have this budget, and I have done so throughout the different replicas that we have had today. Finally, Mrs Arrimadas, speaking of equality and talking about families, I do not know why you are opposed to increasing protection for the family and children by 40 million. I do not know why it opposes the development of the corresponding plan to allow conciliation, which is endowed with 190 million euros that will go to the autonomous communities. I don't know why it opposes 333 million euros for children's education from zero to three years, 2199 million euros for scholarships... In short, Your Honor, I have to finish this speech by saying, as when I started, that I certainly do not understand you, but it gives me the impression, for what it is read in some demoscopic studies, that most citizens do not know what direction you are taking in your party and what priorities you stand for from that bench. I told him that these income adjustments are minimal and, also, that they are fixed on many issues that have nothing to do with other countries with the fiscal pressure that ours has. Therefore, if you are so happy, you do not understand how, when it is proposed that we move progressively towards convergence, you directly despise it and vote against it. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, that all the political formations in this House are legitimate and that you do not have a convincing argument to explain why you do not support this draft budget, just as you did not have your support for the previous budget. I would invite you to withdraw the amendment as a whole, to sit down and discuss the items, to improve them - of course - and to try to contribute your own idiosyncrasy to the development of public accounts. As always, if anything remains of you as a moderate group, as you have presented yourselves, I invite you to sit with this Government in order to discuss the public accounts. Otherwise, if you do not, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue to think that you are still on that drift that you do not know well where you will be able to lead. But let us not forget, at this moment, the people who penalise the most is that one in politics is of no use. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be much more useful if, instead of always voting with the bench of the right and the extreme right, at some point you too would vote with the progressive majority of this Congress. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs. Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u109	Thank you, Madam President. What a change in tone, Minister! What a delicacy with the separatist parties, with Mrs. Nogueras! Let's go see her tomorrow with Bildu, see what words of thanks you find. Now, with Citizens, aggressiveness. You, with separatists, are always red carpet. It's a thing that really doesn't stop surprising me. Look, you paint here a scenario that is not real: the happy Arcadia, these budgets are wonderful, you don't raise taxes... Tell that to middle-class and working-class families, those who pay the light, those who pay the quota of self-employed, those who pay the tuition tax, those who pay the tolls, those who will pay the inflation. It is not even the happy Arcadia that you are painting or the catastrophic speech of 'let's all die' that has also been heard this morning. Madam Minister, you are not going to give cards of utility or moderation, because the only use you have right now is for Mr Pedro Sánchez; not for Spain, not even for yourself, is the use for Mr Pedro Sánchez. And I'm going to tell you one thing, Minister, you and I campaigned in the generals. Do you remember? Do you remember that you and I share discussions? Not someone from your party, no, you and I had general election debates. Do you remember what he was telling me when he told you they were going to pardon the thugs? Do you remember what you were telling me? Please, that the right had no other argument! Of course they weren't going to pardon them! And what have you done? Pardon them. [[Applauds]] Do you know who was the most critical person with the Bildu pact? The most critical person with the pact with Bildu, who was offended by the poor when asked in the interviews and said very well that no, was Mr. Pedro Sánchez in the election campaign. So don't come here and say it's absolutely normal to agree with Bildu, because the most critical of the deal with Bildu was you when you came to the elections to ask the Spanish to vote. [[Applauds]] You don't give moderation card. We're a liberal party. And what does that mean? We want low taxes, we want an administration that works well and is efficient. But when a law of euthanasia comes we adopt it but we improve it and when we talk about abortion, freedoms, disability, childhood or justice there are the liberals. And we are also in many places where, of course, you are not. Of course, when we have to choose the school for our children, the liberals want to be able to choose if they go to the special, if they go to the concert or if they go to the public. Liberals want women to decide on our body - yes, always - with regulation. We want you to regulate the cannabis and not look elsewhere. That's the liberal party in Spain! Do you understand that they have tried to fit Spain into two drawers - the red and the blue, the People's Party and the Socialist Party - that they have tried to leave a lot of Spaniards out and that we have often had to choose when voting between them because there was no party that will represent us? For now it is Citizens, the liberal party of Spain. Do you know what the problem of Spain is right now? That we don't have a Social Democratic Party, that we have a Sanchist Party, for Mr. Pedro Sánchez's greater glory. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, I will insist on the subject of the ALS, because it is extremely serious what you are going to say here. What you come to say is that every autonomous community does what it wants. That is, if a family that has the misfortune of suffering this disease - I have known very close cases, and it is the worst that can touch you in life - is in an autonomous community where it has given them the regular desire to have help, well, but if they are in the autonomous community next door, because they do not have help. And that is said by a minister of the Spanish Government, the most expensive government in history, with twenty-two ministries! Why do we need them if it is not to guarantee the equality of the Spaniards live where they live, are born where they are born, have what they have, think what they think and speak as they speak? What do we need them for? [[Applauds]] May that be the answer you've given me to the ALS... You have also put forward a budget veto for saying that it concerned the non-compete budget. Look, Minister, correct because what you said about the ALS is very serious. The Spanish Government must guarantee the rights. It is as if he comes here to say about dependence that, well, that each autonomous community does. What did the government do? It regulated the Dependency Act, guaranteed the equal rights of all Spaniards to live where they lived, and then each autonomous community manages the dependency. Well, exactly the same with the patients of ALS and a lot of things. Finally, Minister, do you know what's wrong with him? That what you like to have in front of you is PP and VOX, which you can get out Franco, which you can get out euthanasia, which you can get out cases of corruption, but, to us, you can't do it to us. Moreover, you cannot tell us that we always make an amendment to the whole, because it is not true, and you know it, as a councillor of the Andalusian Board, and you know it, as a finance minister. Therefore, the easy criticisms, which you have been preparing for forty years and which you make to the People's Party, I am sorry, but it does not serve you with the Liberal Party of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u110	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u111	That's his problem, he wants a Spain of reds and blues, and the problem is that we want a Spain for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, the first step in moving forward is to recognize reality. To be able to put a treatment it takes a diagnosis and, for that, one has to know how it is located, where it is placed by the citizens and how one can contribute, because it is legitimate, can contribute to Spanish politics. It is clear that what people perceive is that you do not contribute to Spanish politics. That is the problem you have, and if you want to continue in this area of politics as political formation, that is the problem you have to identify and you have to solve. I'm not saying it, Mrs. Arrimadas - believe me, inside the bench on the right I'm fond of you - it's what the demoscopic polls say. This has to help them, at least, to underline and emphasize that something is not doing right. And that does not do well is because I believe that you are not useful for what the citizens who voted for you thought you could use. This is what I believe; and I believe that there are good people who have been behind your vote and who thought that you might not have that sectarianism that the People's Party practices, but that you could - not always, but once - sit down and agree with other political formations, with other groups, when what you bring in, when what you put on the table is good. Of course, Mrs. Arrimadas, I'm not giving the card to anyone. I simply give you a reflection on the usefulness that people can see in you, but I will also not allow you to give identity cards, a card of legitimacy or of any kind, or a card of democracy or of the governments that we have to set up, or of constitutionalists, because you have spent three years handing out cards of constitutionalists, to those who were and to those who were not, believing that you had the element that allowed you to discern it in such a clear way. I think you just have to ask why you have leaks in your party, Your Honor. Well, probably because they don't identify with you, why it's hard to know the direction your political formation is heading. I'm not happy. I think you could have been an alternative to the climate of friction and the climate of tension permanently offered by the right. I told you last year and I repeat, you have missed a golden opportunity. Mr Rivera has already done so, and I do not think you have been able to do so since your political formation either. I have invited you to have the courage to correct this issue, and it seems to me very difficult that you can recover all that lost time and have a credibility that you would only have if, if it were by chance, by chance, by chance, you could support the proposals of this Government. I think it's good to offer alternatives and not to shout permanently that not everything. You say no to everything, and since we're so used to that coming from other ranks, you just confuse and dilute them. You abandon the speech you usually have when you come up here, Mrs Arrimadas, of the good and the bad, of the constitutionalists, of the separatists, of the very Spanish, of the nationalists, and you always clean of dust and straw. I told you in my first speech that you already have a service sheet; you can no longer come as if you have just broken into political life. What the Government of Andalusia does, what the Government of the Community of Castile and León does, what the Government of the Community of Madrid does, what the Government of Murcia does... Murcia, I didn't mention you Murcia because I don't want to offend either. [[Laughter]] It's a problem, isn't it, Mrs. Arrimadas? You can no longer present yourself as if you do not know what this is about governing a country, what this is about public offices being separated, at times, from legality, as has happened to you too, or what happens when alliances arise that are not exactly the ones that the national leadership decides. But I think the important thing is to make it clear what each one's responsibility is. I insist again, Mrs. Arrimadas, that I don't know why you tear your clothes. How can you compare health skills with dependent skills? Do you really want to tell me that you don't know how both competencies are financed? Don't you know that in the financing of the dependency there is a part that the state brings, for each dependent, and in the healing that doesn't happen? Your Honor, you have compared it and I would like to clarify it because I do not know whether, despite the fact that they govern in communities, they do not know that health care is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Communities. It's not that I like it; I don't tell it because I like it. Perhaps it would be good if the Spanish Government had other powers. It's not that I like it; I simply tell you that they are the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities and if you come here demanding a greater investment of resources... do you say no? You guys say no? [[Mrs. Arrimadas García and Mr. Bal Francés make negative signs]] Well, look, I'm not going to keep arguing on this side because it's clear that the Constitution hasn't been read by those who hand out constitutional cards. [[Applauds]] Exclusive competence. Your Honor, pass it on, exclusive jurisdiction. I was a health counselor for ten years, I know what I'm talking about; I know what I'm talking about ten years, I know what I'm talking about. There are games that improve mental health, science, depopulation, that help our young people, that fight school failure, but this does not serve you, that have a prefabricated speech since the beginning of the legislature. I conclude, Your Honor, by insisting again that I think it is good for you to reconsider what role you play in the political life of Spain, what you want to play in the future. Perhaps you don't mind diluting yourself into another political formation, I respect that. I regret that you have not occupied a space of centrality which I believe is a rather ambitious space for many right-wing formations who would like to have occupied it. Probably the mistake was in what I was commenting on at the beginning, in which you have been indistinguishable from the rest of the bench on the right. Therefore, Mrs Arrimadas, I hope you will withdraw the amendment as a whole, you are on time, and you are sitting with the Socialist Party to negotiate this draft budget. If you do, I think this country would appreciate it; even, some who have withdrawn their support, I think they would give it back to you. If you do not, you will continue on that drift that the polls say, that they say the studies of opinion, and therefore, Your Honor, it will have been a pity your step through political life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, whose members will defend their respective amendments or, if necessary, set a position - in addition, all of them will accumulate their speaking time - Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u115	Thank you, President. Minister, ministers, we are bringing you today an amendment to the whole based on three paradigms. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u117	The first is that of European funds, the second, from our perspective, is the lack of sufficient fiscal and wealth redistribution measures, and the third is the lack of sufficiently courageous measures against climate change from the territorial framework of the Catalan countries. We started with the European funds. You have said that they are very expansive budgets thanks to these funds and we have seen this, but the first question we want to ask you - we have asked the government several times - is which counterparts will carry the European funds, because, with the battle that your government has waged last week around labour reform, it seems that the agreement is that you are going to repeal only some aspects of that of 2012 and in agreement with Brussels. We don't know how this is going to end; I don't know if you can tell us. Then there are pensions, to which we will refer later, on which we also have many days of debate. If we are talking about European funds, we are talking about the rescue of the big corporations, because their government has made a real decree that is a kind of yincan that only manages to pass the big corporations - that is what the real decree establishes - because it is also those that have the ability to execute quickly. This leads us to the fact that European funds end up largely flowing to large corporations. Let me tell you that the consultant Deloitte, for example, was hired by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge to distribute the funds and at the same time by Repsol to try to aspire to these. So neither Green New Deal nor wealth distribution, as some of the most left-wing sectors of his party and Podemos say. Why? Because you don't regulate any aspect of the market, you don't regulate either that of rent - to which we will then refer - and in the new pact between capital and work it seems that work is losing. He's been talking a lot about EPA. Well, the EPA also says that 60% of new contracts are temporary and that the Spanish state is one of the countries in Europe with the most youth unemployment. We think you don't impose aggressive enough taxes on big corporations. In the midst of the energy crisis, you lower the excise duty on electricity to 0.5% and suspend the tax on the value of energy production until the end of the year. You have explained to us that the minimum corporate tax rate will be set because it obliges them to do so by the OECD, but also, as you said yourself, it affects 0.1 % of businesses. There is more collection because the economy has grown a little, but not because you collect from the big corporations. Besides, you don't put in a green tax, or at least we haven't found them. In relation to social issues and the reduction of inequality, which is a key element, there are more than 2.5 million people at risk of poverty in the Catalan countries. If we talk about the Housing Law - I want to first remember that you brought the Catalan law to the Constitutional Court and that you have presented another law -, it does not regulate rents and, moreover, gives a direct bonus to young people to pay rent; a bonus that, if you do not regulate the market, can end up raising rental prices. In addition, you make a 40% bonus for the big forks and a 90% bonus for the small owners who rent. If we were to talk about pensions and tackle inequality, we would have to talk about equalising pensions to the interprofessional minimum wage, because it is not that there is a shortage of money, it is that these gentlemen emptied the pension fund; we also think that we need to audit what has happened with public pension money. [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] We also want to talk about privatizations. You increase chapter 2, what are external assets and external hirings, five times more than chapter 1, what is that of your own staff. What does that mean? For you invest a lot in social spending, but a lot of that spending is going to go to outside companies. What kind of companies? Like the ones Mr Florentino Pérez has, who also picks up garbage like running social service centers, and this does not seem right to us. This is the neoliberal mantra that public service is not efficient. In addition, they go up the Defense budget, maintain 8 million euros for the monarchy and the debt has some interests that cost us the year 30 billion euros. If we go to environmental issues, the other great axis that we want to point out, and we talk about large infrastructures, you invest more than EUR 660 million in new railway infrastructure and more than EUR 440 million for electric vehicles. It seems that we will be able to go by flying taxi to our village rather than near, because the new railway infrastructures are new but not close. But if we talk about executions - it has already been said and you have acknowledged it - only 13.3% of the budget of 2021 had been implemented in Catalonia by mid-2021; in the Valencià Country, 16,1, and in the Illes, 37%. What you are going to do are macro infrastructures, and this seems to be quite tied up and often with the People's Party bench. You want to expand the port of Valencia, specifically you want to cover the sea of cement. You want to expand Palma de Mallorca airport. Majorca is an island with a million inhabitants and with the expansion of the airport more than 33 million passengers a year will pass. Or they have the will to expand the airport of Barcelona, which runs counter to the same Catalan Climate Change Act. And if we are talking about the more than EUR 430 million for renewable energy, we have already said, talking about European funds, that they are very likely to go directly to large companies; by the way, the same ones - like Iberdrola - that threatened their government to shut down nuclear power plants if they were suspended from emission reductions. Madam Minister, we believe that your budgets do not reverse the inequality of the Catalan countries or ensure sustainable mobility or a green, social and sovereign future. In fact, it is you cowards with those above and you are making a green transition for those who can afford it and not for citizens in general. And let me finish, Minister, by reflecting on the usefulness of politics. We find this question relevant because we think that doing politics is useful to citizens. I warn you that the argument of voting with the right will not serve us. You are about to vote, in the renewal of the Constitutional Court, in favour of a gentleman associated with the FAES together with the PP, so we are going to save this argument. Let's talk about the usefulness of politics. There are other political forces here, in the Chamber, Valencians and Catalans, who have another strategy. The strategy of Republican Left or Commitment is to negotiate with you. Let's see what happens when we negotiate with you. In the specific case of Esquerra Republicana, it allows the processing of the budgets of the year 2022 if you meet the commitments of 2021 and, moreover, you shield the Catalan language in the audiovisual. These are very important milestones for Catalonia and for Catalans and Catalans, but the problem is not the agreements that Esquerra makes, the problem is that you do not comply. They do not comply with European funds, they do not comply with Catalan. I'm gonna do something I never do. [[Shows a press clipping]] It is more typical of other speakers, but it is quite graphic: PSOE and Esquerra agree that all cinema is doubled to català per llei. Year 2005. Minister, 2005, her party's negotiating. And nothing happened and you don't do anything! We can talk about the lack of execution of 2021, to which we have already referred, or we can talk about the promise you have made up to three times, the pact with Bildu's colleagues and colleagues, that you will repeal the labor reform. It seems that it is not very useful to agree budgets with you. It seems that, from the perspective of the Catalans, the Valencians and the Catalans of the islands, this amendment is more useful to the whole. And let me turn now to the compañeros and compañeras of Esquerra Republicana, Junts per Catalunya and also Compromís: there is an alternative. Gabriel Rufián always says that the PSOE is forced to negotiate. And we very much agree. And in order to force the PSOE to negotiate, it is necessary to make common policy because we do not need an account that seems that Esquerra, if you do not comply, is negotiating to secure the budgets in Catalonia. We also do not need the strategy of Junts per Catalunya, which are very belligerent, but then they will agree to expansions of the airports with their ministers in the office. Making a useful policy in Catalonia is setting a date for a new referendum. To make politics useful the Catalan countries, comrades of Esquerra, of Compromís and of Més, is to make a common front for the defense of our people, of our people, against the big corporations and against a government that does not stop re-centralizing and makes very weak budgets with those above and very brave with those below. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, I have the floor, Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two ways of being unjust: one, it is out of ignorance or ignorance; the other, it is with knowledge of cause, and it is much worse. The President of the Government does not stay in these debates because he does not want to hear the spokesmen of certain territories. He said that in the coming budgets he sends more resources to the Canary Islands by adding the financing of insularity and remoteness, the REF, with ordinary funding, but cannot do that, is a deliberate injustice. The laws separate the regular financing of extraordinary funds intended to compensate for the insular event. For centuries, the Canary Islands had special and unique rules and all the rulers understood that living 2000 kilometers from the continent is very difficult, and when there was some despot that temporarily removed the Canary Islands, these special conditions, terrible famines occurred and people had to emigrate to other countries such as Cuba or Venezuela to look for bread. The Canary Islands today have a statute and a law of economic and fiscal regime in which the Canary Islands are granted extraordinary financing derived from their status as a distant archipelago. What does that mean? That remoteness and insularity are structural facts and that, therefore, the Spanish State will devote in each budget, and every year, special funding to compensate for these negative conditions. [[The Lord]] For what? For the Canary Islands to be on an equal footing with the rest of the Spanish; I repeat, equality, gentlemen of the Government. The Canary Islands are not privileges, they are rights. These budgets incorporate 27 billion European funds for reconstruction following the aftermath of COVID. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much you allocate to the Canary Islands, the most affected community, whose GDP fell twice as much as the Spanish average, which lost tourism and which has a unemployment rate that doubles the state average? What they allocate is 50 million for tourist infrastructure that they have always been, and that the socialists have removed and put back on. Shame, ladies! Canary Islands has the highest unemployment rate in Spain. If we talk about young people, 52%, and in women the percentages are overwhelming. It seems that the life and future of the Spaniards do not matter. Have you not read in the reports of the European Network to Combat Poverty that more than 373,000 people suffer from severe poverty on the islands? Severe poverty, gentlemen of the government. Do you know how many aids of minimum living income have been granted? 17,000. Given what is to come, the Canary Islands is the most vulnerable community because in some islands everything that goes out and everything that goes in depends on air and sea transport. The increase in fuel and freight costs can be the tip for our islands, but let the Canary Islands know today that this government has turned their backs on them, let them know that in budgets where public spending and investment are increasing, the Canary Islands are being mistreated in the worst way despite their poverty, despite their unemployment, despite their problems. The Canary Islands continues to have more than 3000 unaccompanied minors and this Government has done nothing, ladies and gentlemen. In the Canary Islands irregular immigrants continue to arrive week after week, in a drip that does not stop and that already has a sad balance of almost a thousand dead. The corporal. In these budgets there is no provision for La Palma. On 19 September it was the eruption and eighteen days later the budgets were approved. We understand that perhaps the magnitude of the catastrophe could not be predicted, but it is. The entire economic fabric of the island has been destroyed, two thousand people have lost their homes, there are eight thousand evicted, the infrastructures of water, roads, educational and municipal, etc., are under the lava. People are psychologically destroyed. That is why these budgets must now include the items for La Palma and for this reason I am addressing the Government and all political forces so that we can respond to the people of the island, so that they are not condemned - we cannot tolerate it - so that not only 17,000 people receive the minimum income, so that there are employment and training plans for young people and they do not have to go, as their grandparents went. That is why we say no and a thousand times no to these budgets, because there are no items in the REF, because there is no European reconstruction fund for the islands, because there are not enough items for immigration and, above all, because there are no items for La Palma. Until the Canary Islands and La Palma are treated in justice as they deserve, we will say no. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u120	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, Minister of Finance and Public Service. This budget bill throws Spain towards its social, economic and political ruin, which is why it rejects it with an amendment of the whole so that it does not prolong the course that began with the arrival of Mr Sánchez to the Presidency of the Executive three years and five months ago, and whose impacts today suffer society in terms of impoverishment, unemployment, inflation, price escalation, the folly of light and fuel, fiscal sangria and, as a colophon among other achievements of the accredited social-communist brand, an open debt. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2011 the eruption of Forum Asturias was accompanied by a motto that since then identifies our presence in the General Courts: 'More Asturias, better Spain'. Under this slogan, I repudiate broken budgets that increase the involution that for the lives of the Spaniards will entail a draft of public accounts that will lead us to succumb towards greater precariousness and socio-economic instability, all of which is marked by the government's contempt for the opposition and ministerial attacks on the powers and institutions of the State, because to attribute prevarication to the Supreme Court is far from the commitment to the democratic quality to which you alluded this morning in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have stated in detail in the text with which I made the request for a return, there are many and very different reasons for rejecting it, starting with the most transcendental: the transfers and concessions that are undermining our democratic system and that benefit palmarily those partners that support the government's policy, although they maintain a challenging attitude of bankruptcy of the Spanish Constitution, of territorial separatism, of insolidary grabbing and, ultimately, of the division between Spaniards; partners that condition their support to extrabudgetary pacts that have nothing to do with the figures, but with laws and rules that are adapted to the letter, although they deepen inequality and mark the passage to a substantial part of the government's legislative impulse, or, as is the case with the Republican independenceists, to bilateral negotiations with uncertain results as a prologue to the national claudication. Ladies and gentlemen, another element that justifies my amendment to the whole is the mistreatment of my home community, which is postponed once again by an executive whose management, combined with that which his autonomic counterpart, also socialist, perpetrated in the Principality, has already led the Asturians to very worrying rates of poverty. Also, the continuous delay in the modernization of infrastructures, as is the case with the roads, will cause Oviedo to continue for another year without its irrevocable and indispensable round north of circumvalation and that the Asturians of the southwest despair for the works at the pace of turtle of the highway towards La Espina. In railway matters, ADIF will consume in the variant of Pajares the cat per hare with the high speed permuted at low speed, which, moreover, will be very far away from the three main centers of population. On the other hand, the meagre investment endowment in the poor network of Cercanías will remain plagued by the paralysis of the Plan of integration of the railway in Gijón, whose agreement, agreed in 2019 and published in the BOE, now destroy with impunity some of its own signatories. A government that does not allude to acute Asturian needs and very acute problems such as depopulation and population collapse; the sharp youth exodus, fleeing unemployment, a record of the European Union; galloping ageing; the abandonment of the rural environment while the protection of the wolf is promoted from post offices or rules that run counter to the traditional model of family farms are devised. Asphyxiating is the carelessness around the electro-intensive industry and the dismantling in the name of what the Fair Transitional Executive will falsely call, which leads to desertification in the interest of an incoherent ecology that closes thermal power plants, but buys dirty electricity from those of Morocco, exporting our jobs without the planet having environmental benefits. In the budget oblivion follows El Musel, a huge harbour space with its competitiveness very paralyzed by road and rail links of the last century, in which hibernates without service for the ninth year a regasifier plant, as well as the suspension of the motorway of the sea that united us with the French Brittany until 2014. Another major port, that of Avilés, will also continue to be relegated from the Trans-European Transport Network, which should have in the Atlantic rail corridor, a priority similar to that which the Government rightly grants to the Mediterranean corridor, with width of UIC track. But no, it discriminates to the northwest by deepening a two-speed hemiplegic Spain. Asturias is an autonomous community of common system, Mrs Montero, which your ministry damages with the umpteenth postponement of the reform of the system committed here solemnly. This will be - the candidate Sánchez proclaimed in the investiture - the legislature of autonomous financing. But we continue as then, very badly, although essential services such as health, education or dependence depend on it. How will it be that autonomys of different political sign are allying themselves to face the deep...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u122	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u123	... the disparity in territorial treatment promoted by the Government to the greater satisfaction of its partners, the most infringing. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, to all and everyone. Madam Minister, there are times - as in this debate - when the need for new general state budgets is crucial, because it is not possible to tackle the tasks of post-pandemic recovery without a budget. For that reason, Nueva Canarias is clear that, although there is no perfect budget - and this is an improvement, we have no doubt - we cannot afford not to have a general state budget or to fight until the last minute, because our position is to criticize when we believe that it is necessary to do so, but not to get up from a negotiating table as long as that is possible. Another thing is that there would have been amendments to the whole with alternative text, that would have allowed us to know the position of some, what they would actually have done with budgets at the moment and perhaps we would have clarified ourselves more easily. The truth sometimes gives the impression that all the groups that we are here have received different budgets; when one hears certain formations he says: it must be that they send us different texts to all of us. In New Canarias, we believe that there are elements in these budgets that we share: the - generally speaking - expansive budget, with countercyclical policies, that is, against the crisis and not in favour of the crisis, as happened with previous budgets in which austerity was predicted only for the most vulnerable sectors. This is something that should not happen again and we believe that it is reasonably oriented in this budget. From the point of view of Canaries, Minister, you know that New Canaries is going to defend until the last second that there cannot be a single concept of our economic and fiscal regime - which is ours - that has no budget allocation, and we will keep that until the last minute. We also believe that we have made enough progress and that we have the guarantee that, in the process of amendments, we will make progress in that direction, because we lack REF issues. It is also true that the fundamentals are resolved in this project, starting from being above the average funding of the common system communities, which is an issue that was not fulfilled for thirty-five years in relation to the Canary Islands. And there are extra REF issues and one of them has to do with La Palma. What is happening in La Palma is an absolute catastrophe - I no longer have to convince anyone - and it is imperative that these budgets help to really act on the problems that palm trees have. It is imperative that the Insurance Compensation Consortium tackle aid to palm farmers, who are losing everything. It is also necessary to talk about the ZEC and clarify some concepts, such as the triangular trade in goods, which today is not recognized as an activity of the ZEC and can involve its destruction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u126	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u127	And I have a few more things left, but I don't have time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u128	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these budgets are a frontal attack on the middle classes. If you look at income, all independent agencies say that they do not conform to reality; therefore, they are not credible. If you look at expenditure, all those who agree budgets with the Socialist Government and We can say that they do not comply; therefore, they must not be very credible either. But in addition, those who are going to support the budgets will do so on issues that have nothing to do with the budgets; therefore, the budgets as such would not have a majority in this House. Another thing is that it suits you. And you say: No, here we have come to talk about budgets. Listen, but it's just that those who have agreed out of the budget have been you, who have agreed Catalan in Netflix, minimum living income and other things. It is you who have agreed outside the budgets, not the others. And besides, they're not credible. You say: No, with my budgets are delighted the self-employed, the middle classes, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Since when don't you get out of the official car? Have you talked to anyone out there? But don't you know that people don't get to pay for the light? Are these budgets going to fix that? Are these budgets going to make it up to the CPI not to go off? Are these budgets going to make up for inflation not to go off? Are these budgets going to keep the shopping basket from going off? Are these budgets going to make the Spanish even richer or poorer? For the poorest, and you have no measure to reverse that situation. And on top of that, they have no empathy with people to take this oversized government and shorten it. The least that can be done at a time when most Spaniards are having a bad time is to cut a government that is ineffective and inefficient. That is what they would have to do and take away, apart from ministers and ministers, advisers, from those who are left on all sides and who give them ideas that they better not be given. [[Applauds]] It is true that we are all here because we have been voted on - that is true - but, Minister, if the spokesman for Batasuna says that they are going to change budgets for prisoners, what would have to be done by a president of the government who is normal, who will not agree with them, that is to say that they will remain with their votes and that their budgets will not be voted on. [[Applauds]] That's what you'd have to do, because those people who call them prisoners, they're murderers. Those who call prisoners are murderers who have killed people for defending freedom in Spain. And that already gives you exactly the same, it seems normal to you, and not just that, but that you make a mockery of those who do not support you. They say: see that statesmen are these of Bildu who are able to agree the budget with us. But, listen, they have said it very clearly, that they do so because of what they do, as the investiture gave them and time has given us the reason to denounce it, because the truth is that the prisoners are in their places of origin and the truth is that they are being imprisoned and are being received as heroes. And you were talking about hate today, and so on. Hey, but you're making a deal, asking for a vote for the budgets and negotiating with those who are encouraging tributes to murderers! [[Applauds]] So, what do you say to the others? You can, of course, agree with whomever you want. He's gonna do it. But they have already told you: there were other opportunities. You didn't want to because you're delighted to make a deal with those who are making a deal, you're delighted! And what he cannot do is accuse the other half of not supporting these budgets - which are, of course, regrettable for Spain, and which has been shown from the point of view of numbers - and which, then, are against Spain. Look, being against Spain, being against the interests of Spain is a pact with those who have as their political objective to weaken Spain. They're telling you! They're doing it! And you're making a deal! They are in exchange, in this case, for Spanish as a vehicle language and they are in exchange for killers to be on the street. When this budget is approved with Bildu's votes, that budget will, of course, be legal, but it will be ignominy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u130	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u131	Good night. Thank you very much, Mr President. Last year, in this same debate, we said that while there is government, it has to govern, and for that it needs budgets. We already know that there are political groups that only intend to bring down the Government and, if not, at best, to deteriorate it in the face of the forthcoming elections. This is not the case with the PRC. Last year we approved fundamental accounts for the legislature and this year our main objective would, if necessary, be to help get out of the crisis and, above all, to implement European funds. On this last, Minister, I regret to say that exercise 2021 is being very disappointing. In general, it is a rather important failure and in the case of Cantabria, at least it is a partial failure in relation to its commitments. That is why, from the beginning of the negotiations on this budget, we have told the Government what is the condition for us to endorse these accounts. We have demanded that the commitments that were included last year be fulfilled through amendments and that they be fulfilled this same year, these next few days. That is why we have given up preparing significant amendments for what was scheduled for 2022. But, I insist, the important thing is that it be fulfilled, that it be executed. Look, management, good or bad, can't be easily hidden and people not only vote for feelings. We've known very well in Cantabria for forty years. They need much better management, gentlemen of the government. I do not know if you are aware that, in the end, non-compliances end up passing bills not only with the citizens, but with the partners. As far as the citizens are concerned, they will speak at the moment. Of the goodness of the budget you have already said enough. Of the evils, too, the opposition has said, especially the amendmenters; overly. I have already said publicly that, in theory, these budgets for Cantabria are acceptable. It is included Valdecilla, the Mupac and La Pasiega games, and the main investments in roads and railways committed in our agreement. However, there are a number of items missing that have told me - where appropriate - that are the result of some mistakes or omissions and that will be corrected in amendments. All this is a necessary condition, but not enough. I am waiting to receive before tomorrow's vote confirmation of the actions you know and, with this, you would get support from the PRC. And with regard to the overall budget, welcome is the increase in investment, which is the main driver of economic recovery in the short term and in the future. If we do not support construction, which is what we know best in Spain, we do not produce wealth, there will be neither welfare nor social spending and we will not comply with Europe. I hope that the Government will act with common sense and pragmatism in relation to everything I have just said. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u132	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr. Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this legislature, after more than 40 years of democracy, more than 40 years of article 138 of the Constitution, which states that the State will ensure the establishment of an adequate and fair economic balance between the various parts of Spanish territory, the Government defends that territorial cohesion and the demographic challenge are one of its main objectives. The most appropriate instrument to demonstrate that it is willing to move from words to facts, from the theoretical solution of the problem to measures with an effective structural impact on reality, is precisely the General Budgets of the State, and should be done not only with important items aimed at the demographic challenge, but also in all policies that have left the rural environment for decades, such as public housing, reindustrialisation and telecommunications. Also those that should develop all the infrastructures of the Pitvi delayed or paralyzed one legislature after another in the provinces of the emptied Spain, without which they are not competitive to generate development and employment, which brings them to more depopulation. The Project, for example, unreasonably delays the implementation of our investment agreements, which define an essential improvement in physical accessibility to the province of Teruel by not providing sufficient funds for the implementation of the A 68 and the Cantabrian-Mediterranean rail corridor. On the other hand, the Government cannot hide in the administrative procedures inherited in order not to design in time and form the A-40, a highway that must connect Teruel with the provinces of the south and the center of the Peninsula by opening an internal Mediterranean axis that vertebrae from north to south the eastern strip of Spain. We hope that during the procedure in the Commission the Government will accept those amendments by Teruel Existe, which are drafted on the basis of parliamentary and investment agreements. With regard to the energy transition, we believe that the budget must be turned in a decisive way into a better model for the whole country, for its businesses, for its citizens and for the rural environment, providing facilities and help to move towards collective self-consumption as quickly and as urgently as they ask from the Government and that of the promoters of large power stations to move in precisely the opposite direction and unfortunately without respect for the territory. Public money must be used to generate a better energy model for the whole country, not just for the benefit of a few, so that all your companies are more competitive. In other words, and finally, the European Commission has authorised operating and transport aid in the provinces of Cuenca, Soria and Teruel. It is important to stress that the European Union's authorization to have similar aid, curiously, to the territories of Lapland or those close to the polar circle shows the gravity of the situation in these three provinces, with less than 12.5 inhabitants per square kilometre, genuine demographic deserts, and that it is the European Union itself that considers this aid essential to reverse the trend thus generating more employment and development. Budgets include the intention to apply them in their last additional provision, 115, an important step but not enough, because we need to define how they are to be implemented, to be done also in the surrounding regions with the same population density and to be done as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u134	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u135	... in January 2022, because we have already lost more than twenty years and we cannot go on without action. In addition, all the other structural measures necessary to truly and once and for all tackle the fight against depopulation must be taken at the same time. This is the time and these must be the budgets of reconstruction and the beginning of territorial rebalancing in order to get a country that is clearly better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u136	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, I thank all the speeches, I think they have been very enlightening about the objective of your formations, as well as the way in which each of your ladies and gentlemen is sitting on the budget debate. Some, clearly, from my point of view, stand alongside the common interest and others, unfortunately, also from my humble point of view, with a partisan and unconstructive interest. A debate, ladies and gentlemen, which I hope will allow us, throughout the whole process of the budget, to reach agreement with those political formations which have expressed their agreement to proceed with it; I have no doubt that we will reach agreement and I am sure that their amendments will enrich this text. We are therefore placed immediately after the debate to sit down and see what issues we can incorporate into these accounts. In short, I believe that everyone has agreed that it is about opening up opportunities for young people, for older people, for women and for pensioners in our country, and also that the budget is an essential instrument for leaving the pandemic behind and taking advantage of the resources that come from the European funds. I hope that all your ladies and gentlemen, as I said, will at least share, whether or not they will present an amendment to the whole, the spirit of the budget so that, indeed, we can all be able to get our country out of the pandemic and do so in the shortest possible time. I would like to comment to the spokesman for the CUP that, even if it seems like a play of words - as she has moved - budgets do not serve as a currency of exchange, Your Honor. Budgets are not a tool that we can use to debate on other issues that are not reflected in the public accounts and, therefore, it cannot be accepted that in order to be able to talk about the welfare or improvement of investment in Catalonia we have to admit as a counterpart a number of other elements, because you know well that this government is far away, it is in the antipodes of such positions. However, although there are none of the members of the group, let me tell you that I have received a great deal of attention today, both in your speech in this rostrum and in that of Mrs Noguera, that you should endeavour to demand or claim what other political formation has been able to put into the draft budget because it has allowed it to be processed. I'm referring to the Republican Left of Catalonia. It is as if you are constantly trying to justify why you are separating yourself from a quite sensible approach, such as that used by Esquerra, as to which you may like the accounts and have legitimate aspirations, although it is certainly not my thinking, from other issues that have to do with the situation in Catalonia, but, obviously, it is not the same when a budget meets or does not meet the status of autonomy; it is not the same when it is fulfilled or not with judicial judgments; in short, it is not the same as being able to enrich, be able to contribute, that simply to position yourself as a spectator and to give cane to the one who allows the processing and, on the other hand, to demand that what another has agreed or agreed to be fulfilled is not the same. And the budgets are good for Catalonia, Your Honor. There is no doubt and this is expressed in each of its headings, EUR 2230 million for investments, although, as I said earlier in one of my ascents to the rostrum, we had to ensure - I told Mr Bel; he is not here now - that the budget implementation, which is frankly better. In any case, it has been a common problem, as I said earlier, with other territorial administrations. In the future, next year, from the first day, and we have agreed with Squerra Republicana, a follow-up commission will have to be made to see that the investments are being carried out and, if they are not done, to explain the reasons that may have led to this slowdown. Likewise, Your Honor, you continue to insist that these accounts do not serve to redistribute wealth, that they do not serve to transform the growing social inequalities or that they leave aside the position of young people, which leads me to think that you absolutely do not know the meaning and also the concreteness of this date. That is why these data, from my wrong point of view, make me think that you had a predefined position - which I respect - in relation to the processing of budgets; but what I do not think is that you invent that these budgets do not make a bet, which we have been moving since we presented them, by sectors as important as young people; for half of the population, as women are; to help reindustrialisation, as important for Catalonia, or by support for self-employed people and SMEs. You, on the contrary, say that the budget protects investment funds and IBEX companies, which is radically false. If there is one goal behind the numbers that is precisely to fight against inequality, to provide greater opportunities for all people, to put them at the center and to boost economic recovery, as I am repeating throughout this afternoon. Also, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the usefulness of politics seems to me to be very important. You said it was a debate worth having. Obviously, when one does not contribute, when one does not allow things to be handled, when with its constructive criticism it does not allow to enrich the draft budgets because directly, Your Honor, I believe that it is self-excluding from that policy which is as important as the approval of the draft budgets. I'm confident you'll reconsider your position. I insist, I believe, that this is a political position that is previously set and that has nothing to do with the money that this budget makes for Catalonia. You even despise that bet because you have ahead of you that aspiration which, of course, does not share this Government. With regard to Mrs Oramas, I believe that this budget is good for the Canary Islands. You have repeated throughout your speech ideas and constructs very similar to those I already heard you in the year 2020 regarding the 2021 budget. Canary Islands is one of the communities that has the largest investment in the next year's budget. If you have looked at the budget, you will see that the community is allocated 362.4 million for investments, the highest amount you have received in the last ten years. In any case, you have reiterated that catastrophic speech which I believe makes so little or no contribution. Canary Islands will receive EUR 471.4 million from the State through capital transfers, compliance with road agreements and other agreements that we have signed with the Canarian Government: 79% more than in the current budget. Also, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at these investments as a whole, you will see that they amount to 6.4 % of the regionalised total, well above the percentage of population or the percentage of contribution to national GDP. Therefore, the Canary Islands is well treated in this budget. On the other hand, I would also like to say that since 2012 there have been no amounts of similar size in the budgets. In fact, we have been working over the last few years so that we could really reflect in this draft the implementation of the REF in each and every one of its sections, beyond that Mr Quevedo over the period of amendments wants to make some contribution in one of the specific headings. There are also, as I said, 410 million for the road agreement, 542 million for subsidies to maritime and air transport, 50 million for the care of immigrants, 30 million for the fight against poverty, 47 million for the regular transport of passengers or 42 million for a comprehensive employment plan. Your Honor, you said that we had set a trap in the budget, which was to put the 200 million of the road agreement, but that is not true. I have just given you the figure, without including that amount, although of course it is included in the proposed budgets because it is appropriate to pay it. Therefore, little more I have to contribute beyond the 50 million in the Tourism Resilience Strategy and other issues. Now, Your Honor, I find it terribly unfair for you to say that this Government and that these public accounts are not concerned and do not deal with La Palma. [[Mrs Oramas González-Moro makes negative gestures]] That is what I wanted to understand, but, if you have not said so, I am glad, because the Government has already released 216 million, and also with great pleasure, to try to alleviate - it is difficult - the needs and expectations that citizens have in an area that has suffered so much, that continues to suffer today and that we do not know when the volcano will end its eruption. Also, ladies and gentlemen, we have approved a first phase aid package of EUR 10.5 million for 107 housing and basic necessities; and, in the second phase, EUR 206 million for direct aid and boost to enterprises for the recovery of the island, among which I would like to highlight EUR 63 million from the Training and Employment Plan, EUR 40 million to restore the socio-economic environment and EUR 5 million to finance the social services provided by the municipalities and the lobby. In addition, Mrs Oramas, Social Security has allocated EUR 80 million to benefits for 99,000 self-employed people affected by the pandemic or the eruption of the volcano, because it knows that it has been extended on the island of La Palma. A few days ago we authorized 70 million from the Contingency Fund to speed up the arrival of resources to those affected; in particular, these 63 who are going to finance this extraordinary employment plan and 7 million direct grants to the autonomous community itself to support the island's agriculture and livestock. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from the first minute forward, I support all the citizens of La Palma and the maximum coordination with all the administrations in order to act diligently. Do not doubt, Mrs Oramas, that we are allocating the resources that are necessary, over this year or next year, to restore, to give greater opportunities, to build housing or for any other type of device. Another thing is that, prior to this debate, you have brought your vote prefixed, as you have been doing since the beginning of the legislature; and therefore, despite the bet that the budget makes for the Canary Islands, so you have said, Mrs Oramas, you are neither with nor are you counting on when it comes to securing your shoulder. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I think you're wrong when you say that this budget is not good for Spain and neither is it good for Asturias. The bill - I will give you a data - allocates to Asturias 393 million euros for investments. This represents 3 % of the regionalised total, higher than the contribution percentage in national GDP, 1.9, or the share over population, 2.1. That is why, Your Honor, these are good budgets for Asturias, both in investment and in obtaining rights or benefits, and, as I explained this morning and throughout the afternoon, in what policy it affects. The per capita investment is 386 euros above the national average, which is 274 euros. In addition, they will count on the resources on account, the highest funding of the historical series, 2924 million, representing 5.9% more than in 2021. Then, you make a number of discussions on the draft budgets, although, I insist, it is the highest investment in Asturias in the last eight years, in which you do not appreciate the work that, with this budget, you try to contribute to the quality of life in dependence, in health, in education, in scholarships, in housing policies, in energy efficiency, in aid to SMEs, and all these policies go unnoticed to your lordships. They say no to the thermal bonus, which would benefit 32,000 households in Asturias. They say no to 357 million for their community, which also receive an extended unemployment benefit. They say no to dependency benefits and bonuses that will help young people to emancipate. In short, you are denying the progress in the autonomous community that you, at least in part of the population, represent. Twenty thousand people are going to have the minimum living income. Are you not concerned, Mr Martínez, that these people can increase the contribution that the State is making to them with the 3% revaluation? I understand that if you say no to these budgets, you are directly saying no to the community of Asturias. On the contrary, Mr Quevedo, I must thank you for the dialogue, the defence of the bill and its clarity in how you will monitor and ensure that the accounts provide sufficient investment for the Canary Islands and that they comply with the Canary Islands statute and also with the REF. I am particularly grateful that you have put into value the allocation of funds to the energy system, to land transport and to goods. I would like to remind you that the 75% bonus for air and boat tickets for residents or the allocations for the Comprehensive Employment Plan for the Canary Islands to combat poverty or for the Specific Options Programme for the Canary Islands, Poseican, is incorporated. Of course, as all the members of this House and you know, I am sure that you will incorporate some amendments in the process of processing, but I do want to say to you, Mr Quevedo - and probably by improving on the proposal for budgets that we put forward for the previous year - that, from our point of view, you have complied with all the provisions that mark the law, which mark the REF. We will be able to discuss whether the amounts are adequate or should be increased, but, frankly, I believe that this year we have checked that, indeed, all the content of both the statute and the REF are included in this draft budget. He is also aware that our intention is to exclude the Canary Islands from the 15% corporate tax limit. That is why we have given an wording which, as you have told us on some occasion, is better, we have improved it throughout the procedure, but the will is consistent with yours to exclude the Canary Islands from that 15% limit. Likewise, you claim departures for universities, for agricultural insurance. From this rostrum I tell you that you have my full readiness to agree on these issues and we will continue to work to ensure that this canary agenda is effectively reflected in all the work of the legislature. Mr Sayas, your speech today has also reminded me of the speech of the whole debate last year. [[ccccccccc]] You, I don't know whether conscious or not, repeat an intensity of disqualifications that sometimes prevent you from following your intervention. I would like to say to you, Your Honor, that I said earlier, that each and every one of the groups in the House represented here are represented because the citizens wanted it with their votes. You will like it more or you will like it less, just like me, but you have to accept that the Members who have taken the Minutes, who are sitting here, respond to democracy and the will of the people. Therefore, you know that the plurality of the democratic sphere obliges us to coexist with political formations that we can think radically different. I would like to say to you, Mr Sayas, that I, at times, find the disqualifications you make on this government and on my political formation unworthy. [[ccccccccc]] They seem unworthy to me. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry, Mr. Adanero. I do not think you had any other kind of word or qualification at hand, but whenever you intervene in this rostrum I have to tell you that, in fact, I believe that your disqualifications are unfair, I believe that your consideration of this Government does not represent or answer, at all, to any question that has to do with reality. In addition, I think, believe and share that this draft budget is good for Navarre, it has a budget of 77 million euros, two thirds are allocated at high speed, capital transfers for 17 million euros and, also, the activity of the companies will benefit from all the items that comprise this budget. I regret that this is always the tone of your intervention when you come up to this rostrum. And, of course, you are indistinguishable even though, as in some notice it appears, sometimes both you and the People's Party, indeed you have agreed with Herri Batasuna then, to be able to push forward draft budgets. So please don't come here and teach us lessons. [[Applauds]] In the same way, I also thank Mr Mazón for the tone of his speech, his willingness to the agreement. I'll give you the specifics. This budget includes very important amounts for Cantabria: 239 million, which represent an investment of 411 euros per inhabitant, higher than the average investment, which is 274 euros, as I have been repeating throughout my interventions. We consider in the draft budgets issues such as the Hospital de Valdecilla, to which 22 million euros are allocated; some others that his autonomous community raised, in particular, President Revilla, I am referring to investments in the industrial estate La Pasiega for an amount of 11 million euros; also to some others that came up from the Vice-President of his Government, like 11 million to finance investments in the Museum of Prehistory and Archaeology of Cantabria, a project that tries to be a tractor of the economy of his autonomous community. The same applies to deliveries on account, which are increasing, a variation of 7.8% higher than in 2021. These are social budgets, Mr. Mazón, for everyone, also for the cantabres and the cantabres. I would like to reiterate my thanks to you again. Of course, we will look at the amendments that your group is going to put forward. We always say that we do not consider that groups give us a blank check; it is obvious. We have to fight each of the issues that have to be incorporated into these public accounts. We will study the issues you have said in the rostrum in order to try to please as well and count on your vote in the final proceedings. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, please, we have little time left; that is what I understand from the Minister's intervention. [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u139	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u140	Excuse me, Minister. Please be silent so that the minister can continue with her intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Guitar, even though they're laughing, I'm not going to go unanswered. You deserve all respect. I also hope and trust that you have understood and appreciated the commitment made by this budget both by Spain which has been depopulated and by the demographic challenge. I believe that the more than 4 billion that cross-check these public accounts is a clear sign that the President of the Government's commitment is firm. The 130 measures that give rise to the development of the Plan for the demographic challenge, an input from all ministries and, as I said, a cross-cutting struggle so that we can really reverse this situation are envisaged. The figure, together with the figure we already had in 2021, amounts to 8.5 billion in two years. I believe that these are very important quantities and we have to be able to put them in value; also that the Spanish capital of the social economy has its headquarters in the city of Teruel and, as you know, that we have a space of reflection, and not only in our country, I hope that there will be a lot of participation from similar places, which will allow us to see how we really take advantage of the full potential of our territory, which count on the just recovery, so that they can be incorporated into the path of prosperity. I must also say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the attitude of the Government towards decentralization is decided. Precisely, we are doing so with locations of new headquarters in Soria, León, Ponferrada. We have revitalized the Ciuden project, a project that left the right when it ruled. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work for this social cohesion, for this territorial cohesion, by collecting, among other resources, 30 million for the Teruel Investment Fund and incorporating, as you said, an additional provision that will allow us to use the maximum capacity and the best efficiency of the prerogative produced by the regional aid map, which means that operating aid can be implemented within the shortest possible time, knowing that we have to make a distribution between the different administrations operating in the territory in order not to double them, coordinating the actions directed in this direction. As for the issues that have moved me, I am confident that we will be able to improve them during the processing. I conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the accounts and all the groups that have participated in them are trying to resolve inequalities; at least that is the aim of this Government. That is a debate to which we all have to contribute, which we have to overcome, because balance and equity among all the territories is the goal of the Government. This budget seeks equal opportunities on any other issue. Therefore, to those who have understood this objective, to those who have not tabled amendments to the whole, my thanks, and to all those political forces who have submitted them, I hope that they have served my explanations to resolve this unreal, catastrophic vision that they have of our country, that they know that we are asking them to contribute to the extent of their possibilities and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, I remain confident that we can reach an understanding. I know that there are some who do not want to do so and therefore, despite the calls, will not respond to it, but it does not matter, the Government continues to reach out to all political groups because the more support the draft budgets, the more capacity for transformation we will have in our country and, above all, the more capacity to bring well-being and hope to all Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government present.-Applause from the Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, addressed to her parliamentary group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-11-03-CD211103.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was nine and fifty-five minutes of the night.
