ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u2	Questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u3	Mr. Sanchez, welcome to this house a month and a half later. Your government's sadism is that, it's to point out journalists, it's to pressure judges and it's to block Parliament, but you're still in your campaign helicopter saying that the pandemic is generating transformative projects. But how can you say that with 700 dead a day, with 5 million unemployed, with 2 million in the queues of hunger! Where you pass does not grow grass, everything that touches goes wrong. There are already those who say that you are a gafe because you declare the virus defeated and two other waves arrive; put your sticker in the vaccine and stop it coming; announce green outbreaks and drop GDP to the level of the Civil War; order Illa another tripartite secret with Esquerra and make him accept in public the amnesty and self-determination table; present a decree of European funds and have to save them the Eurosceptics of Bildu and VOX. By the way, congratulations, you've been pardoned your criminal and illegitimate sambenite, that's right, in exchange for not being able to say that about the far right anymore, because you've painted your Frankenstein green. So much for taking the photo of Columbus and he's stuck in the photo of the Capitol. Any day we see him with horns of bison. [[Applauds]] But be careful to create another fund of reptiles and remember that the EREs ended up devouring their predecessors and here you have no curtain to hide. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] But the most serious thing is that, to hide this triler game, you destroy all institutional counterweights. Mr. Sanchez, I'm going to ask you a very direct question and I remind you that you can't lie here. Why has the report of the Council of State been extracted from the decree of European funds to conceal it from the Courts? It is the first time in democratic history that this is done and it is a scandal that can nullify the decree and that can further undermine the international reputation of his Government. You have already occupied the prosecution, the CNI, the CNMC, the CNMV, the CIS, the Spanish Television, the Transparency Council and even tried to assault the judiciary, but this is already the top. We now understand why yesterday the Council of State appointed Landelino Lavilla's vacancy and a new section was created without consensus and without publicity. Why do you want to distribute European funds without control? What do you want to hide? What wills do you want to buy? Is that why you've been rejecting the independent authority we've proposed to you for six months? Answer it before we hear from the Council of State. Today we have registered an official request for information and I remind you that it is binding. Stop setting fire to everything to hide your negligence. Stop touching the lira while it burns. Spain doesn't deserve a president like you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u4	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. I see, Mr Casado, that more than one question, what you have done has been to raise an opinion between questions. New year and you continue as last year, with the same bad shadow you've projected since you led the People's Party for two years to this part. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Mr. Married, really, listen to me, you ask me to resign Mr. Illa, but you also reproach me for leaving Mr. Illa. He asks me to trust but also to be suspicious; he criticises me that this Government does not refocus the powers of the alarm state, that is, the sole command, but also calls for more powers for the autonomous communities. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u6	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u7	It questions the fate of the European funds, but at the same time it asks me that these European funds will alleviate the effects of the debilitating Filomena in Madrid. But there's no one who understands you, Mr. Married! You vote no to the General Budgets of the State, you vote no to the state of alarm, you vote no, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applauds]] They are voting that no to the governance of the European funds and, look, you are so seemingly moderate that even Mr Abascal gives you lessons of responsibility with the country and state sense, Mr Casado. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Man! Your Honor, if there's no one who understands you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u8	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u9	Look, I'm just asking you... [[Protests Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u11	I only ask you, Mr Casado, to make a different opposition, to make a useful opposition, to see what the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group serve in this House. Moreover, Your Honor, not only a useful opposition but also an informed opposition. Because what you slip away from is that there are independent authorities in France, Italy and Greece is a lie. There are advisory bodies as there are here in Spain and that is what happens with European funds, Your Honor. Therefore, make a useful opposition and an informed opposition. [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u12	Mr. White Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u13	Answer the question. Why have you mutilated a report from the Council of State? Say it now or whoever's quiet, grant it, Mr. Sanchez. [[Several Members: Well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u14	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u15	Mr. Married, really, make a useful opposition. [[Protests]] Make a useful opposition, make a constructive opposition, Your Honor! [[The protests continue.-Mr. Postigo Quintana: The report]] Inform yourself, don't come here just to pour...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u16	Mr. Postigo Quintana, I call you to order!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u17	Inform yourself, do not come here simply to pour lies because it suits you, Your Honor. Find out, make a useful opposition and a constructive opposition. [[Rumors]] We ask for what we can offer, Your Honor, which is unity. Unit to save businesses, unit to save lives and unit to save jobs. And I hope, Your Honor, that during this session and from this year on you will change your opposition strategy, leave the provocation, leave the confrontation. [[The rumors continue.- A honourable Member: Shut up!-Applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT ACTING AGAINST THE GENERAL INTEREST OF THE SPAINERS? [[File number 180/00397]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u18	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u19	Mr Sánchez, why is your Government acting against the general interest of Spain? They have done so for a year now, having turned this House into a kind of black market in which national sovereignty is traded and handed over to the most advantageous bidder. They do so now in the Canary Islands with the complicity of all parties, condemning that land to mass immigration, to immigration, to insecurity in its streets, to ruin; condemning them canaries to the queues of unemployment while we see illegal immigrants bathing in the pools of hotels that have been closed to tourists and that lead to ruin to that land. You also attack the general interest, Mr Sánchez, when you applaud the censorship of the digital oligarchies against this political group for denouncing the insecurity and criminality brought by illegal immigration and the MENA. And you also act against the general interest when you incite from your government, from your party to hatred and violence against this political group and we are suffering in Catalonia from the stones and violence of a few who are directed. Because it is in the general interest that there should be free elections in Catalonia, Mr Sánchez. I do not ask your communist partners or your separatist partners to condemn this violence, it would be enough for me not to be sent to the energetics, as the Vice-President does and as the Generality of Catalonia does. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, despite digital censorship, despite violence, we will continue to defend the general interests of the Spaniards, defending our borders, demanding security on the streets, criticizing illegal immigration and demanding freedom for all Spaniards. We are going to do it on social media, we are going to do it in this Catalan campaign and we are going to do it in this rostrum of Parliament. And what we have said in this rostrum we are going to hang on social networks, to see if digital oligarchs too dare to censor the voice expressed in this Parliament. Because it is not my voice, Mr Sánchez, it is not the voice of VOX, it is not the voice of 4 million Spaniards; it is also your voice, it is that of all Spaniards, it is the expression of national sovereignty in this House that is at stake right now. And that is why I accuse you, Mr Sánchez, of not defending the interests of the Spanish because you do not defend our freedom, our sovereignty, our borders, our security or our well-being. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. You ask me whether or not the Government of Spain defends the general interest and I say yes. We intend to defend the general interest, for example, to deal with the health emergency, to give the autonomous communities - which are responsible for health - more than EUR 16 billion in lost funds so that they can cope with health costs, expenditure on dependency, expenditure on social services, and also expenditure on education. To defend the general interest, Your Honor, is, for example, to have invested over the past year and in what remains until next May more than 40 billion euros in the ERTE, in order to protect a great many workers as a result of the confinements, in companies and in very competitive sectors that have had to close precisely in order to prevent the spread of the virus. To defend the general interest is to work as we have worked throughout the past year so that in July we will reach an agreement that will make possible a great Marshall Plan that will allow the transition, transformation, modernization, in short, of the European economy and of the Spanish economy, with that digital transition, with that ecological transition and also with that prospect of threefold integration, both territorial and social, as well as of gender equality, of that modernization. In short, I believe that is to defend the general interest. Defending the general interest, Your Honor, is not what you do, which is to polarize, divide, confront Spanish society, when right now what we need is more unity. To defend the general interest, in our opinion, is not to lie and use social networks precisely to propagate that massive lie. To defend the general interest, Your Honor, is not to question democratic institutions such as this Congress of Deputies, calling those who do not think like you, Your Honor, good or bad democrats. Anyway, do you really believe that Bolsonaro or Trump have managed the pandemic much better than Merkel in Germany, Macron in France or Conte in Italy? Do you really think that's defending the general interest? Not in my opinion. However, I will tell you, Your Honor, that, regardless of whether the notion you have of the general interest and that we have is radically opposed, even at some flashing moments, you show more responsibility for the country and more sense of state than the leader of the opposition. [[Several Members: Let's go! Hala!-Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u22	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u23	In your reply it has made clear that for you national sovereignty, the freedom of all Spaniards, secure elections are not part of the general interest, and you do not defend it because you have only one interest, which is to remain in power at any price, Mr Sánchez. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: THE MINISTER OF HEALTH IN THE MIDDLEEST WORLD PANDEMIA OF THE LAST SIGNS? [[File number 180/00387]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u24	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u25	Good morning. Mr President, why do you consider it opportune to change the Minister of Health during the third wave of the worst pandemic of our time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u26	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, what bothers you most, that Mr. Illa ceases to be Minister of Health or that he is a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia? [[Applauds]] Three thoughts, Your Honor, in any case. The first reflection we have is a great Minister of Health, Carolina Darias, who is a woman who has been working side by side with the Interterritorial Policy Council for the past few months with the Minister of Health, Mr Illa. The second is that we actually have a great candidate for the Generalitat of Catalonia in Mr Illa, which what he is going to do in Catalonia is precisely to face the greatest economic, social and health emergency in the history of Catalonia over the last hundred years, as is happening in Spain, Europe and the world. And third, Your Honor, what seems counterproductive to me is that independence is the only thing that can offer Catalan society is more of the same for another four years, more of what Catalans have suffered over the past ten years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u28	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u29	Well, Mr. President, you ask us what bothers us. I'm gonna be tough because it's reality. It bothers us so much that they prioritize votes over lives, so much. The decision of the Government of the Generalitat to postpone the elections in Catalonia was not a political decision, it was a health decision. [[Rumors]] Calm down. In fact, it was not even a decision of the Government of the Generalitat; it was a decision of the entire Catalan parliamentary arch, except of you, of the PSC or, what is the same, of the PSOE. What a coincidence! And the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia gave them reason. Next time, report to the coalition. Data. It is estimated that 200,000 people among the confined or infected may not be able to go to vote. Euskadi and Galicia postponed their elections with 184 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Catalonia is around 600; it is not a political decision, it is a health decision. [[Rumors]] I'm gonna be tough because it's reality. Perhaps the judges, their judges, have called the elections, but I can assure you that the Catalans will decide who wins, and I can assure you that you will not turn the Generalitat de Catalunya into an office in Moncloa. And if I did grace, I would grace him and tell him that a gentleman - the Illa effect - who is not voted on in February or is not worth is an expired yogurt or is a deodorant. But it's not funny: 900,000 infected, 7500 dead in January alone. It's a terrible irresponsibility. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Rufián, you have done all you can to postpone the elections in Catalonia on 14 February, but now that you are being summoned you are giving yourselves up with fervor, because you are bringing your rallies to the House. I have to tell you, Your Honor, it's not true what you're saying. The one who convened the elections on 14 February was the Parliament of Catalonia, following the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy and the electoral law in Catalonia; that is the reality. You were unable, together with Junts per Catalunya, to agree to elect a president in the Parliament of Catalonia and, as a result, there was a technical call for 14 February. You chose the election date to be February 14th, no one else. It is therefore up to you and Junts per Catalunya, no other parliamentary group in the Parliament of Catalonia, and your inability to agree, to hold the elections on 14 February. I'll tell you one thing, Your Honor. Mr. Illa doesn't go on vacation to Catalonia. Mr Illa returns to Catalonia to face the greatest economic, social and health emergency in Catalonia's history over the last hundred years and also to overcome a confrontation, polarization and division of Catalan society which has only brought down to Catalan society. I hope next February 14th, as you say - I pick up the glove - there is a change in Catalonia, you move on and please let Catalonia look to the future and stop looking to the past. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT IS THERE A RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MINISTERS' DIRECTORAL FIGHTS AND THEIR FRAMEWORK IN THE RESPONSIBILITY OF COORDINATING THE GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00392]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u32	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u33	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, your government is incapable, a mismanagement. You govern against yourself on the basis of the minimum wage, labor reform, equality laws, the free bar to the Okupas. The living example of this is the live explosion of Minister Escriva on account of pensions. Meanwhile, Podemos bursts the Minister's plans, points to journalists and, in addition, threatens a general strike against his own government. Your Honor, you are responsible for coordinating this government of factions, cliques and cliques. And less bad that VOX came out to his rescue last week. At the time when it was most clearly wrecking its project, when it looked at the precipice with the Peronist decree of the European funds, the saving hand of VOX appeared. [[Rumors.-Laughter.]] Mrs Calvo, do you have the opinion of the Council of State on European funds? Do you keep it in a drawer? Faced with the clientelism that you well know of your times at the Andalusian Junta, when the government was subject to a question of confidence in this Chamber came to its rescue Bildu's clamp and his dear ultra-right. [[Applauds]] Yes, Madam Vice-President, you have been very weak in thanks. What I hope here today is that in your reply you welcome, as you deserve, the new partner of the Frankenstein coalition. Madam Vice-President, what is the relationship between your alliance with VOX, the daily fighting between your ministers and your disastrous coordination of the coalition government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, have you heard? You are on election campaign from the night of November 10, 2019. It must be the tiredness they already have; calm down. The Democrats are not worried about the discrepancies because we are putting all the energy into dealing with the agreements. It's as democratic and as normal as all that. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u36	Madam Vice President, you haven't answered me. Where is the report of the Council of State on the decree of European funds? The price we pay for their internal fights is very high. While you are devoting all your efforts to fighting among all of you and to concluding agreements between Esquerra and Illa for the future tripartite, Spain is suffering the third wave of the pandemic. We've outrun the 90 000 dead. Don't you think it's time to have a serious and coordinated government to fight this tragedy? Less sticker and more vaccines, Madam Vice-President; less talk and more direct aid to companies that still survive, despite their abandonment. Are you going to do something to hold your shoulder for the 5 million unemployed Spaniards? VOX and Bildu have saved your government but unfortunately neither you nor your government are able to save the Spaniards. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u37	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, you were only missing a group from this House - your natural allies, everyone knows, there is no need to explain it - to point out, from the point of view of the democratic depth of what we represent the three hundred and fifty seats, to put them on the point of view in a decision you have taken, and it is here that there are legitimate seats, which are yours, and illegitimate, that we are all the others. They have to check it out. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: The report!]] You three years ago - soon will - live only under the law of the funnel; the wide, of course, for you. That in a year where this country has suffered the most important crisis you have voted against everything: the alarm decree, the budgets, the European funds. [[Rumors]] They have stood up against your country and you, Mrs. Gamarra, have a curious idea of what it is to coordinate a government,... [[Several Members: The report!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u40	... working in a government right now, anywhere in our country, which is usually with coalition governments; with coalition governments exactly like their own party, two parties and one behind. [[Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: The report!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u41	Mr. Hispan! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u42	But I'm going to tell you one thing so as not to bitteren you the question coven you've asked here today, so as not to bitteren you. You see, in this government, that in just one year it has mobilised funds, legislation, budget, mobilization in Europe - against the work that Mr Casado is doing against Spain - do you know what has not happened? [[Several Members: Hala!]] One thing we saw all the Spaniards of a government of your party, that to see what name you're going to put on it: the members of the government, some of them didn't even talk when there were cameras. Name it yourself. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEODOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT AND MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030: DOES THE SECOND PRESIDENT CONCERN THE WELFARE OF SOME SPANISH WHO IS NOT A OKUPA? [[File number 180/00393]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u43	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030, by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Iglesias, did you or Mrs Calvo draw up the report of the Council of State because it warned of the serious illegalities of the decree of the European funds? Who gave the order to the President of the Council of State to keep it in a drawer? They are obviously uncomfortable, they have not answered this question. Mr. Iglesias, one thing is to be extreme left and another to be a ungrateful, and I believe that if VOX has placed 140 billion euros in your hands to spend without control, man!, the least thing is for you to thank them this morning. Because today we already know that all their confrontations are pure theater, the motion of censure was fire because VOX and the government are needed and are fed back. The Frankenstein government has a new member, so let's welcome him because VOX has moved from getting Sánchez to investing him for the rest of the legislature. Besides, let's face it, you guys have swallows. They have swallows because the same vote with VOX the 140 billion euros that yesterday voted with Esquerra amnesty, self-determination and whatever it takes. Because it has become clear that Mr. Illa's preferred partner is the Republican Left of Catalonia. Mr Iglesias, VOX has extended your contract as vice president for three years while 5 million Spaniards cannot work. Are you worried about the welfare of the unemployed or are you just worried about the Okupas? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u45	Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Your Honor, I care about the unemployed, I care about the people who don't have access to a home and about all the Spaniards. [[A Member: The report!-Applause.- Rumours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u47	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u48	Thank you, Madam President. The Lomce is already wreaking havoc on the government, they are called questions because you have to answer, but we have three unanswered. Where is the report of the European funds of the Council of State? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Answers, gentlemen, or do they conceal any illegality? Mr. Churches, you point out media and journalists as being sold to power, but the only one sold to power is you. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Totally]] You are sold to power because you criticized the bill for the light and now you keep quiet; you denounced the sewers and now you are part of them; you wanted to raise taxes to banks and technology and now you are paid by users and savers. [[Rumors]] You're a power-solder who was excited about the Civil Guard attacks and now you can't live without their protection. [[Rumors]] Remember I used to point out to Rubius, but now you're shutting up with your mouthpiece convicted of not paying taxes to Social Security. The People's Party is the alternative to a government that defends the Okupas and evicts the owners, such as its own. We are the alternative that defends the free press in front of people like you. Because, Mr. Iglesias, they now have a new partner, VOX is the partner with which the government looks forward to the future with optimism. Sometimes it saves Otegi, other Puigdemont and other Abascal. Because Sánchez's government was born with Podemos, grew up with Bildu and now survives thanks to VOX. Thank you and tell us something about the report, Mr. Iglesias, that you are very brave, but... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u49	Thank you very much, Mr García Aegean. Mr Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr García Eggea, the question you have registered is: Does the vice president care about the welfare of some Spaniard who is not okupa? [[Protests.-A Member of Parliament: The report! The report!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u52	I have answered the question you have asked. [[A Member of Parliament: Now, now!]] If you want us to talk about housing policy and I will tell you what principles this government's housing policy is going to inform, I will tell you and I will also tell Blackstone and anyone who needs it. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution says, Your Honor: 'All Spaniards have the right to enjoy...'
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u54	'... of decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation.'. If you want me to answer something else, register a different question. [[One Member: Where is the report?]] I have the feeling, when I hear your speech, that you are preparing the parliamentary speeches... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u55	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Respect those who take the floor and do not hide behind masks, because they are equally recognized. [[Applauds]] I ask you to remain silent. Go on, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Aegean, the way you do your interventions - I told you once - remembers the way you make a Dadaist poem: you grab an argumentary, cut different things, put them in a bag and everything comes out. The problem with that is that it leaves you with a lot of seriousness as an opposition. The logical thing is that in this... [[Mr. García Eggea shows a card that says:]] Don't you have the feeling that you're doing the ridiculous thing by pulling out a little card and making gestures from the seat? This is supposed to be a space for political discussion and people realize, Your Honor... [[Mr. García Aegean makes gestures]] What are you doing, Your Honor? [[Rumors]] Your Honor, we in the government do politics, you do ridiculous things here. [[Applauds]] - THE DEPARTMENT OF TOMAS HOUSEHOOD, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE THIRD MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT REFORMS HAVE BEEN COMMITTED TO ACCOMMODATE THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO CHANGE FROM THE EUROPEAN FUNDS? [[File number 180/00394]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u57	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Tomás Cabezón Casas, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u58	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, last Friday, following your appearance on the European funds, there was unanimity among the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups on the lack of concreteness in their explanations. Mrs Calviño, we are playing with the arrival of EUR 140 billion and you, in the meantime, in the government, are in the fight, in the leaks and in your ego struggle. In short, instead of a government you each day look more like the house of trouble. Madam Vice-President, what reforms have you sent to Europe today? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u59	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u60	The truth is that I thank you for the question because we are finally talking about something that is important for the future of the Spaniards, and it is the Recovery Plan, which has to be one of our priorities in the coming months, very important not only in the short term to boost recovery, but to transform our productive model, modernise it and achieve more sustainable growth in the medium and long term. Your Honour, as you know, this is a reform and investment plan which, of course, must have a coherent programme to accompany the EUR 140 billion in public investment over the next six years with a package of reforms that are not new. These are the reforms that we have been pushing for over two and a half years; they are the reforms that the European Commission and the international institutions have been recommending to us in recent years; they are the reforms that we have continued to push last year in parallel with the response to the pandemic in the field of education, in the field of science, in the field of green hydrogen, in the field of the Climate Change Act, in the field of the business climate; they are, in short, a set of actions that you know well because they are in this Parliament and because they have been fully explained by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u61	Mr. Header.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u62	Madam Vice-President, a new opportunity to make the reforms work. You looked like the orthodox, the moderate, the one you knew, but today you show that it's more of the same. Today, with this answer, it proves to have the same merits as Irene Montero or Alberto Garzón. Qualifying EPA data as very positive when there are 7 million Spaniards who want to work and cannot define it, Mrs Calviño. Socialist gentlemen, Mrs Calviño, you always return to the same orthodoxy, that of the Republican Left. How do you think Europe will understand, in full negotiation of funds, that the Socialist Party will enter into an amnesty and self-determination meeting with the Republican Left, Mrs Calviño? I will ask you six specific questions to see if you are able to answer them: have you forwarded the report of the Council of State to Brussels? Yes or no, Mrs. Calviño. Have you sent Europe the complete repeal of labour reform? Yes or no, Miss Calviño. Have you sent Europe the extension of the contribution period to thirty-five years for the calculation of the pension? Yes or no, Mrs. Calviño. Have you sent Europe the €30 billion pension cut that Escriva announced this weekend? Yes or no, Mrs. Calviño. Have you sent Europe what you call fiscal modernization, which is nothing but a blast to the Spaniards in their pockets? Yes or no, Mrs. Calviño. Have you sent Europe the increase in contributions to the self-employed? Yes or no, Mrs. Calviño. This is what the Spaniards want to hear from your mouth: the cuts you are planning for Europe. Mrs Calviño, why do you reject the independent authority proposed by Mr Casado? Why does this Frankenstein government, with its new partners, VOX, not want transparency in the distribution of funds? I will tell you, Mrs. Calviño: they want clientelism in Moncloa and they want the Minister of Finance, involved in the ERE, handling the cotharro. It's embarrassing, Mrs. Calviño. We agree that Spain can, of course, those who cannot be you, and that every day they know more Spanish. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u63	I give the floor to the third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u64	Your Honor, I'm really sorry to hear your reply. You started very well with the first question and then you've already let yourself be carried away in a vortex of insults, mixing concepts, lies and absurd things that have nothing to do with it. [[Rumors]] I'm sorry because we're talking about a country project where we all have to row in the same direction. That is why the Government has been working for so many months with the European Commission, the social partners, the political groups, the Spanish society as a whole, companies and experts to try to have the best possible plan and put it into effect as efficiently as possible. That's the important thing, Your Honor, and the rest, including what you've been pouring in these last few minutes, is noise that doesn't contribute to anything. [[Rumors]] I hope this is really the last time we have to devote our time and the time of all Spaniards to confronting us instead of working together for what really matters. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT GOING TO DO BEFORE THE SERIOUS EMPLOYMENT OF THE SPANISH ECONOMY? [[File number 180/00398]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u65	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u66	Madam Minister, out there the Spaniards are getting to know new and increasingly worrying economic data every day: a fall in the gross domestic product of 11% - which is the biggest fall in peacetime -, more than 700,000 people in ERTE and more than 750,000 new unemployed in the private sector, in total 5 million people who are not working; that is, you have created 120,000 jobs in the public sector, which is the only industry growing in these times of crisis, the public, which you continue to feed, but, despite that, four out of every ten new unemployed in Europe are unfortunately in Spain. We are recording the world's worst economic performance in terms of unemployment, falling gross domestic product, consumer confidence, attracting foreign companies and confidence throughout the country. Madam Minister, when you said that we were not going to leave anyone behind, you were right: there is no one left behind Spain; we are the worst in the world, Madam Minister. What will the Government do in the face of the serious deterioration of the Spanish economic situation? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u67	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u68	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, after almost twelve months immersed in the crisis, I believe that we all have to make 2021 the year of recovery, and our priorities are absolutely clear in that regard. First, continue to fight the pandemic effectively and to deploy vaccination. Secondly, to avoid structural damage to our productive fabric and our employment with investments, with reforms and with all the help we have been giving from the very beginning of the pandemic and which we will continue to give to support this productive fabric and to have a basis for recovery. Thirdly, to deploy the General State Budgets and the Recovery Plan, which is so important for the future of our country. These are our priorities, and we are working on them 24 hours a day; this same week, extending, for example, the moratoriums on the repayment of appropriations in the most affected sectors, including tourism and transport. That's what we all have to be working on in the future. I take this opportunity to say to you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that when you talk about public employment, I have many doubts about what you are talking about, because public employment is health, it is education, it is the police and the safety of all Spanish citizens. [[Applauds]] I have no problem in saying that we are strengthening the welfare state in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u69	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u70	Madam President, you were reasonably well until the ideological burden had already had to come in and you were unable to avoid it. Look, Spain was working before you guys got here. There was already healing before you arrived, you didn't make it up. I recognize that you have increased it in a brutal way, but not health care, public spending. You are able to spend 100 million euros on official cars. You sound able to spend 450 million euros in the Ministry of Equality so that Mrs Irene Montero will explain to the ambassadors of Spain how to treat a transsexual; it would be funny if it were not because the ambassadors of Spain something more than Mrs Montero know about how to treat people. When the left governs, it is true that it does much harm to the economy. If it is a moderate left, it does moderate damage; if it is a radical left, it does radical damage, and you are doing radical damage because you are a radical government, because you are in the hands of extremists and, unfortunately, the structural reforms you are talking about do not sympathize with the reality of what is happening in this country. The early Spain, Madam Vice-President, is drowning and cannot keep waiting with this word that you are going to do things that you then do not do. You're wasting public money. They are increasing by eight hundred million the public office allowances that are reliable and are squandering and wasting money that the Spaniards no longer have. It is urgent to reduce the size of the State; it is urgent to reduce taxes; it is urgent to reduce the barriers for those who create jobs; it is urgent to compensate for trade, industry and the services you have prevented from continuing to work. And if you don't know or don't want to, leave before Spain breaks down for good. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u71	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u72	Your Honor, since the first day the pandemic struck us, we have been acting with determination to support all the Spaniards, and you know it well, because the measures have been validated by this Congress. We have invested EUR 40.8 billion in direct aid to businesses, workers and families' incomes and we will issue EUR 15 billion in public debt in order to respond effectively to the pandemic and strengthen education, health and everything that makes up the well-being of our society. These are determined measures that we have been implementing since March and that allow us to protect a basis on which to promote recovery. Your Honor, you know perfectly well that all this effort that is being made by all the Spaniards is dedicated, precisely, to ensuring that no one is left behind. In that we will continue, with those priorities that we have clear, and I hope to be able to count on their support, because, as I said earlier, we are talking about a country project for 2021 to be the year of recovery. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: DOES THE CLANDESTIAN TRAFFIC FROM CANARIAS TO THE PENSION OF IMMIGRANTS WHO IRREGULARLY BROUGHT INTO NATIONAL TERRITORY DESERVE AN EXPLANATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT THAT IS ADJUSTED TO THE TRUTH? [[File number 180/00384]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u73	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last week you incorporated VOX into the weaving of European funds. Where is the report of the Council of State, Minister? And this happened yesterday, Minister: in the Canary Islands, we can express your absolute tiredness of the Ministry of the Interior in immigration policy. That's what their partners say, so imagine what other people think. That their management in immigration is a chaos is not an opinion, it is a fact: uncontrolled transfers and thousands of immigrants in hotels with a government that neither appears nor makes decisions. What do you expect to solve the situation in the Canary Islands? Canary Islands is neither Lampedusa nor can it be, Minister. Who authorized immigrants to travel to cities that were confined? Now we know that there were more than two thousand transfers when you from the first day said - you lied - that there were no transfers, Minister. Immigrants who didn't have documentation, how did they travel? What did the government do to them? Why was the confinement not carried out in cities that were confined, Minister? Why did they sneak up on you? Why did you lie? A month ago you ran away from Congress. Answer now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u75	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. I see they were trying to separate a little bit from the extreme right, but the question you ask is the same one that makes the extreme right, as you will see. It seems that in human rights they are very close. I did not, of course, flee from this Parliament - you seem to be a bit of an anti-system today too - but I was accompanying the king and the victims of terrorism to his majesty. Finally, there has been no illegal transfer of immigrants from the Canary Islands to the peninsula. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u77	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u78	Minister, a respect for the victims because when you finished that act, you had not started the monitoring session. Stop lying to this House. A respect also to this House, Your Honor. You lied in the pandemic. He lied about immigration. When did the lie begin to appear in you, Minister? In the transition from a good judge to a political evil? Or are you simply worthy of imitating Mr. Sanchez's lies? Your Honor, do you think it's normal that you don't let us in the Members of the People's Party to Barranco Seco and leave Bildu? Who stole your decency, Mr. Marlaska? What are they turning him into? And now you go and agree with ERC that table of indignity that breaks the coexistence in Catalonia knowing that it goes against the Constitution. Mr Marlaska, you should have appeared on the matter of immigration transfers here since minute one, when you skipped the scandal of flights to Granada and Barcelona, but you didn't. He threw the ball at Mr Escrivá, who also did not want to pick it up; he did not want to appear in Congress and sent himself with a tweet - many tweets, Minister, in the government! - saying that he is careful with police complaints on the subject of immigration because they encourage xenophobia. No, Minister, that cannot be said from the Spanish Government, because the police are here who are working to end xenophobia and fight against the mafia. Respect her and our respect will be earned. Thank you very much. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Bravo! All right!-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u79	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rojas. I see that he continues to pursue a policy of a fatty brush on such an important, essential and state policy issue as immigration. That's why, when we arrived at the government, in June 2018, we started to do immigration policy again. I don't hide problems. We have had and have had a serious issue in the Canary Islands with migration; a serious issue, resulting, inter alia, from the pandemic, the closure of borders and the economic and social situation in countries of origin and transit in sub-Saharan Africa. That is why we have to work with structural policies and that is what is being done. Work is under way on the fight against the mafias, as you have recalled, with the police and the Civil Guard, giving more means, giving personal and material means, and not with those 12,000 troops that were lost during their seven years of government. We continue to work with agreements with countries of origin and transit and are working with civil organizations. Your fat brush policy manifests itself in the request you made to travel to Barranco Seco and to go to Arguineguin. Of course, all institutions have the right to control the Government, but you should ask for it and request it as appropriate, through the Internal Affairs Commission on which you are a member and the Bureau of Congress for the whole Parliament. He was, of course, the High Commissioner of this House, the Ombudsman, and was UNHCR. We do not hide reality and effectiveness. I tell you again that we continue to do immigration policy, with an interministerial commission, working continuously, reducing the entrances. It is true that last year in the Canary Islands, as we said, there were more entries, but they are being faced, and the consequences we have today, when the problem is being faced within the framework of the European Union and with levels of effectiveness and efficiency that the world knows, making politics on a difficult issue, but that is a challenge to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, Mr Vox, of the parliamentary group, which expresses to the Minister of the Interior: will you guarantee that the Catalan electoral camp will develop without violence on any of the competing candidatures? [[File number 180/00399]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u82	Question by Mr Francisco Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u83	Minister of the Interior, will you ensure that the elections in Catalonia can take place without violence against any of the competing candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u84	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ortega Smith. I would like to recommend to you on this occasion that you follow all the parliamentary debates, because one quite similar to the present, in relation to the competences of the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of the nation and the competences of the autonomous communities, took place on 24 June last, on the occasion of the elections held in the Basque Country - Euskadi - and Galicia. Then I answered your candidate today in Catalonia, Mr. Garriga. In the area of security, in a complex and complex country and, in particular, in Catalonia, with an integral police, this function corresponds substantially, with coordination and cooperation, to the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u86	Mr. Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u87	Minister, first of all, I would ask you not to be ungrateful to the opposition minister, Mr Casado; you do nothing but mess with them and they do nothing but say on the radio that they admire the Socialist Party and that they understand each other well with their president. [[Applauds]] We must treat just those who praise them. Minister, 30 January, VOX event in Mataró: harassment, egg throwing and threats. January 30, Gerona: throwing stones, spitting, assaults and insults; assaulting a member of our communication team. Day 30 of January, Balaguer : insults and threats; attempts to silence by megaphony. [[Leasing]] January 31st, Sabadell: assault on an affiliate and an organic charge; damage to sound equipment; kicks on an affiliate; threats and assaults on the local police; resistance to authority; a detainee, son of a councilwoman from La Crida. January 31st, Reus : insults, threats and attempts of aggression; egg launch. [[Tarragona]] January 31st, Lérida: insults and threats. February 1st: insults, threats, harassment and attempted breaking of the police cord. February 2nd: insults... Am I still? There is not a single act of VOX that we can develop in freedom. Look, this isn't Maduro's Venezuela, this isn't Castro's Cuba. We want free elections. You are the Minister of the Interior and, therefore, I ask you to mobilize whomever you have to mobilize. Probably, if some parties had listened to us many years ago and the nation's government had regained competition in citizen security, the mossos would not have police commanders who prevented them from acting effectively. Freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, political freedom and democracy are at stake here. Minister, this is a very serious matter. His ministry has to take letters on the matter. He has to tell his partners, his parliamentary support, that they will allow elections to be held without the harassment of the gentuza of the CoR and without the harassment of all the totalitarians who harassed our police on 1 October and who now harass the citizens who want to go to the events freely. This is a real shame. While you continue with that phony speech that there is freedom and democracy, there is a part of Spain that lives under the boot of totalitarian separatism and... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Ortega Smith. I have to tell you that, sadly, it is becoming a classic that VOX, the far right, every time elections are held sows doubt about electoral processes, and it gives me much sadness after the images that we have all been able to see recently in one of the great democracies. It even scares me, it scares me. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member utters words that are not perceived]] Democrats are not afraid of fascism. [[Applauds]] I remind you that the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia are autonomous elections organised within the framework of the autonomous Catalan community's self-government. Secondly, that the participation of the Ministry of the Interior is clear that it is cooperation and coordination through the Directorate-General for Internal Policy in logistics matters; we also intervene in coordinated security matters, but with the main competence of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Look, I think this is an important moment for you, within that enumeration of facts - all the acts of violence are deplorable - to recognize the work of genuine professionals, such as the mossos d'esquadra, in ensuring the security and freedom of all parties that are running for elections in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY IN AIR TRANSPORT TO THE PENINSULA OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS PROCEEDING FROM CANARIES? [[File number 180/00377]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u90	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u91	Thank you, Madam President. What is the Government's responsibility in the migratory invasion of the Canary Islands and, in particular, in the transport of illegal immigrants by air to the peninsula?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u92	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. As you are perfectly aware, the Ministry of the Interior - I repeat, as Mr Rojas said - does not organise, does not finance irregular migrants' transfers from the Canary Islands to the peninsula. As we have seen and seen, in this supposed difference of opinion you have already come up with positions as essential as human rights and migration policy - a policy of state - of what you, all of you, are quite far away from. [[pointing to the right side of the Chamber]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u94	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, 23,000 illegal immigrants have arrived in the Canary Islands in the last year according to official figures, i.e. a genuine migration invasion for which this government is responsible, which has renounced its defence of our borders and whose incompetence and frivolity constitute a permanent effect called. It is a so-called effect that a government minister in full invasion says that Spain needs between eight and ten million immigrants or that the United We can - which is government - demand the regularization of all illegal immigrants living in Spain or that the government facilitates access to minimum living income for those illegal immigrants and, of course, the peak of the so-called effect is the image of those 7000 immigrants housed in hotels with full board and swimming pool, an occurrence that costs us Spanish 300,000 euros a day while here the queues of hunger grow. And the summit is already the sequence: hotels and flights, with arrival at the destination airport and immediate release to move freely through the streets. Hey, it's the most perfect promotion campaign for the interests of the mafias and the NGOs that support them. You come to say that the Ministry of the Interior has nothing to do with all this and, moreover, that it would be illegal, but Minister Ábalos, who is sitting next to you, while you were saying that, acknowledged that there have been some timely transfers, and Mr Ábalos's timely transfers end in Mr Escriva's recognition of 2500 transfers and an investment of 11 million euros. Who funds and organizes these flights? I mean, the misadjustment and the usual lies. That is why the problem is growing, Morocco is crushing them, the Canarian tourism industry is ruined and hundreds of desperate neighbors have to organize themselves to defend themselves from the aggressions and thefts of which they are victims daily. It is the result of the buenist discourse of a useless government that has left the Canary Islands to their fate. You, Sanchez and Iglesias should be ashamed of themselves. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u96	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I repeat that we have been carrying out migration policy since June 2018, which had not been done before. I would remind you that the year 2019 has reduced irregular entry by 50%; in the last months of 2020, it has increased, but everyone here forgets what I have said on more than one occasion: the effects of the pandemic and the closure of borders. I remind you, however, that we are already doing a return policy, that the police and the Civil Guard, of which you spoke, with the means that we provide them, which are the necessary and precise, fight against the mafias both in Africa and in Spain. Entry opportunities and these flows are reduced by 50 per cent before they leave Africa. That's a lot of questions, but you guys like the fat brush. Whenever we want to continue talking about migration policy, because that is what this Government is doing in a constant way. This is the first time I've heard of migration policy in this legislature. Allow me to share a reflection with you on migration policy. I open quotes: In these matters we must all act with rigour, the sense of commitment to make a state policy, with the will to give reality in the concrete policies of immigration and alienation to those values that our Constitution defines, values of tolerance, values of solidarity, values of pluralism. Do these words sound familiar to you, Your Honor? Because I always remind you of your past, they are words spoken by you in September 1996 when you were a spokesman for the Interior in this House and clearly talking about immigration. What a pity, Mr. Gil Lazarus, to see your radicalization! What a pity, Mr. Gil Lazarus, that what were state policies to you are simply tavern speeches! What a pity - I tell you sincerely - to see that you have been trying to turn these plenary sessions every week for many years into something completely... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF MR CARLOS GARCIA ADANERO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN PRESENT Is there any action to be taken to comply with the motion adopted by the Parliament on the 21st January in which it urges it to implement a penitentiary policy that facilitates the approach of the press? [[File number 180/00386]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u99	Question by Mr Carlos García Adanero, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the agreements between the Socialist Party and Bildu to obtain the Presidency of the Government of Spain and the Presidency of the Government of Navarre there was the rapprochement of prisoners of age and the whitening of the terrorist gang itself and the Bildu party. In this regard, does the Government of Spain intend to continue bringing terrorist prisoners closer together? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr García Adanero. In prison matters, the Government, as it has already reiterated in this House on several occasions, will in any case and at all times limit itself to the application of the law. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u103	Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. You are approaching the Basque Country and the Foral Community of Navarre, to the nearby prisons, to murderers who at the time were killed, were tried, were imprisoned, who from the prisons were celebrating other murders that, in no case - said recently, moreover, by the National Court itself - have had any regrets; on the contrary, you are proud of your membership in the terrorist band ETA, you are proud to have killed. When you come back, you're welcomed as heroes, and you don't do anything either. That's happening today. In addition, they will ask - they have already asked - the prison powers, so we will find that in a year or so we will have the murderers walking through the streets of the Basque Country and Navarra trampling on the plaques that have been put in memory of the murdered and they will be enjoying the freedom that you are giving them. And it is said: And does Bildu condemn ETA terrorism? But how will you condemn him! But it's just that already the misery comes to such a point that it's no longer that they condemn ETA terrorism, it's that they now call on the killers to participate in the future of the community! It's just that you call them and you keep making a deal with them and don't even hurt them. But not only that, but they say: and violence - a very light way of calling terrorism by name, terrorism and murder -? They say: No, the violence was legitimate. Let's write the story and you'll help write the story. That is, you are allowing the murderers to walk the street, to receive them as they please, to write the story, to continue without condemning ETA and to appeal to the murderers to participate in the future of the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community. That is entrepreneurship and an indignity for the Spanish as a whole. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u105	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. García Adanero. I see that we have two absolutely different ways of understanding and knowing what prison policy is. It follows from his comments that prison policy and prison law must be mere recommendations, a guide of good practices that we take as we wish and at the time we wish and as we are politically interested. And perhaps that's why in 1998, while ETA still existed, the then president of his party and president of the Navarra Foral Community, Miguel Sanz, said - I open quotes -: In that generosity Navarra will be and to the extent that the truce is consolidated and we can talk about definitive abandonment of violence, we can talk about other issues such as prison policy and reintegration. What does this mean? All to the letter. From your intervention in general, from any public intervention of yours, it is clear that prison policy is anything but application of the law and constitutional principles. But we understand prison policy, as I have told you on several occasions, in a very clear way in the application of the law. First, we understand that our prison system is based on the individual classification of prisoners and on the various grades. Secondly, that this study of the degrees of compliance corresponds to the treatment boards, with the periodicity established by law, and always under the control of the judicial authority, which you often forget. And, as I say, we're going to limit ourselves to applying the law, as we're doing. In this House I have heard many times saying: You apply the law. I'd miss more! That's what you said. What's the alternative? Don't apply the law? Do you know what it's like not to apply the law? Not applying the law is to put forward the political and partisan interest, really forgetting the victims, forgetting the values that make us strong as a democratic society, strong to defeat ETA terrorism, strong to continue working with the constitutional principles to which we dedicate all those we believe in democracy. [[Applauds]] - the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda: how does the Government intend to comply with the resolution of the European Parliament on the revision of the guidelines on the trans-European transport network adopted in the month of December? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[TEN-T]] [[File number 180/00389]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u107	Question to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how does the government intend to comply with the European Parliament's resolution on the revision of the Trans-European Transport Network guidelines adopted last December?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u109	Minister for Transport, Urban Agenda Mobility.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u110	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. Basically, the resolution you are referring to is addressed to those Member States that have not yet sufficiently adapted their national transport plans and programmes to the objectives of the Trans-European Transport Network. The purpose is to remedy these shortcomings without undue delay, with a view to implementing and complying with the deadlines, targets and timetables laid down in Union legislation. And, as it cannot be otherwise, from the ministry we work and will continue to work in all areas to fulfil our responsibilities and obligations as set out by the Trans-European Transport Network. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u111	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u112	Mr Minister, that resolution calls on the Member States to speed up all the works included in the Trans-European Transport Network and also places special emphasis on cross-border areas, in the case of the so-called Basque Y. That resolution revised the guidelines for the implementation of the trans-European network and is motivated by the finding of delays in several States. It was also noted in the European Court of Auditors' report on infrastructure for 2020. Moreover, that resolution emphasises that the European added value of these projects is a key factor in generating public support and points out - and is important - that their completion is a priority before 2030. We are particularly concerned about the delays in several phases of the draft responsibility of this Government and, above all, those affecting the Basque Country. Of the works that are being carried out in a management commission to the Basque Government, we know that they are on time and will be completed by 2023. However, we know that the informative projects of the access to Bilbao of the high speed train were sent by his ministry to the Miteco, to the Ministry for the Ecological Transition for the issue of the environmental impact report in September 2019. For its part, and with regard to access to Vitoria, exactly the same has also happened, with the report being forwarded in February 2020. The same also happens with the Vitoria-Burgos section. Although the deadline for the issuance of such reports should not exceed six months, today is the day on which they remain unreported and - even worse - their ministry has not sought explanations for their delay. As you are well aware, the issuance of such reports is a requirement for the drafting of such constructive projects and, given that both works have very long temporary execution scenarios, we have serious and well-founded doubts as to what the completion scenario of the works is going to be. Tell me, Minister, what is that scenario going to be? What will be the stage for the completion of the works of the Basque Y? Are you going to be able to guarantee what that completion is going to be? Will you be able to ensure that its completion is before the end of 2030, as the European directive points out and is required by the European Parliament? What efforts have you made to meet the commitments of agreed execution deadlines that can guarantee such works? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u113	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u114	Thank you, President. We are working very closely with the European Commission in the process of revising the guidelines for the Trans-European Transport Network. In fact, we have initiated a joint assessment of the current legislation - and we are placing a lot of emphasis on the sustainability of digitization - and we hold regular meetings, we participate very actively in the existing forums and committees. The aim of all this is to work towards a TEN-T regulation by the Commission in the third quarter of 2021. In any case, for your peace of mind, I must say that, within the framework of the institutional collaboration that we are having with the Basque Government - we have had several meetings, the last one I think remember that in November - we are reporting on the progress of the projects and we are all aware of the difficulties that we have. You have asked me some that have to do basically with environmental assessments, which obviously do not depend on this ministry. And yes, I can assure you that we are very high because they clearly affect the evolution of the projects, but I would not have to ask myself about this, because we agree on it. In addition, you know that we have a section that is Burgos-Vitoria, for which I have already been asked in the Senate, and we are in exactly the same situation, wishing that the information study will be completed and that the environmental assessment will be completed. You are also aware of the understanding that exists on the part of the Basque Government and of the commitments that exist, especially with regard to railway integration and, in particular, with regard to this other section. Of course, we do not give up committing ourselves to those deadlines, even though we know the difficulties. But I think we should not relax because, otherwise, it would be almost as much as stimulating our own delay. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES HE CONSIDER TO COMPATIBLE HIS PROMOTION TO WATCH AND WATCH THE CONSTITUTION WITH THEIR ARRANGEMENTS RELATING TO THE EXISTENCE OF EIGHT NATIONS IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00396]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u115	Questions to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u116	Mr Iceta, the time has come, now that you are a minister, to reject or confirm your delusional assertions about the existence of eight or even nine nations within Spain; the recognition of the right to self-determination to the autonomous communities; or your demands on the Government - which seems to be beginning to bear fruit - to pardon politicians convicted of sedition and embezzlement of funds, who do not repent and who have also announced that they intend to commit a repeat. Mr. Iceta, you're in light years of the Constitution. Does it intend to rectify or, on the contrary, does it maintain that it does not respect our constitutional framework, as, on the other hand, it is the usual vocation of this Government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u117	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u118	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Montesinos. Everything I have done in politics since 1978 has always been within the framework of the Constitution and, even more, will be my executor as Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u119	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u120	One more example of the cynicism used by the Socialist Party with the Constitution: what you have just said. There is no such unpromising start for a minister who assumes a portfolio as a consolation prize. He replaces a minister who, in turn, has replaced Mr. Illa, who, in turn, has been the one who has ridden you as a candidate for the Generalitat. They signed between the three a circle of incompetence that begins with a chaotic decoordination of Mrs Darias, which surrounds the worst health management of Mr Illa's whole Europe pandemic, and which closes with a stupendous failure of you as the first secretary of the PSC. Because you have danced untied to the sound of independence music; this is the only Iceta effect you have left in Catalonia. [[rumors]] Like VOX, you are a sad pawn on the board of the Frankenstein government; you have left everything tied and well tied so that Illa serves as a squire and a comrade of Republican Left at the service of a new tripartite; a tripartite that you should know is the origin of all the evils of Catalonia, absolutely of all. And now he comes here, from a golden retreat to the Council of Ministers, to complete the task that left Mr Illa unfinished: the table of self-determination; the pardon to the coup - because you are the ambassador of all of them - and the plurinational deverberation of Spain. Look, Mr. Iceta, they're not fooling anyone at this point, absolutely nobody. It is well known to all that the PSC and the Republican Left are the same, because Sánchez at the time chose the independenceists, the Republican Left, to be able to rule. You are using and expressing Catalonia to the fullest to stay in the Moncloa. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u121	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor. I see them far from the government, because having such a pejorative concept of what it means to sit in this bank, I really see that as very complicated. [[Applauds]] But allow me to justify my assertions. I will read you a paragraph of a ruling of the Constitutional Court which reads: 'In the context of the democratic State established by the Constitution, it is obvious that, as we have reiterated, it is appropriate to have as many ideas as possible to defend themselves without resorting to the infringement of the procedures established by the Ordinance for the formation of the will expressed in the laws.... In particular, it is possible to defend ideological conceptions which, based on a certain understanding of social, cultural and political reality, claim for a certain community the status of national community...'. This is what our Constitutional Court says. It is a doctrine that I absolutely share. And speaking of the year 78, who said that nation and nationality was the same was Don Manuel Fraga Iribarne, name that will sound to them. [[Applauds]] I must tell you for your peace of mind, if any, that I distinguish perfectly between what the nation is, as the depositary of sovereignty, what the nation is as a community that seeks to self-governance and has a great sense of identity. So, don't worry. However, I would like to recommend that you read the statutes of autonomy. In eight of them you will find, in article 1, your definition as a nationality within the framework of the Constitution and, therefore, also within the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. You tend to expel everyone from the Constitution, all those who do not share your narrow, boring view of the Constitution; it is not my case. I believe that we all belong in the Constitution, and it will not be this minister who will expel any Spanish citizen from constitutional coverage whether or not he shares his ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LAURA BORRÀS CASTANYER, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: HOW DOES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION THINK TO RESOLVE ALL THE INCOMPLEMENTS THAT ACCOMMODATE THE STATE WITH CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00388]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u123	Question by Mrs Borràs Castanyer, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u124	Thank you very much, President. [[Start your intervention in Catalan]] The wallet is well deserved, Minister. After an entire professional life dedicated to politics, nothing better than territorial politics to put into practice the federalism that you have practiced with so much devotion from your party; a rhetorical federalism, which has never been implemented, because federalists only exist - or were - in Catalonia. You will see that here in Madrid the federalists either do not have them or are asymptomatic. When the Constitution quotes federalism, it is precisely to prohibit it. In any case, we are convinced that you will be able to overcome the adversities presented to you. Our question is: How do you intend to resolve all the breaches that the State has accumulated with Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u125	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u126	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Borràs, for your good wishes. I hope to be lucky, but I hope to be even more right than lucky; luck is very random. [[Applauds]] In any case, I would like to say that with Catalonia, as with the rest of the autonomous communities, there is a will and a path of cooperation and cooperation of this Government, of working together in the service of the citizens. It is a currency of dialogue, negotiation and pact that, of course, I am committed to follow. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u127	Mrs. Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u128	Thank you. As the right ones shine for his absence, so I wished him luck. But I should also have asked you whether your Government has the slightest intention of resolving non-compliances in a practical manner. Because much confidence does not inspire a Republican government that protects the monarchy, a federalist government that re-centralizes competencies and a progressive government that does not move a finger to stop repression. This federalism, republicanism and progressiveism are also asymptomatic. But, as we trust in your coming to office for a radical change, you know that promised investments that do not arrive, budgets that are not met and investments that are not executed harm all Catalans equally, whether or not they are independent. And the financial mistreatment and social harm that it entails affects all Catalans. These budgets allocate almost two billion in investments to Catalonia, a figure lower than in 2001. However, since 2013, the Government of the State has only implemented one third of the investments it has budgeted. All those investments that have not been implemented the Chamber of Commerce figures at an equivalent of 3.3% of GDP or 115,000 jobs. The list is long, I know it well. You cannot claim ignorance, certainly incompetence, like that of your Government, as the European Central Bank has shown in this report. There are so many people losing their jobs and you haven't done your job. They called us irresponsible for warning us that their budgets were useless to help people, and today Europe confirms that futility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u129	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u130	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Borràs, I have to tell you about the budgets for this year that you are meeting with Catalonia, with your expectations and with your needs. If you said it just me, you could say what you're going to say. But I ask you to ask for your opinion from the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, which did not have a commitment to approve these budgets because, among other things, they complied with Catalonia, and they also complied with all the Spaniards, with their expectations and with their needs. You tell me that this government is incompetent, that it does not comply. Look, this Government needs an interlocutor equally committed to dialogue. President Torra, whom you will admire and remember, told us that his strategy was confrontational. When an autonomous government has a confrontational strategy, it can hardly claim that agreements are reached. Moreover, in one of his speeches at the end of his term, President Torra revealed to us - thank you for the sincerity - his conception of autonomy. He literally said: Autonomy is the main obstacle to independence. We're in antagonistic positions. For us autonomy is the best guarantee for the best service to the citizens of Catalonia and all of Spain. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE. WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES OF THE NEW MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC SERVICE IN RELATION TO THE SITUATION OF CATALUONE? [[File number 180/00390]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u131	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Iceta, what do you think should be your Government's priorities in relation to the situation in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u133	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u134	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I'm pleased to agree with you again. My priorities as a minister are going to be exactly the same as the President of Congress when she was, the Minister of Health when she held this portfolio and Minister Luis Planas, who also performed this function for a while. And, of course, it will be the ones that the President of the Government marked in the investiture debate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u135	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u136	Thank you. Mr Iceta, you have just acknowledged that you have been in politics for forty years and we have had plenty of time to know what your priorities are. And yesterday it became clear, because yesterday you approved to resume again the blackmail table for after the elections. To talk about what? The same as always in recent years, the referendum of secession and the privileges for the leaders of the process. Do you know what that means to what you approved yesterday? It implies that you are recognizing that in the next Government of the Generalitat you are going to be with the Republican Left of Catalonia because, if not, why is that blackmail table going to be needed, for Mr. Carrizosa to talk to you? No, he's not going to talk about privileges to the separatists. Or for Mr. Iceta to talk to Mr. Illa? Is that why we need a table? No, you have already said with whom you want to govern and what you want to prioritize, the same issues as the hamster wheel of the last years of the process. And I say to him, this is not dialogue within the law, Mr.Iceta, this is listening only to those who skip the law: Junqueras, condemned; Puigdemont, escaped; for them, privileges and care, and for citizens who abide by the law, hard hand and not one is passed on to them. Do you know who's gonna be at the table? You're probably a junkie, but do you know who they're not going to be? The self-employed who have been ruined without direct aid, the families who occupy their home, the companies that have had to leave Catalonia, the elderly without a place of dependence because the money goes to the process. I'm just asking for honesty. You have been the muñitor of the two tripartites with Esquerra; you defend the pact of the president of your party, Mrs Núria Marín; by the way, accused of corruption with the party of Puigdemont, not with Esquerra anymore, with that of Puigdemont. It's usually that, when you're right xenophobic, if you're separatist, then you don't mind ruling. Look, the doubt is no longer whether you are going to make a tripartite or not if you give them the numbers, the doubt is if you are going to give them the numbers, I trust not. I am sincere, Mr.Iceta, I want for the first time a Constitutionalist government, that would be a change, not a tripartite one with Esquerra. I want a president like Carlos Carrizosa, who will prioritize - and you know it - social and economic issues. I only hope that on 14 February you will not pretend to deceive many constitutionalists again in good faith and that on 15 February there will be no table and there will be a future for all Catalans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u137	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u138	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. I believe that politicians can be classified in many ways, I usually do so in one: there are politicians who are dedicated to solving problems and others who are dedicated to making the problems work. I find myself among the first and I wish that the better we could be in that column. In Catalonia there is a problem, and I think that does not deny it either you, and there is no problem of the kind that we have been living in Catalonia for a long time that is not resolved through dialogue, there is no other way. Therefore, we are ready to have dialogue within the law, as announced by the President of the Government in his investiture debate; there is total and absolute coherence. Let me remind you - as you and I live in the Parliament of Catalonia very regrettable episodes - that since there has been a government of the Socialist Party and the United Nations, we have not had any illegal consultations or illegal referendums or the adoption of illegal laws or unilateral declarations of independence. [[Applauds]] Logically, that is not only our merit, but something will have to do with that willingness to deal with problems by dialogue with everyone. We are humble in this; we are aware that an incident can happen at any time that forces us to act, but, of course, it will never be our initiative; our initiative will only be in dialogue, a transparent dialogue, of course, that conforms to legality and that does not deny anyone some of the prerogatives that the laws offer them. I have come to listen: it is that the pardons do not have to be dealt with. Do not invite you to overrule this government because it will not do so. We strictly comply with our obligations, with the gaze placed on Catalan society and on the whole of Spanish society. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WILL YOU IMPLEMENT SOME EFFECTIVE MEASURES AGAINST COVID-19 OR WILL YOU CONSISTRATE IN THE NEGLIGENCY OF YOUR PREDECESOR? [[File number 180/00395]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u139	Questions to the Minister of Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you going to push any effective measures or will you persist in the negligence of candidate Illa?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u141	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, I am going to follow the path with a clear objective, in coordination with the autonomous communities since governance, which is the fight against the pandemic, to move forward in the vaccination process and to stop the spread of the virus. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, congratulations, you have begun your candidacy for the presidency of the Canary Islands. In this very House we announced and warned the Spaniards that their party was planning to use this crisis to make Mr Illa a candidate, and time gave us the reason. The philosopher Illa will be remembered as the worst minister of health of Spanish democracy, but also as the one who enjoyed and who used the largest pandemic in history to precisely pave his way to Catalonia. The Spanish must know this and must know that Mr Sánchez is responsible, because he now has VOX's lifeguard and because the Socialist Party in Catalonia is equal to independence, as we saw yesterday at the dialogue table. We now have it in the ministry and today it has made clear its intention to follow the path set by its predecessor. We assume that he will therefore continue to hide the number of deaths, the committee of experts and the criterion for the distribution of vaccines. You, Minister, have been a silent accomplice to the disastrous vaccination plan, as well as to the unequal treatment of Spanish citizens according to who their government was, watering the Catalan vaccination campaign these days. Minister, you also have the opportunity to rectify and you can start by offering transparency, but also start by closing the doors to the virus, not only at airports, but also on trains or buses from abroad, although some would settle for you to stop the sabotages of Zendal, to open the hospital in Toledo and for your ministry not to jump through the air like the hospital in Valencia. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret that the Socialist Party has not found a health expert to deal with this pandemic, but, despite everything, my group wishes you all the best, essentially because we are living in it. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u144	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u145	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Echaniz. I would like to share with this House that my predecessor has done a great job, and has done so in unimaginable circumstances, and not always with the support of his parliamentary group. I therefore gather your words and hope that now your parliamentary group will not put sticks on the wheel, but will join the war on the virus, which is a war in which we all have to be and also your parliamentary group. Of course, Illa never ceased in this endeavour and neither did this minister. The epidemiological battle has no borders and is difficult to overcome, because the virus feeds on our most human conditions, which are our affections, hence the importance, Mr Echaniz, of taking those measures that we know are effective. Therefore, my support to all the Autonomous Communities, all without exception, and I hope that you will also do so without exception from any Autonomous Community. But being this important, it will agree with me that the main measure, in which life is now going to us, is vaccination, is our horizon of hope and, of course, for the first time Europe has taken a lead in that early buying strategy that places us in a preferred place in the world. By the way, in this vaccination process, which is the priority objective that this minister is going to have, I also hope to find the complicity of her group and the whole House to ensure that we are more and more people immunized than people infected. Just a month ago we started the vaccination process, they'll remember that September 27th. Today there are already 1.6 million people on administered doses, more than 400 000 with the second dose and therefore immunised. This February, 2.3 million BioNTECH-Pfizer and Moderna vaccines will arrive, of course, at the expense of knowing what is going to happen with AstraZeneca and also with Janssen's permission. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, I propose that you join us in this fight against the pandemic, which is a war without truce, and that you join us in an important way, because we need to reduce the transmission of the virus and we need to continue to drive this vaccination strategy, which I would like to remind you that it is a shared strategy between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities, with the most equitable criteria for the target population, and we are going to do so with maximum transparency, Mr Echaniz. I pick up the glove and hope that we can work together you, your group and the whole House at this new stage. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u146	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UNDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT ACTIVITIES DOES THE GOVERNMENT HAVE PROVIDED FOR TO AVOID THE EXCHANGE OF VACUNES PROVIDED BY THE SERIOUS UNEMPLOYMENTS OF THE PHARMACEUTICALS? [[File number 180/00385]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u147	Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u148	Madam Minister, I understand that we can share many common issues when it comes to finding solutions, and above all the challenge of vaccinating 70% of the population in the shortest possible time. I think we agree that the vaccine is an essential good of public interest, that speculative business cannot be done at the expense of public health, that pharmaceuticals, especially AstraZeneca, have received billions of public money, and that blackmail to force the European Commission to accept the 50% reduction in deliveries in the first quarter is not acceptable. I think we share these bases, and he asked: what action does the Government plan to take to prevent the shortage of vaccines caused by serious breaches of international pharmaceuticals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u149	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, the early buying strategy I have just commented on in this House is an unprecedented milestone. Who was going to tell us a year ago, at the very beginning of the pandemic, that today, a year later, with the advancement of science, we were going to have vaccines, vaccines that are being incorporated into that pool of six contracts signed by the European Union. This is a contract of more than two billion doses, of which our country is responsible, as you well know, for 10%. Our first action has been to get in touch with the Stella Kyriakides police station to give our support in that demand to the companies to agree, sign and comply with what they have signed. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u151	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u152	Madam Minister, in this demand that you are talking about, we are surprised by the harshness and high demand that the European Commission usually maintains to order social cuts - pensions, working conditions - and, however, how flexible and tolerant it has been in the face of the blackmail of this pharmaceutical company. We, in the face of this blackmail and other situations that it may entail, propose some initiatives that could be carried out. For example, to release the patents of vaccines, making them a public good, so that not only is it guaranteed that current production can be obtained and increased, but also that the concentration of vaccines by the rich states will be eliminated, while ensuring that the impoverished countries can have efficient vaccines. Another initiative is the temporary nationalization of those European pharmaceuticals that speculate with vaccines and fail to fulfil their commitments, thus passing into the hands of public control. A European pharmaceutical industry for research and public production of essential medicines could also be set up from now on. I do not know whether some of these questions or other measures are being raised, Minister, but I ask you a very specific question that I would like you to answer. Yesterday we knew that the Russian vaccine has shown that it is more than 90% effective. That is why I ask you whether, with the aim of increasing the availability of vaccines, just as it is being proposed in countries such as Germany, in particular, the Government intends to acquire this vaccine or to propose to the European Commission the joint acquisition once it is approved by the EMA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u153	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u154	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I have to say that despite the difficulties, the vaccination strategy is working, it is moving forward. It is true that there is a difficulty: the limitation, which is going to be very timely in these months, because not only is the clinical development being done, with the presentation of the different phases of the trials, which will understand that it is complicated, but that it is also necessary the authorisation at European level of the EMA, and then the industrial production, in relation to which some companies are having difficulties. In any case, Your Honor, as I told you, this month we will receive 2.3 million doses between BioNTECH-Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, and we are awaiting AstraZeneca, which I assume we will soon know what these initial delivery doses are going to be. This Government will receive, openly and enthusiastically, any vaccine that has the authorisation of the European Medicines Agency, because the only requirement is the authorisation of the European Medicines Agency. But also, Your Honor, in this first quarter we will have 4 million doses of BioNTECH-Pfizer alone and we are waiting for them to be expanded, without prejudice to other clinical trials, such as Janssen's, which have proved in its third phase - let me say colloquial - to have a very good look. So, what do we expect, Your Honor? As of March, a significant increase in the number of doses of vaccines that puts us in another scenario, in order to fulfil the commitments that the European Union has made to us and that Spain wants to implement. First, 80 % of people over the age of 80 vaccinated in the first quarter, together with group 1 of health workers in residences and also social health personnel and, secondly, 70 % of the population vaccinated during the summer. Trust and, of course, demand... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u155	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u156	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on whether the Government is planning a turn in its territorial policy and, in particular, on the conflict with Catalonia. For your defence, Mr. Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. The first thing is the first. Welcome, Mr. Iceta. With all due respect, you have achieved something that a distinguished and veteran Catalan politician, Duran i Lleida, tried throughout his political career, and could not: be a minister. So, congratulations. You know better than I do that sometimes, on more and more occasions, the political and media distance between Madrid and Catalonia is enormous. Absolutely assumed and understood facts here are absolutely surprising there, in Catalonia, and backwards; and I have to tell you that you are one of those facts. I'll explain myself. When I arrived in Madrid five years ago I was surprised by many things, but basically three. The first, water quality. The truth is that the water is very good in Madrid. The second, the number of people reforested and covered with Spanish flags that called me a nationalist. And the third, that you here have a reputation as a sovereignist, even paraded independenceist. Amazing, very surprising. So I think that you are one of those facts that reflects the enormous distance that sometimes exists between Madrid and Catalonia. It's hard to understand, and it's something that sounds like when 15 years ago it was said that Aguirre was Maje and Gallardon was progressive. You, according to many factual powers and many media in Madrid, are either independent or sovereignistic. Different cities, different worlds, different realities. Her predecessor, Mrs Darias, was meant to have very little political waist for the main conflict and territorial problem that exists in this country, the political conflict that exists between the State and Catalonia. For example, Mrs. Darias when she was talking about Murcia looked like Podemos, but when she started talking about Catalonia she looked like UPyD. So let us hope that it does not happen to you and that, ultimately, it marks a profile and does not remain in the typical and grey Catalan quota of the successive Spanish governments of the last forty years. At the moment, you are skilful, parliamentaryly very skilful. Let us see, then, how Catalanist and even how sovereign you are and let us see how your appointment may or may not change the territorial policy of the Government - I repeat - towards the main political conflict that exists in the State. That is why I am asking you five questions, which I hope you will answer. First. A little less than two years ago, you said that you would never, ever go to prison to Oriol Junqueras. He literally said: I don't want anyone to believe that I support those who made serious political mistakes. The concept of political error is a very broad one, Mr Iceta. Do you really think putting ballot boxes for a people to vote is a political mistake? Because if this is the case, was it a political right to stop that people from voting? Do you really think beating people in an election school is a political right? Do you really believe that? Do you really believe, as Minister of Territorial Policy, that that day they misled those who allowed people to vote and hit those who sent the police to beat? It's hard to understand and even harder to explain, if you're a Democrat, of course, and you're a Democrat, a very Democrat. So we asked him to get wet. I'm gonna get wet. To me it seems a political mistake to support Susana Díaz when she wanted to kick - and gave - her secretary general of the time, Pedro Sánchez, in Ferraz, literally. You supported Susana Díaz. [[Denials.- Rumours]] Well, that was a political mistake for me. And today I see you sitting here in a chair of a ministry of a government of Pedro Sánchez. For me, a political error is, for example, the miserable speech of the king of 3 October, which endorses the Catalans and the Catalans on 1 October. I still see that gentleman, like the last forty years, living in a palace and with his father, by the way, fled to Emirates. That's a political mistake for me. Those are political mistakes and not a referendum. What do you think as Minister of Territorial Policy? Second question. You led for many years in Catalonia a party that had a glorious acronym - and I say it did -, the PSC. It is a party that, for example, was key, crucial, in something as beautiful as linguistic immersion, something they imagined, so they fought and they got workers arrived in Catalonia forty, fifty, sixty or seventy years ago, to neighborhoods like mine, El Fondo, in Santa Coloma de Gramenet. They wanted something as simple as their grandchildren and children wanting and knowing the culture of the earth that they were treading and learning their language. The question is clear, Mr. Iceta. How does it go from defending linguistic immersion to becoming selfish with Albiol in Catalan Civil Society demonstrations? How do you do it? How's it going? Do you believe, for example, that without the Republican Left the Lomlou would have shielded, as it does, the linguistic immersion? Do you think that without Republican Left the Lomlou would strengthen, as it does, the public school? Do you think that without Republican Left the Lomlou would stop gender segregation in the concerted school, as it does? Where do you leave that to the PSC? How do you leave it? I'm telling you, in a PSOE branch. It's no longer PSC, but now it's Catalonia's sanchoist party. The question is clear. Will you do the same with the ministry you represent? You're going to empty the contents and hand it over to Ferraz? Third question. In 2012 you said, literally - there is a video running through YouTube, very celebrated -: referendums on independence have to be made and, in fact, in advanced democracies can be made; in the case of Quebec they were made, and it is the case, probably also, of Scotland. And in 2014 you also said: the PSOE does not want a consultation in Catalonia. Let's see if we can find out. The PSC, me, yeah. What happened, Mr. Iceta? What happened? Who called him? How does it go from representing socialism and Catalanism in Catalonia to voting 155 against the culture, language and people of Catalonia? How do you move from Pascual Maragall to Soraya Sáez de Santamaría? Fourth question. You just over three years ago, together with the secretary general of VOX, Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, marched through Barcelona under the slogan 'Catalonia we are all', marches in which you could hear songs such as 'More to the gas chamber', 'Puigdemont to prison' and my favorite, 'Junqueras, son of a bitch, Spain is your nation'. Do you regret it, Mr. Iceta? Will this be your line of action as Minister of Territorial Policy? By the way, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina recently said in an interview that Mr. Illa was his candidate, and that VOX was going to support him, because he was the only one who could win against independence. I ask you: is everything against independence, even accepting the votes of the far right? Fifth and last question, what's your plan, what's the plan, Mr. Iceta? And don't tell me, please, what it is to take the Senate to Barcelona, because they just have to send spices to Catalonia as if we were Native Americans in the old world. I know that a lot of voters, a lot of activists, a lot of people at heart from the PSC, the PSOE, are hurt, it even boils their blood by seeing Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Cuixart, Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa, etc. in prison. I even know it's quite likely that you too, but it's that that doesn't make you better than Javier Ortega Smith-Molina, it doesn't make you better than García Albiol and of course it doesn't make you better than your partner Josep Borrell, because they don't shut up what they think, you do, you shut up what they think and what they say sometimes when they don't hear you. We hope someday he'll stop shutting up. We do hope that as Minister of Territorial Policy he will cease to be silent. For now, that's all. I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u159	Thank you, President. You will understand why, Mr Rufián, I will start my speech by apologizing to my cabinet and to my colleague Pepe Zaragoza, because they had told me: the first day, declaration of principles and orillar. And they were probably right. But I want to establish a relationship of sincerity with you and with the House as a whole. Sincerity will certainly not prevent us from encountering, but yes - I hope - misunderstandings. You say that in Madrid they consider me an independentist thread. I hope you'll help me deny it. Of course the water is magnificent and of course there are flags here, but no less than in Barcelona. In that competition you won't find me. Then he said one thing - I tell you from that sincerity -: let's see how Catalanist you are. Look, among some who distribute constitutionalist cards and others who distribute Catalanist cards, I am what I am, I come from where I come from, I have done what I have done and I defend what I defend. Of course, I have not visited the independence prisoners. Serious political error. Yeah, look, breaking the law is probably the worst political mistake you can make. I am not saying that behind that decision there cannot be values, cases that are considered legitimate, but allow me to defend here and always strict compliance with the law, respect for the separation of powers, compliance with judgments and judicial decisions. [[Applauds]] On 1 October, as I do not yet have much control over the times and I know that the president is inflexible - and she is doing well - I refer her to the statement I made as the first secretary of the PSC that day, in which I called, among other things, for the withdrawal of the forces of law and order. So, there we are. He says the PSC had some glorious acronyms, I think it's still got them, but he agreed that we can disagree on that. In fact, the PSC is the party to which the most political skeletons have been published. Many thought we weren't going to see new years, new glories, new victories, and we're here to try and deny it. You were talking about the immersion, the Lomlou and the prominent role of the Republican Left. Look, I want to thank you, but you will allow me to tell you that without the Socialist Party's votes it would not have been approved. [[Applauds]] I think I can say it without offending anyone. On demonstrations, look, I don't even let myself be told which demonstrations I'm going to and which ones I'm not going to. To a demonstration against the secessionist attempt - let me call it that - I go. It's true that sometimes people I have little to do with go to demonstrations, then we'll talk about it, but that doesn't stop me. He made a brilliant intervention in this regard, Mr Joan Coscubiela, in the Parliament of Catalonia, which I would like to recall here. About the internal stories of the PSOE, let me not say it, but I know the story better than you do. [[Laughter]] So, I was with whom I was with, I did what I did and I tried to do the best I could as the first secretary of the PSC, which is a complex job. Whether we are branches or not, we are internationalists. I liked the name of the French Socialist Party, which was the French Section of the Workers' International. Therefore, the accusations of branchism of our federal fraternal relationship, of sharing projects, illusions and dreams for this country with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party there will always find me, because among other things I am one of the few who can say that he was a member of the Catalan Federation of the PSOE many, many years ago. On referendums, look, I as a Democrat always say that in democracy dialogue, laws and law reform must allow problems to be solved, always. But it's true that the PSC in this has changed, and I don't find it hard to say it. The PSC in 2012 accepted the right to decide that this would be a solution. When we saw that the right to decide was only a strategy for independence, we were lucky with one person I want to remember today from this rostrum: Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, then secretary general of the PSOE, who actually called us and told us: what are the problems we want to address, what are the problems that a very significant part of Catalan society believes we should address? [[applause]] And we listed them, and Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba offered us, after a long and laborious negotiation not only with the PSC, but with all the socialist organizations of Spain, the Granada Declaration. And the PSC at that time renounced any excursion anywhere by a certain, difficult, complex way, which requires consensus that does not exist today, which is that of constitutional reform. You were talking to me about some demonstrations bearing the slogan 'Catalonia we are all'. But we agree on that, don't we? I say this because I have actually heard in some statements - I don't mean yours, in that you have been a sincere and sometimes courageous person and that has cost you some criticism even from your ranks - that Catalonia is all of us, but in Catalonia there are independenceists, yes, and there are also people who aren't. What we need to be able to do - and in that we should all be - is to find those rules of coexistence that allow us to live together with one another, in which feelings of identity do not divide us but can unite us in achieving shared goals, which have more to do with the fight against the pandemic, for economic revival, for social reconstruction and for the recovery of affection and respect for institutions. You tell me about VOX's support. What I've read is that VOX wants to put Salvador Illa in jail, that's what I've read. You are very - very wrongly - interested in giving VOX a leading role in this campaign. The fifth question was: what is the plan, to take the Senate to Barcelona? No, no, I wanted to go to the Senate. [[Laughter and applause]] But, since it puts me on that ground, I believe in the deconcentration of the institutions of the state and the Socialist Party believes it. However, we are well aware that a change of this dimension, of this magnitude, requires a great deal of consensus and a very broad commitment and, therefore, we are not going to precipitate decisions or impose decisions without sufficient support. You tell me I'm better. Look, I don't feel any better than anyone, I have many flaws - which I won't quote - but there is one that I don't have, which is that of supremacism. In the rest I am like everyone else, with my virtues, with my flaws, with my shortcomings, with my luggage. I am lucky enough to play my role as Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service - by the way, it is for all of Spain, for all Spaniards, for all the autonomous communities and for the two autonomous cities - to have a guide, or if they rush me, to have three: one, the Socialist electoral programme - I would not be able to live without it - two, the programme of the progressive coalition government, and three, the agenda for the reunion that President Sánchez took to Barcelona to a meeting with the Government of Catalonia. I bring it on paper and on an original paper that the president was right to leave me and that I do not let go. There is our plan, there is our offer, there is a possibility, but let me tell you - I told Mrs Borràs earlier earlier - that for dialogue to be fruitful it is necessary for both parties to really want it, and to demonstrate it with deeds and deeds. I will tell you that your party, with glorious acronyms, with its lights and shadows, like all, but glorious, has elected the last three presidents of the Generalitat: Arthur Mas, Carles Puigdemont and Quim Torra. When the Socialist Party and the coalition government with the comrades of the United Nations We can try to open the dialogue with the last one we have had, we meet with a president who set as a strategy the confrontation, who even criticized his party for all those agreements - and even negotiations without agreement - that you undertake. I used to remind Mrs Borràs when she told us that autonomy was the main obstacle to independence. How can we negotiate an improvement of autonomy with whom you believe that the improvement of autonomy is contrary to your political objective? Your Honor, I once made a joke - I am told not to do them, but I am unable at my age - that if I had to choose a motto for my shield I would put 'Nasio pa pacta', as Sergeant Arensivia said, that is, 'Born to pact'. [[Applauds]] I don't refuse conflict when there is. I have to tell you that the saddest day of my political life was the day we were forced to leave the Chamber of Parliament in Catalonia because there was a vote that would break not only with the Constitution, but with the status of autonomy. It's the furthest thing I like. I like parliaments, I like agreements, I like negotiations and I will try to follow that path to solve the problems we have in Catalonia, but also to solve the problems of the whole of Spanish society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u161	Thank you very much, President. I have taken some notes of what you have said, Mr Iceta, because I think parliamentaryism is about this. I'm very surprised when I see a deputy with the script made in a replica, it's like a screenwriter, an actor and an actress. And I thank you because I believe that you have done the same as I did in the reply to my speech. That's why I was telling you at the beginning that you're skilful in Parliament, in fact, I'm telling you with respect. I went to school and you were already in the atrium of an institution, so it's a pleasure to discuss it with you. It is still governed by the principle of legality and someone so unsuspecting of being a dangerous secessionist or a socialcommunist like Mr Aitor Esteban, yesterday repeated it again: it is a mistake. And it is a mistake because in democracy, the law has to adapt to democracy. He's very handy, but I'll tell him again. Under that conception would he react tremendously to someone who qualifies himself as a socialist, what would have happened to the eight-hour workday? What happened to the abortion? What would have happened to gay marriage? Please, we ask you to stop using that reactionary argument that only uses the right. You also mention the demonstration against the secessionist attempt - again use that language, a mental frame of the right -. I tell you clearly something that my admired and dear leader, one of the best leaders who has given Republican Left in the Catalan policy of recent times, Joan Tardà - I hope you will also make it clear -: Just as you cannot proclaim a republic against 50% of the population against, you cannot impose an autonomy against 50% of the population. [[Applauds]] You can't, you can't. Don't hang that from throwing the Constitution and legality at your head, we have to do our job. He has spoken of his support or his lack of support for Susana Díaz. Don't make me talk, because I think everyone knows what they did those days. He refers to what you were defending in the 2012 referendum and tells me something like that Mr Rubalcaba - in peace, an extraordinary politician - warned them that with a referendum of self-determination we wanted the self-determination of Catalonia. He's got us. [[Laughter]] Imagine that you also wanted to defend - I hope - federalism in Spain and say: No, we do not vote, because you want to be federalist and want federalism. Man, I respect your ideas. I wish the PSOE were - I repeat - federalist. He comes to say that because of us you are not presiding over the Senate. Well, you'll thank me because you've done a little better, won't you? You're a minister and I think that's what you wanted. I'm done with this. He talks about a part of independence, he talks about this space of dialogue and negotiation that we create together with the PSOE in the service of both governments, the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain, about that space that represents a consensus of the entire Catalan population between 70 and 80% - the vote to which I vote - who knows that this is not solved by sticks or by judges, but by recognizing us and talking to us. They come to blame a part of independence, to the Catalan independence right, and they tell us to talk to them, because they don't want it. You may be right, but you have them in DIBA, in the Barcelona Diputation. You rule with them against us, so they're not that bad anyway. Please do your job. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be brief, but I'll answer what you said. Let me first make a criticism - I think it is constructive - of all your interventions: they are more focused on the past than on the present and the future. I believe that we are called - you, we, all - to build a future capable of overcoming the problems we have experienced and some that you have described with cruelty, but also with truth. As I was saying, I take time, yes, to my friends I tell them that I have a certain vocation of eternity, or at least of permanence, but of course a vocation of public service for a long, long time. Then I allow myself to disagree with you, do not confuse legality with immobilism, it is not so. Laws can and must be changed. I told him that we would love to undertake a constitutional reform. However, laws can be changed through the procedures and majorities established by the laws themselves. It is not the people, it is the Chambers, the representatives elected by the citizens, who, through the established procedures, agree on the need to improve, review and reform a law. And if so, they do. I have said it many times and I say it here again: I believe that the vitality of the Spanish Constitution would be strengthened if it were reformed; I believe it. But what I'm not going to do, because I don't have to, is impose a reform, and of course without majorities who can do it. The history of Spain must be known, it must be lived. Fortunately, the times when one came, imposed his constitution, and when the other came, changed it to impose his. We must recognize that even with its shortcomings - which do not hurt me to recognize - the Spanish Constitution has marked the period of prosperity, peace, coexistence and progress of the peoples of Spain greater in the last two or three centuries. He does not like to use the secessionist word, but when there is a part of the territory that separates or intends to separate from the State of which he is a party, it is called succession. I see no intention in the word secessionism, if I had told him separatist I would have understood his kind counterclaim, but I have said secessionist because it is the technical name. It is true that we sometimes get a little insistent on legality, but we have to. Out of legality we have Trump, we have the idea that it can be imposed, because people want it, whatever it is. It is true, then, that sometimes legality implies procedures and consensus. I always say that democracy is slow, some say that that is why the non-democratic systems are superior. There is that discussion about the power, for example, of China, but I am - and I thank you for it - a Democrat, I believe that democracy implies conviction. It is true that 50% versus 50% democracies do not serve. You told me that we discovered them, that when they said right to decide, they meant self-determination. If they'd started there, surely we wouldn't have been wrong. But in the end - and I finish - I never rule against anyone. My party does not rule against anyone, not in a city hall, not in a parliament, not in an autonomous community, not when it rules the state. We govern in favour of what we understand to be the general interest. Of course, we may be wrong, but what happens is that, for good or for bad, the longing time of the absolute majority will not return and we must practice all - perhaps much more than we would like and much more than we know - dialogue and consultation with other groups. What I want to offer you - as the President of the Government did - is the will of this Government and of the parliamentary groups that give you their support to continue to try, through dialogue, to solve the most problems best. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Government can explain the steps it is taking to resolve THE FINANCING PROBLEM - CURRENT AND FUTURE - OF THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITIES. [[File number 172/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u165	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to explain the steps it is taking to solve the current and future financing problem of the autonomous communities. Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u166	Good morning, President. Madam Minister, good morning and thank you for your attendance. First of all, and in order not to be repeated by the deputies of VOX, I express my most absolute condemnation of any physical or verbal aggression against any political group and any person who is running for election. Of course, and very much. [[Applauds]] That said, the truth is that today I have begun to attend curious conversion and transfiguration processes. It is true that trying to answer questions in Parliament is beginning to be a chimera, Minister. We have asked several questions and there has been no answer. The classic question-answer dialectic, which should govern any kind of rhetorical and dialectical movement in parliamentary office, we have not succeeded, but, as you have surely already known what the morning debate was, perhaps you can answer me. What happened to the Council of State's opinion? I have been politically responsible and I assure you that I had scrupulous respect for the technical and legal opinion of the Council of State every time we proposed a rule. I would like to know whether, between Mr. Iceta's path to the Senate, from the Senate to Mr. Iceta, from camel to mountain, from mountain to camel, perhaps the opinion of the Council of State has fallen. We would like someone to give us some information to find out where the Council of State's opinion is. On the other hand, if you want in the reply I will tell you what are the main irregularities of that decree-law. Secondly, this is, really, like The Court of Miracles. Every time I come here I witness amazing ideological transformations and transmutations. Today we no longer know whether Spain is plurinational, whether there are six nations, whether this is a rugby tournament, or really what model we are facing. In addition, Mr. Rufián's sudden closure of federalism and independence, and his reliance on the government's tax harmonization bank, is surprising. That those of the United Nations We can - who have become the monarchy too - suddenly have thought that we must also go to a model of fiscal centralization no wonder, of course, if fiscal centralization unequivocally implies the increase of fiscal pressure and that thirteen new taxes are created. By the way, these are the thirteen taxes that exist in Catalonia, which do not exist in other autonomous communities, and which are permanently penalizing the investment and residence of both natural and legal persons. But, above all, Minister, I'd like to tell you something. Since we were aware yesterday that you will once again support the formation of that bilateral table with the Government of Catalonia, an extra-parliamentary - and extra-legal form also because it is political, it is meta-political, you will see what you are doing - of trying to solve what is a problem for you in Catalonia, a political conflict in your opinion, will Catalonia join the model of autonomous financing on the basis of a multilateral negotiation? Are you going to negotiate bilaterally with Catalonia a specific funding model? We know that the Generalitat has refused to go to multilateral forums - you know perfectly well - on the last fiscal and financial policy councils, but does that mean that it is a permanent resignation? Does that mean that the government of Sanchez and you as spokesman and finance minister are going to accept that resignation? Should we break multilateralism? Do we accept a pseudoreality from now on? Exactly, where do we want to go, what do we want to answer? [[The Lord]] The ultimate goal - I insist - of Republicans, now converted to fiscal harmonization, is independence. Let us speak clearly, Republicans of Republican Left; let us speak clearly, gentlemen of Bildu; let us speak clearly, gentlemen of the UPC. Is an independent Catalonia really viable? Can you tell them? Can you end that morbid dream of independence, knowing perfectly well that it is impossible to sustain an independent State? Who's gonna pay the pensions? Why has the Basque Nationalist Party, permanently anchored in nationalist professionalism, not wanted to break the single Social Security box? Because someone has to pay the pensions of the Basques; we all pay them, because their demographic peak does not, of course, support the situation right now for the payment of pensions. And the same thing happens in Catalonia. Why don't we all start explaining rationally - everyone, also the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party - that it is impossible to do so at those tables? Every time I see a television debate, it really looks like Berlanga's national shotgun: independents who demand fiscal harmonization, socialists who demand out-of-law tables, those of VOX who don't know exactly what they're doing there, still claiming their own position. It's like we're in the national shotgun. Why don't we put a little order? Mr. Iceta said he was born to bargain, I really think we're going to have a lot of fun with what was born to bargain. There is already a pact, gentlemen, the constituent pact, that they want to turn it into a'removal' pact. And that's where I want to go in, Minister. The State model emanates from the Moncloa Covenants and the Constitution of 78 and is an autonomous model. You will see how we will have the opportunity to listen to Mr.Iceta proliferating all kinds of adjectives: compound, complex, etc. We have realized that here in seventeen minutes you have said absolutely nothing. What a wonder, tow here directly and say absolutely nothing. If we agree that Spain is an autonomous state, fiscal autonomy, financial autonomy is a basic, inspiring principle, constituting the autonomous state. I would like to remind you, Minister, of the statements you made last year: 'Tax autonomy is something - exactly what you said - that must be pursued'. Well, today I'm starting to worry if fiscal autonomy is something to be pursued. We'll have a different concept of fiscal autonomy, but we don't have to pursue it. What is fiscal autonomy? What is fiscal autonomy, Minister? I don't know whether to ask the tax advisor of Andalusia or ask the tax minister right now. I've seen that you have two completely different versions, and it's good to be consistent because time gives us and takes away reasons for all of us. I too have been a tax advisor, as you know, minister, and of course my speech has been the same permanently. The question is this, let's see, if there is fiscal autonomy, that means that the autonomous communities can modulate their tax capacity, in the same way that they have the capacity to determine their volume of expenditure, what their volume of relative indebtedness, whenever it is approved by the Ministry of Finance, and what their spending policies are. Minister, if there is fiscal dumping, is there budgetary dumping? Is there budgetary dumping or is it just fiscal and are those of Madrid, as we will see below? We proposed a new funding model at the time and it is true that as a result of the previous crisis we were not able to carry out the work in a relevant way, because we felt that something different had to be done, which was to inject liquidity into the autonomous communities. Do you know how much liquidity we inject through the FLA, the Supplier Payment Fund - you do, Minister - and through the ICO? A total of 268 billion euros. Do you know which autonomous community received the most money from the liquidity funds? Catalonia, which received €77 billion. Do you know how much, for example, the Community of Madrid received? Only EUR 7 billion. Catalonia received €77 billion, while Madrid received only €7 billion. Ah, but here we had to keep composing that famous sprainy and falsifying narrative of 'Spain steals us'. The 'Spain steals from us' came so well. Spain didn't steal. Now, as he cannot steal Spain because he governs the PSOE and they are his allies, he steals Madrid and we reopen the chain of territorial clashes. Since they have opened the chain of confrontation with the past, now what we do is confront the territories in a permanent dialectic chain to confront the Madrid that does not surrender, the Madrid of freedoms. [[Applauds]] Having said that, Minister, the new funding model was already proposed in a motion that was approved by all political parties, except the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, in 2018. By the way, two months earlier you claimed in a press release, when you were a Finance Advisor to the Board of Andalusia, a new model of financing based on equality, equity, transparency, fiscal co-responsibility, and I would obviously add, in solidarity, of course. Do you agree to start those jobs again that were very developed already? Don't you think it is important to start them at a time when the deliveries made during these two years are going to represent, as the AIReF has said, that the autonomous communities will have to return in 2022 or 2023, as a result of budgetary misadjustment and tax revenues, EUR 5 billion each year? How will the autonomous communities return EUR 5 billion each year in a state of absolute economic collapse and loss of tax revenues? Don't you think it's time to start this job? I would like to conclude this first part on the subject of tax dumping. I say this because it is not present in the funding model, we start from absolutely objective criteria. There is no fiscal dumping, and let us be clear. Firstly, there is no such thing as a political concept. I ask you for political coherence, you are a constituent party, you are a political party of state. Political and financial administrative autonomy is the consubstantial basis of this State and each autonomous community has the capacity to modulate its taxes and those who respond to a liberal policy will lower taxes, and those who respond to an interventionist or invasive policy will increase taxes and respond to their communities of voters, what they have called, Mr.Iceta, national community. I see that Mr.Iceta between so many verbs still does not know how to distinguish between what is nation and nationality, but since he is not here, I will not insist. I will insist when I am at some point to explain to me whether you know the difference between nation and nationality. That said, we're going to give you data you know. From the general taxes of the system - VAT, IRPF and excise - are collected in Madrid 84 billion euros. Do you know how much the Community of Madrid is left? Only EUR 19 billion, 22%. Of the taxes transferred, 25% - I am finishing - goes to other autonomous communities, in Catalonia only 10%. However, from the funds of the tax system transferred, do you know how much from the Community of Madrid is going to attach the solidarity fund to serve the general health, social services and education services of the Autonomous Communities, which are not the Community of Madrid? 68 %. 68% of taxes transferred to Madrid do not go to Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u167	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u168	The corporal. Thank you very much, Mr President. Therefore, I ask you, please, in this regard, to start the work and to do so with loyalty. We will be loyal, minister, applying the principles, but let us not resell with spurious, completely unjust speeches the well done work of some autonomous communities that only fight for freedom and equality in our country. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u169	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Garcés, you go up to this rostrum and, as is often the case with other members of your party when they go up, I wonder from the seat who you represent, to the PP in Madrid? You rise to the rostrum to defend the management of the Madrid PP, it seems that we are in the Madrid Assembly, while the PP here is alien to the problems that exist in other communities, even those that you govern. You don't talk about Andalusia, you don't talk about Galicia, you don't talk about Castile and León, you don't talk about Murcia, you only talk about the Community of Madrid. Has this PP been transmuted to the PP of Madrid or is it that they have a leadership problem within your party, Your Honor? [[Applauds]] For the speeches that take place in this forum, it seems that we have moved from the Chamber, but we can see - and that is done invariably every time one of your spokespersons goes up to the gallery - that, of course, what they have lost is the sense of country, Mr Garcés. Can you explain to me how a political party that has had responsibilities of government during democracy, the People's Party, in the face of the most important, most dramatic event that Spanish society has suffered, such as a health pandemic that knows no precedents, with an associated economic crisis that has caused our GDP to fall in 2020 by 11%, in the face of that situation, continues to vote against budgets, voting against European funds reaching the whole of the productive fabric and society, facing territories, making conflict with everything that happens because they have subscribed to 'the fall of Spain that we will already raise it', Mr Garcés? This is the reply that we always have to make from this rostrum because you prove that you have no sense of state. And that is very serious in a party, the main opposition party, which seeks, or that I thought, Your Honor, to be an alternative or an option of government in the future. Look, what we are not going to do in Catalonia, Mr Garcés - I say this because today it seems that this Chamber is going through the Catalan elections - is what you did. What we are not going to do in Catalonia is to create a situation and not to commit a conflict, hiding our heads like an ostrich, which has made Catalan society polarized, which will make it difficult to live together and ultimately intensify the conflicts that we are experiencing in such an important part of Spanish territory. What we are not going to do, ladies and gentlemen, is look elsewhere while a referendum was being convened, acting later, as we saw. What we are not going to do in any case, Your Honor, is to do what you did, which is to let things pass, as Mr Rajoy's premise was, trying to make time solve everything, without any capacity for political intervention that would allow us to put an end to the conflict that was looming and above all preventing, hindering, not giving facilities to a necessary political dialogue that has to be produced in a part of the Spanish territory that brings prosperity, brings coexistence, which brings values to society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, every time you talk about autonomous financing - which is the reason for the inquiry - you do so for the sole purpose of confronting the territories, and today we have seen it here, Mr Garcés. If not, why does the Madrid Community come to the fore in the debate on autonomous financing as if everything revolves around the capital of the kingdom? Mr Garcés, Madrid has its specificity, complexity and response, but the rest of Spain exists, Mr Garcés. Mrs Ayuso said: Spain is Madrid and Madrid is Spain. Spain is much more than Madrid. Spain has the vocation, Your Honor, to converge territorially, to increase its economic growth, to increase the well-being of all citizens. Your Honor, of the notes I have been able to take from your intervention, it is simply clear to me that your political party is leading to drifting away from each solution by trying to make a conflict, without applying and without contributing any useful to political life, and now in a competition with its VOX partners in some autonomous communities, where they give you lessons regarding the inescapable responsibility that we all have as a country, and you remain the same because you are involved in the dispute over the vote of the ultra-right in Catalonia. That is the reality of all the speeches we have heard this morning and during the last few days. You asked, Mr. Garcés, what fiscal autonomy is. I do not believe that anyone in the context of autonomous financing, who has responsibilities in economic matters or in the field of public finances, has any doubts as to what fiscal autonomy is. Mr. Garcés, you have said several times that fiscal autonomy has to be used to modulate. He has used several times that verb, modular, which I share. Do you think modular is to take a tax practically to its elimination? Do you think so? [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes affirmative gestures]] Then we have a different perception of what modular is. Modular cannot be eliminated, they are two different verbs. What you want is to eliminate the fiscal capacity that a territory has is understood that because you have sufficient resources to finance public services. Or it could also be understood, Your Honor, that it does not care about the intensity of the use of public services and therefore withdraws economic contribution to health, education or dependence. One of two, because of course, Your Honor, you can't blow and sip at the same time. That is what you were asking for in Europe, what we are asking for in Spain and what the People's Party has always asked for in Spain, because you have changed your position, Mr Garcés, and you have done so because you are afraid of the People's Party in Madrid. They haven't changed it for a conceptual theme. Or do you not think that we also have to fight for autonomous communities, such as Andalusia, that in order to collect the same amount that is collected, for example, in a community such as Madrid they are forced to raise tax rates or increase the tax burden of citizens? Mr. Garcés, if you listen to me, I think we can agree on this. It is not fair fiscally that there are autonomous communities that are forced to raise tax rates three times because their per capita income level is lower than other autonomous communities that, using tax dumping, are making it possible to transfer businesses or capital from one region to another. And I'm not talking about the regions governed by the Socialist Party, Mr. Garcés, I'm talking about Andalusia, Castile and León, Galicia, Murcia; I'm talking about the part of Spain that goes beyond what is the capital of Spain. Since Mr. Sánchez arrived in Moncloa after winning the motion of censure, you have been demanding from day one what you have not done since 2013. They had five or six years, Mr. Garcés, to reform a model of autonomous financing that had expired. And you say that the economic crisis at the time did not recommend a reform of the model. And the current one does advise you? Yes, the current one is, Mr. Garcés. Of course, because the People's Party uses a different funnel. When it comes to good use the wide part, when it comes to applying it to another use the narrow part. With that argument, which I do not share, we would also be condemned, in the coming years, not to push forward the revision, the reform of the autonomous financing model. But it's not true, Mr. Garcés, why what happened in Spain in 2015, 2016 and 2017? Didn't the GDP go up, Mr. Garcés? So why didn't you think about reforming the funding model at the time? For simply because you did not have leadership in the country to promote a debate that must be an honest debate that we all look forward to constructively and knowing that never a financing model can be perfect for each specific territory, it must be sufficiently inclusive to allow for the elimination of territorial divergences, but above all that the aim of the model is to ensure the provision of public services. In that, Mr. Garcés, that's what we have to work on. Your Honor, if we start by making the policy of this debate a confrontation between Spain and Catalonia, between Spain and Madrid or between Madrid and Andalusia, we will never be able to move forward and the autonomous communities will continue to be condemned to have a financing system that has been unfair to some territories and that has been able to benefit - or at least not harm so much - other territories. The truth, Mr Garcés, is that it was not the economic crisis that discouraged the People's Party from reforming. You did not do the reform because you took advantage of the financial crisis to produce a cut in public services. You took advantage of the financial crisis to burden the autonomous communities, in a model of territorial decentralization that the People's Party never accepted, which always played against the model of territorial decentralization, the tremendous fiscal adjustment that had to be made during those years, and you charged it precisely in those communities and in those providing administrations no more than health, education or dependence. I conclude this first intervention, Your Honor, by telling you that my Government's road map has been clearly different. This government, in the face of the financial crisis, does not lend to the autonomous communities, which also, because the FLA remains in force. You can't confuse between loans and transfers because you would be cheating on the whole citizenry. It is the first time in history that the autonomous communities have the support of the Government of Spain for 16 billion so that they can fight the crisis and that it goes without effect on essential public services. This is what this Government is doing, and it is what it will continue to do, driving the necessary autonomous funding, trying to bring the territories together and not confronting them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. Every time you talk about dialogue, I get nervous, and even more so when you say dialogue within the law. Dialogue within the law to pervert the law! It's the usual thing about you. That is the dialogue proper to bilateralism, and you know it, then you come here to say whatever you want. By the way, Minister, it's okay. He has said several times here, in this rostrum, and will be able to repeat it all he wants, the word adjustment. The word adjustment is on the website of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in a May 2010 note, which is when they approved the largest adjustment plan in the history of democracy in this country. That's what there is, which they constantly forget. [[Applauds]] By the way, whoever proposed the reform of article 135 of the Constitution is called the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, and that's it. [[Applauds]] It's worth so much teasing. You can't come up here to make a painting budget speech; here we are for something else completely different. Modular - and I'm not going to go into brown grammar issues with you -, I can assure you that for liberals it is abolishing taxes and bringing them to type zero. But I'm going to tell you something else, so much so that you like the big fortune tax, the estate tax. How many European countries have property taxes, even those governed by socialists? I'm telling you, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. There are no more countries. You know why? Because in most countries it has even been declared unconstitutional. Do you know what the average collection capacity is? 0.012 per cent. If you make this a war... By the way, the inter-territory war is yours, you encourage the inter-territory war. It is also a diluent permanent mechanism of opinion on its part and on the part of its President. You face the territories; you face them systematically through a permanent talk that has nothing to do with the natural state of this country. We do not know if we are a nation, if we are seven nations, if this is plurinational, if today we are a region, if today we have fiscal autonomy, if we must pursue fiscal autonomy, which you have said. Anyway, you quickly end up with autonomy. Of course, when you presented your new regulation for the management of the funds, in which 50% of the votes were directly held by the Ministry of Finance and you also had a high-quality vote... Nor in the Franchise autarchy, Minister. I don't know, you learn quickly; I'm not surprised, seeing the things I've been seeing lately. How many natural persons change homes for inheritance and donation tax? Will you have any studies at the Ministry of Finance, or are you no longer studying? Do we read Fedea's studies? Practically no one. Do you know why resources are displaced in Catalonia? By the process. The national wealth in Catalonia fell by 45% by the process, because fifteen years ago in Catalonia there was wealth, it was the locomotive of this country. By the way, of course I'm going to talk to you about other autonomous communities, for example Andalusia. Fuck if we start talking about Andalusia, minister, we don't stop! Yes, Minister, your intellectual ambivalence; what you were saying when you were a counselor and what you are saying now; what you were doing with the hospitals and what we are doing with the military hospitals, which you were also doing when you were a health counselor. [[Applauds]] But, of course, in a year of government, the public deficit ended, which, by the way, had to be corrected as a result of the very adjustment made by the General State Intervention, which is dependent on you, Minister, as a result of the unaccounted operations of your management. Look at what's going on! But you don't care about everything, I know. This is the painting estate; here is anything. Tax autonomy means anything; get up here, say anything and turn technicians into what they are no longer. But, look - and ended the regulation, the famous royal decree-law last week - we are waiting waiting for the Council of State. You guys have done amazing things. Article 1 of the Decree-Law uses a real decree-law-and sure will be said by the Council of State - to structurally modify the entire legal regime of Community aid from now on to infinity, that is not just the Recovery Fund. That is absolutely unconstitutional because it cannot be done through a decree-law. And, Madam Vice President, the famous Losers. I mean, you can present part and the criteria for assessing the Losses are going to put you later with VOX? Because here, in the decree-law, it is only said: that the losers are presented, that we will already accept them, but the criteria appear unweighted. We'll consider the criteria when they're all presented! What is this? Is that Cuba? This I have not seen in my life, and some knowledge of public law I have, minister. This is intolerable. Hey, what about mixed-economy societies? I'm shocked to hear the CUP. What are the mixed-economy societies of the royal decree-law, which has voted for it also VOX? What model do we go back to? The last thing I said to you, Minister, was that I held your hand...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u173	Mr. Garcés, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u174	The last sentence. ... to negotiate that model and that wars between territories only open them you have opened it, you have opened it, it has opened it the worst president of the history of this country, because in your foolishness and in your miserable behavior the only thing you can do is face territories. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u175	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Garcés, what problem do you have with the dialogue? You have said that every time we talk about dialogue - I imagine it is in this House - they get their hair pointed. The essence of democracy is dialogue. The People's Party must not abandon the path of dialogue. That's the problem you have. You have decided not to dialogue; not to dialogue for the good of Spain, not to dialogue to combat the virus, not to dialogue to resurrect the economic situation, not to dialogue to be able to face the territorial conflicts that this country has; not to dialogue, because you have settled in the strategy of harassment and destruction. I have told you many times, Mr Garcés, we will not move forward until you recognize the electoral results that the people have twice spoken, until you admit that you are in the opposition because the people have put you there. And they are in the opposition not for a strategy of delegitimization, of harassment and overthrow, they are in the opposition so that from their legitimate convictions they bring to this government and to this parliamentary arc constructive solutions that allow for progress. Stop throwing floor pallets and tie your shoulder, because right now, Your Honor, this country needs it. But I'll tell you more, we're able to keep moving without the People's Party. We are demonstrating that the People's Party has decided to isolate itself, to escape, to fight the far right. Today all you have said here is to scratch vows in Catalonia, which you believe - and you are concerned - that the ultra-right can take them down, and you continue in that conflict trying to make the speech of sophlamas, incendiary, hoist vows, instead of seeking harmony, coexistence and the peaceful solution of the problems that our society has raised at this time. You play polarization; you play polarization because you're in VOX's electoral environment; you don't play polarization because it was the natural framework of your political formation. And you are able to go up to this rostrum saying that while I was ruling the People's Party you gave more loans - which is what you gave through the FLA: loans, no transfers -, and you come up here taking out the chest that you gave Catalonia the largest volume of loans because you are in the campaign. Mr Garcés, if it had ever happened, when this government allocated money, that the most important part of the resources would have taken it from Catalonia, you would have accused us from this rostrum of agreeing with independence and of grabbing power above the interests of Spain. But no, that's not when you do it; you measure - I know - the political activity and the action depending on how it goes to you and depending on the position you maintain: when you're in the government everything is understandable and when you're in the opposition the only interest, according to you, of this government is to agree with the independenceists, the terrorists or I don't know very well what you call all those with whom you then vote, because you vote with Bildu, you vote with VOX, you vote with Esquerra, you vote with Junts per Cat, but, yes, when the Socialist Party does it: oh, betrayal of the whole of Spain! If for you to modulate taxation is to eliminate it, you have mistaken the verb, and also I am surprised at you, because you know perfectly well that the term modular technically in fiscal policy in no case can imply elimination. So who do we cheat on, Mr. Garcés? If you are making it possible or saying that you prefer as a party to defend the fiscal position of Madrid because it turns out that for you, for internal reasons of your own political formation, it is more convenient to approach the People's Party of Madrid, explain it to the citizens. What you cannot do is do this and in turn force Andalusia, for example, to choose between a lower provision of public services or'to raise the tax rates in order to prevent a capital flight from one autonomous community to another, the same as we ask in Europe. Or would it seem to you that other European countries have zero taxation, Mr Garcés, and that we are in that sort of tax dumping? I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. When I arrived at the Ministry of Finance I did not find any political documents regarding autonomous financing; none. They had five years to, at least, present politically the model schemes, ladies and gentlemen. There were only meetings of the technical groups, never a political position, because there was a lack of leadership on the part of Mr Rajoy and the People's Party. We are going to boost autonomous financing, we are going to ensure that the autonomous communities have and can provide quality public services. We have already demonstrated our commitment to the territorial model. The economic crisis in terms of collection has not affected the autonomous communities, ladies and gentlemen, because we have given them the deliveries on account as if there had been no crisis and because we have added EUR 16 billion, something unthinkable for a People's Party government. Term, Your Honor, with the sentence you've finished with. Are you going to call the behavior of the president of the government miserable? How then would this bench have to qualify Mr. Married's behavior? I imagine, sir, that there are no qualifications, and even if there were, I have enough respect for this House so as not to verbalise today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u177	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group on the development of the CORONAVIRUS COVID-19 vaccination camp to try to immunize the Spanish population in the shortest possible time and to [[MR. MARTINEZ OBLANCA]] THE SECOND TRAGICS OF THE ACCOUNT. [[File number 172/000072]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u178	Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, on the development of the campaign to immunize the Spanish population in the shortest possible time and to curb the tragic consequences of the infection. For your defence, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister of Health. With the excited memory of the dead and their families, I wish you the greatest success in your new responsibility and uniquely in the perpetual battle against the pandemic that has kept the world and Spain in check for a year, with appalling lethality, high rates of contagion, very high hospital occupancy and pressured ICUs. And let me quote the saying that reminds us that on the same path you reach the same destination. If you continue along the path already set in the ministry, as you assured in your inauguration, you will drag the Spaniards to repeat the disagreements and mistakes that marked the management of Mr. Illa. The unfortunate wish that 'you will enjoy' with which your predecessor handed you the relief in the Health portfolio is the epilogue that portrays a disastrous stage. We are in a third wave that returns us to the worst moments of the pandemic and deepens in ruin. In this very hard fight against the COVID-19 that humanity is facing, it is especially important to immunize the population as quickly as possible against the coronavirus and its dangerous variants or strains. Speed is key to preventing the disease, stopping the contagion and passing these tragic, dark and serious pages of history as soon as possible. You stated to the Health Committee last Friday that the vaccination strategy is progressing at an optimal pace. A year ago, on the same dates, his Government strongly denied the possibility that Spain would be affected by the pandemic already declared by the WHO. Five months later, in June, after more than 40,000 deaths, hundreds of thousands of infected, ninety-eight days of house confinement and a major paralysis of economic activity, we heard from the very President of the Government a statement that today resounds painfully sarcastic: We have defeated the virus. And look at what a desolating panorama we have at the beginning of 2021, after Mr Sánchez proclaimed himself such a robust epidemiological victory. Madam Minister, this inquiry seeks answers so that unknown uncertainties, incidences and doubts are being raised regarding vaccination. In this regard, it is essential to praise the speed with which science has managed to find remedies against the virus, something unthinkable when the scourge of this infection began. It is therefore fair to congratulate and thank all those in Spain and the world who have worked, three shifts, without fainting, to investigate and develop effective vaccines, whose complexity requires enormous investments, as well as efforts, studies and clinical trials that normally last many years. In parallel with scientific progress, the European Union's centralised international approach to cooperation was successful in ensuring procurement and ensuring supply to the 27 Member States, after providing support and significant financial commitment to vaccine development. However, what has happened in recent days, with unjustifiable delays in supply and non-delivery of production from several pharmaceutical laboratories, has generated a growing concern which has also been added to the doubts in the drafting of the contracts signed by the European Commission, which have been revealed with opacity because they are plagued with endless stains that conceal multiple details, arouse suspicions of commercial greed and sow doubts about the negotiation carried out. Throughout Europe, the initial vaccination targets are burdened by delays in delivery, unless new vaccines continue to be placed on the market or deficiencies that complicate immunization forecasts are overcome as soon as possible. There are also the bitter disputes with the Anglo-Swedish manufacturer of AstraZeneca vaccines, which were reflected in the indignation of the health station recalling the obligations, moral, social and contractual, as well as in the intervention of the president herself, Mrs Von der Leyen. These incidents have hampered the administration of doses, which has complicated the vaccination strategy, which, let us recall, has as its temporary objective - at a first stage which should end in March - the immunization of highly defined priority groups: residents and staff in centres of older people, health and social health personnel, and large non-institutionalised dependents. In this connection he asked: Can you, Minister, inform the House of the consequences for the Spanish strategy of vaccination of supply barriers, of the slowing down of production and of the setbacks in the distribution of pharmaceuticals? Will there be a need to extend the deadlines and, therefore, will the vaccination schedule have to be slowed down? Does your Government not intend to reconsider the strategy and implement a real national plan in line with the needs of the whole of Spain, rather than deposit the implementation of the vaccination campaign in seventeen governments, one for each autonomous community? Can we tell the citizens, each and every one of us, on what approximate dates we will have access to vaccination? In contrast to one of the reports by President Sánchez, in which he announced that the vaccination plan would be completed during the first half of 2021, you in these first days as a minister have extended the forecasts to reach the vaccination of 70% of the population by the end of summer, that is, eleven weeks after that first semester augurated by Mr Sánchez. I do not see, Mrs Darias, that such a delay responds to an optimal pace, so I ask you to be serious with the dates and you demanded the rigour that your predecessor lacked, not rarely. False expectations are a rattle in the spirit of society and also a severe blow to sectors, economic and labour activities that need certainty to map out their recovery plans. The vaccination schedule cannot repeat the spectacle of a government that has made during this long health emergency deferred announcements and contradictory recommendations, for example, on the use of masks, which have gone from being absolutely unnecessary to being an essential element, not to mention the frivolities, lightness or collection of erratic vats of Dr. Simon, director of the Center for the Coordination of Alerts and Sanitary Emergencies. Citizens and society as a whole need clear messages and not erratic prophecies. To the external supply complications must be added those derived from a competitive guirigay that demands the need for the ministry to take letters in the matter. Dr. Rafael Matesanz, a health authority of accredited and recognized credit, reflected it with unequivocal precision in an article published last week in the newspaper El Mundo under the title of 'The huge challenge of vaccines', in which he made some statements that are very accurate to me: 'Vaccination must be an absolute national priority and devote to it all public and private resources', pointed out the creator and director for several decades of our model National Organization of Transplants. "It's time to unite efforts and park political, territorial or competitive disputes," emphasizes Dr. Matesanz. You, Mrs. Darias San Sebastián, arrive in the ministry without the heavy burden accumulated by your predecessor. You, new in this health responsibility but with an accredited trajectory in the public service, now have the unrepeatable opportunity to erect yourself in the valiant of a national coordination that implements a common goal for public health. To waste such an occasion, it would be co-responsible that episodes such as those that in this first month of vaccination reflected different rhythms; different priorities; disparate, varied and confused protocols; inadequate syringes for the complete use of the vials; equivocal and contradictory messages; reprehensible behaviors to access the vaccine solidarily through the fake door, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the television stations do not stop the virus; slogans such as 'We get stronger' and the first-time issue of the packaging of boxes with the sticker and the government logo, either. Moncloa must abandon propaganda tactics and focus on our country's high priority. The urgent thing is to save lives. Lead that vaccine coordination to try to stop the epidemic and stop the contagion. Apply throughout Spain the formulas and logistics that have worked well. Madam Minister, instead of continuing the policy of deaf ears in the face of the numerous proposals made by the parliamentary groups, for example in the Reconstruction Committee, you should have what is proposed in the Courts. Do not perpetuate the sectarianism of the Government that sends to the trash not a few initiatives of the opposition, nor do it ex officio disregard measures that propose, solicit and demand the autonomous administrations that, over time, prove useful and effective. Instead of confronting autonomous presidents of different political color, as the Executive did throughout this crisis of the coronavirus, take care of the primordial and also take as a high priority to relieve the colossal personal and labor sacrifice of our health care workers - of the order of 120,000 infected professionals, the most infected in the world - so that the crisis does not prolong further and more as a consequence of the waves of the sick and the saturation of the ICUs. Tiredness and stress are common patterns among staff in health and social health facilities. I conclude, Mr President, by reiterating to the new minister my desire for success in the face of the pandemic that, speaking of vaccines, goes through this demanding counterclockwise race to immunize gradually but agilely in the next eight months to 28 million people over sixteen years and continue to make progress in the recovery of health and normality in the lives of the Spaniards. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u180	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I would like to thank you for your speech and also for your constructive tone and good wishes. I thank you sincerely, Your Honor. I want to begin by saying that the priority of this minister is to be the vaccination strategy, to finish and successfully close the vaccination strategy; a vaccination strategy, ladies and gentlemen, which is under way. A first assessment I want to make in this House at the beginning of the month is that we are making progress; that is the main news: we are making progress. Despite the difficulties, our country is one of the first in the world and in the European Union in vaccination and the arrival of vaccines, in spite of the drawbacks known to all, it will increase as the already authorized ones arrive but, especially, as the new vaccines that are currently in the process of rolling review or 'can also be incorporated, of course with the authorization of the European Medicines Agency. If we look back, in this horizon of hope to which we are all called, we see that on 21 December, following the favourable opinion of the EMA, the Commission authorized the conditional marketing of the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine. This vaccine began to be administered to all European citizens between 27 and 29 December. After an equitable distribution - I insist, equitable - by target groups has been distributed among all the autonomous communities. Let me express my gratitude to the Armed Forces for allowing that vaccination will also reach the territories furthest away from our country. Subsequently, on 6 January, the European Commission, also following the positive report by the EMA, reauthorised a second vaccine, Moderna, with which we had two. The first doses of Moderna arrived in our country on 12 January, with equal distribution by target age groups between communities and autonomous cities. Leaving aside specific incidents reported by BioNTech/Pfizer that have already been resolved, I would like to reiterate to this House that today, without counting the vaccines that have been delivered on Sunday and Monday and that will begin to be counted today Wednesday, 1,769,000 doses of vaccines have already been delivered to the Autonomous Communities, of which they have already been administered - this is inoculated - 1,673,000 and, moreover, we already have more than 400,000 people who have received the two full doses and are therefore immunized. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward, yes, we are moving forward and we are doing so with firm and decisive step. It is true that we would like to make further progress, of course, but it depends, firstly, on the successful conclusion of clinical trials; secondly, that they are authorised by the European Medicines Agency and, thirdly, that the industrial development of these companies is also achieved in the proper terms and, of course, that they comply with the contracts. I want to leave a clear message to this House. We have a State vaccination strategy that has been the result of the agreement, participation and consensus of the Government of Spain, the autonomous communities and the autonomous cities, therefore a participatory strategy and with the invaluable collaboration of the scientific societies and the Bioethics Committee; a strategy with robust solid principles but, in particular, with powerful ethical principles such as reciprocity, solidarity and equity. We know the first groups, I'm not going to stop at it, from the first update of the strategy. If I want to advance some milestones that I think are very important to those groups. We can practically say that already the autonomous communities - and I want to publicly acknowledge here their efforts - are finalizing group 1, except those residences in which there has been an outbreak and therefore, of course, it has had to be postponed. In addition, we are also making steady progress in the second group, in that of health personnel, which is very important. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we have made progress in another group of healthcare workers, especially those who have to be more than fifteen minutes without masks in the care of a patient. And we have made further progress, we have defined another group, which is that of people over 80 years of age, because they are particularly vulnerable, and I hope that they will understand and share this issue with us. Therefore, Your Honor, we are on the road to getting around 80% of people over 80 and much of Group 1 vaccinated by the end of March, as well as health-care staff and their health-care staff. It is a commitment of the European Union, of course our country is taking part in it. Your Honor, we are also making progress on the 70% commitment in the summer. Why? Because it is not only what we already have; we are pending, as you well know, the possible evaluation by the EMA, when the Janssen company presents its documents for the full rolling review, and we can see if it has been authorized. So, we'll have one more. In addition, I remind you that the AstraZeneca company in Oxford has recently been approved and authorized, and I hope that it will soon be able to specify what quantities will already arrive from this company to our country in this February and what day they will be able to manage. I insist, the vaccination strategy is moving forward and moving forward at a good pace and, moreover, we have to highlight - and I say this here publicly once again, let me do it - that we have a great National Health System; a great National Health System with excellent health professionals and a great healthcare network, which allowed us to vaccinate in eight weeks to 14 million Spaniards during the last flu campaign. Your Honor, our efforts will continue in the direction of supporting the Commission to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies. I would like to recall that, unprecedentedly, the European Union has carried out an early buying strategy that allows us to be placed in strategic conditions throughout the world and that it is also allowing us to already receive vaccines, that we are already bugging the population and that we are already beginning to have people immunized to get more and more people immunized than infected. I insist that the difficulty is in the arrival of the vaccines, but - as I have just announced - we already know that in February we will receive 2.3 million doses, both from BioNTECH/Pfizer and Moderna, and we are waiting to incorporate that of AstraZeneca - we hope that it will also be a significant amount - allowing us to have for the whole quarter only, in addition to BioNTECH/Pfizer, 4.5 million. Therefore, as honourable Members see, we are adding more and more, since we believe that the companies that are already authorised are also going to increase their production, of which Spain is responsible for 10%. Remember that the pool of six contracts that the European Union has signed means more than 2 billion doses. We are responsible for around 10%, about 200 million doses, a number that would mean not only having enough doses to vaccinate our population but even to do something else. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to insist that there is a single strategy, a single strategy that allows the autonomous communities to do the good work they are doing. I share with you that the autonomous communities already have the planning of the vaccines they are going to receive in the next five weeks, so that they can organize themselves in their planning systems according to the vaccines they are going to receive. Some specific problem that the company Zifer has had - which for you is well known - of course has already been solved. The company has said that it is already in a position to follow the same line of around 400 000-422,000 weekly doses. Mr Martínez Oblanca, I would like to say that I agree with you that the centralised approach of the European Union is a good one. You will understand that there are confidentiality clauses in these contracts and that it is therefore the European Commission or the pharmaceutical companies - which have imposed it - that have to respond to this confidentiality issue. And, of course, there is a single state strategy, I repeat, because there are no seventeen strategies. Each autonomous community develops the strategy that we have, by the way, adopted in a participatory, consensual manner since co-governance. I therefore do not share with you some of the statements. Nor have we created false expectations, because I have already told you that we have practically covered Group 1, Group 2, which will be over 80 years old, is very advanced and we are entering Group 3, and of course Group 4. It is true that we have an unprecedented challenge, I agree with you, but I believe that the important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is this role of the European Union with a portfolio of vaccines, in which, in addition to these six vaccines already known to all, we are awaiting possible negotiations, which are open both with Novavax and with Valneva; let us therefore say that it would be a new set of vaccines that will be incorporated. I would also like to share a clear opinion with this House: the robust ethical principles of this vaccination strategy should be sufficient for no one to take any shortcuts. There are no shortcuts in the vaccination strategy, ladies and gentlemen, there is no shortcut in this process, no shortcuts. We have to prioritize the most vulnerable people, our elders, who have given everything for us, the healthcare professionals who have given even their lives, who have taken care of us and will continue to take care of us, hence the priority of Group 1 and Group 2; and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to send a message that this order of priority for each and every group has a reason to be. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, which also seems to me to be important: in this percentage of 10% of the 200 million doses we have in Spain according to the contracts to which we are party in the European Union, Spain approved in the Council of Ministers on 19 January a plan for universal access to solidary vaccination, which is framed as the main milestone of contributing to the vaccination of a significant percentage of the world's population because we will not be sure if we are not all sure. I would therefore like to highlight this essential step forward and, of course, I share with all of you that this strategy is going to be the absolute dedication of this minister tomorrow, evening and evening, and I hope to find its involvement in all your ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I am at your disposal for any question and to share the steps that we continue to take. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much too, Minister, for your kind reply and for the information you have given us. I will also give you one: you are the fourth head of health of the governments presided over by Mr Sánchez for two and a half years; first it was Mrs Montón, succeeded by Mrs Carcedo from Asturias, just over a year ago Mr Illa and since last week, you. In politics, stability is always crucial, but even more so when there is a colossal storm that vapulates us like this one of the COVID-19. Having four health ministers in just thirty-two months of government is a bad management symptom and a bad sign when we talk about a ministry that is the health command bridge against the pandemic. Mrs Darias, I would like to reiterate this: take the opportunity to take a turn in the policy that the Government has developed in this emergency. If you're looking for different results, don't always do the same, Albert Einstein said. And if you, the chief health officer, are committed to continuing your predecessor's policy, you will be condemning Spain to reiterate its failure to manage the pandemic. I remind you that Spain has the dubious honour of being among the countries of the world that have acted worst throughout this year of the coronavirus and I speak to you only in terms of health, although in other respects, such as the economic one, we are also in a very bad position, as they demonstrated yesterday, without going any further, the terrible data of unemployment. You support your positive assessment of these first weeks of mass vaccination when even the President of the European Commission herself, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, had to go out publicly before yesterday to respond to the flood of complaints throughout Europe because of the problems arising from the failures of pharmaceutical laboratories. Yesterday and today the Community President is giving explanations to the parliamentary groups of the Eurocamera. You are, logically, disseminating the task of the government, but I suppose you are aware that in this House we are already trying to promote the creation of a committee of inquiry into vaccine management and, by the way, it is not driven by the evil opposition, no, no, by groups and deputies who supported Pedro Sánchez in his investiture and in the adoption of the General Budgets Act. You make an assessment that clashes with what we have seen in these first weeks of vaccination and that drags us towards non-compliance with the first objective set by the President of the Government. At the current rate of vaccination, Spain would need to multiply the daily doses by three times to reach the immunization of 23 million Spaniards at the end of the summer. He asked him to imitate what other countries like ours have already announced: firstly, to recognize the shortage and, secondly, to adjust his vaccination plan with a clear timetable. In Spain we also need a national plan and it is the Ministry of Health and only the Ministry of Health that has to lead it. He concluded by suggesting that if we also progress in the development of vaccination in Spain, he would communicate as soon as possible the formula to Brussels where they recognize without cover the supply problems; to Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel herself has already committed herself to the Länder to draw up a new plan. Communicate your master's formula to Italy, whose government has already taken AstraZeneca to court. By the way, the vaccine is that of AstraZeneca, that some countries will not put the 65-year-olds. In Belgium it will not be applied to those over 55 and I understand that Spain is going to effectively adhere to the fact that the AstraZeneca vaccine will not be applied to those over 65 years of age. Also tell Mr Macron, who has announced the re-adjustment of his vaccination plan, or Hungary, who has already decided to buy vaccines outside the European Union to cover deficiencies and has resorted to Sputnik V, which is effective at 92%. France and Germany are also considering buying this Russian vaccine. Madam Minister, Mrs Darias, you will appreciate the introduction of a subsequent motion for an inquiry so that all the groups in this House can position themselves on this vital issue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u184	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Health has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínez Oblanca, I'd like to comment on a few things. We established with the autonomous communities that the first quarter of this year was to be a quarter in which we knew the limitations of vaccine arrivals for the reasons I have previously commented to you, because production and industrial development are increasing. There have been problems with a company, it is true, serious problems with AstraZeneca, with which the Commission is negotiating and which it is demanding to comply with the contracts, and this minister is not going to say anything else. In the previous reply I have already said that we give our full support to the Kyriakides police station and above all to President Von der Leyen in her demand to the company AstraZeneca to comply with the contracts. You will understand that it is not the responsibility of this minister and the government that the company does not comply. That's where we can agree. Your Honor, every time a package of vaccines arrives, we make it public. Daily we publish the doses delivered, the doses administered and the percentages of the immune population. We announce everything more and more to the autonomous communities so that they can program their activity. Is there no transparency? Absolutely. The criteria are in line with the target and age groups; full transparency also in that. Your Honor, I do not understand some of the issues you have just raised. Of course, we would like the rate to be higher, but we have also said that from the second quarter many more vaccines would arrive; that too we have said. This minister and this Government have not come up with a single apex of what others are saying. There have been difficulties in the first quarter; difficulties shared, Your Honor, by all the countries of our environment, by France, by Germany, by Italy, by everyone. Some have gone to court, but, of course, this Government is going to give full support to the Commission, because it is the one who negotiates and works for the twenty-seven to enforce the contracts. He will also agree with me that if we did not have this centralized purchasing strategy, we would be in an impossible market. It is therefore a good thing that Spain is a protagonist along with the rest of the European countries. You can always see the glass half full or half empty, but, of course, this realistic minister is going to do what she is going to do is continue to support the work of the autonomous communities and health professionals. [[The lady]] By the way, the issue of syringes. Months ago, the Ministry of Health had already communicated which were the most suitable to extract the maximum amount of BioNTECH - Pfizer vials. But I also say one thing to you in favour of the Autonomous Communities. In the Pfizer data sheet initially there were five doses per vial. The autonomous communities, as it cannot be otherwise, followed the indications of the technical sheet, until, once they started working with it, they saw the possibility of extracting six, and the technical sheet has been changed. Therefore, communities have scrupulously complied. What I want is to send a message of realism, but also of hope; of realism and hope for the work being done by the Commission, by the Government, by the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products - which is our flagship, I sincerely say - and also for the geostrategic capacity that Spain is acquiring. Look, let's start providing filling capacity with Moderna's Rovi Pharma; moreover, the Spanish biopharmaceutical group Zendal will participate in the industrial production of the Novavax vaccine when it comes; also Reig Jofre's with Janssen's, which we hope can be announced soon, and also Insud Pharma with AstraZeneca's. What do I mean by that? It is true that we are now at a time of greater anxiety because we would like to vaccinate more, this minister the first and all communities too, because it is a priority to immunize. Vaccination, vaccination and vaccination is the priority objective of this Government, shared with the autonomous communities and securely shared by this House. I'm convinced here that I'm not going to find any leftovers and what I'm asking you to do is don't put sticks on our wheels, let them help us. This minister is going to be absolutely transparent, she is going to share with this House everything that is happening with vaccines, because, as I told you before, we are going to live. That's where I'd like to find them all, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, we will do so with a very powerful pharmacovigilance plan, which is leading the Spanish Medicines Agency together with the Autonomous Communities and the European Medicines Agency. The corporal. What do I mean by that? There is strategy, there is work, there is rigour and, above all, there is hope. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the amendment to the Commission's opinion on the proposal for the reform of Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December 1981 on the Autonomy Statute for Cantabria has been withdrawn, with a view to eliminating the suffocation of Members of Parliament and the President and Councillors of the Government. Consequently, the vote in the Chamber on all outstanding matters will take place at the end of tomorrow's sitting on Thursday, so that the deadline for the telematic vote on these matters will be from 16 hours today to 10 hours tomorrow. MOTIONS CONSEQUENCE OF EMERGENCY INTERPELATIONS: [[CONTINUATION]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to curb the invasion of Spain. [[File number 173/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u188	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures that the Government will take to curb the invasion of Spain. For the author group of the initiative, Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a population of 4341 people, 75 crimes are committed, of which 70 are committed by 9 persons. That is, that - as my colleague Rubén Pulido wrote - 0.2% of that population commits 93% of the crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a mathematical truth, but it is censored if I say that they are minas in Mataró. [[Applauds]] This is the reality. Censoring VOX tweets with the above content assumes that a few powerful ones that you encourage - you are nothing but the fluff of those great multinationals, of those billionaires of the great technologies - gag the third party of Spain and interfere in internal affairs of independent sovereignty. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are complicit in the fact that in the midst of the election campaign you have gagged our political party on social media. [[Applauds]] I know that I am not here to please either of you and that after this intervention you will start with your retahíla of xenophobic, racist, what a mess of intervention and all this, as one Republican Left once said, which doubted that we belonged to the category of people. I do not know, you will see, but the truth is that you are eluding a real debate that is on the street and for which the Spaniards are very concerned, mainly in Catalonia. And for that we are, to say what so many keep quiet, because so many suffer it and because so many demand it, mainly the most humble Spaniards. We are to fight against that bonanist religion that you have built, with which you are the adalides of moral superiority in this society and which, of course, is nothing but hypocrisy, hypocrisy that leaves the Spaniards constantly abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to tolerate the Islamization of Spain, which is what you are encouraging with multiculturalism, with your false goodism. I am here for you to be engulfed in the quarry of the feast of Pedro J., because while you offer, ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards suffer. The Spanish suffer because this migratory invasion - it is a migratory invasion, although it weighs you, because it occurs, we have said it many times, in a massive way and because moreover the movements are not integrative at all, and can be said very well by the neighbors of many localities of the Canary Islands - is materializing on many fronts, but the most important of all is the maritime front. This maritime front, to which I will pay special attention today, is a front on which we have an element for all of you: the NGOs that are operating in the Mediterranean and the Atlantic. Ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday, I think, I was leaving Badalona towards the Central Mediterranean, towards the triangle of the Libyan mafias, as usual, the Astral, the Open Arms ship, and I am going to stop at these NGOs that trade in the Mediterranean and in the Atlantic, because they do not rescue, trade; they trade with human beings in the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, people believe - because that's what TV says and because you are constantly selling it to them - that it's a group of boonist friends who get together on a boat and go to the Mediterranean to save people who are at sea. That's a lie. That's fake. That's not what's happening. What happens, apart from that story made in Hollywood in which Richard Gere appears from time to time, is something else. What happens is that some malnourished mobs who make a lot of money put people on a boat in North Africa, throw them into the Mediterranean and from there send a signal to the NGOs that are going to get them to take them not to the nearest port, but to the most European port. That, ladies, is not a rescue. Moreover, I do not say so; that is not a rescue under international maritime law, that is human trafficking. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in front, absolutely in front of human trafficking. Under maritime law, a rescue is something else. A rescue is a rescue operation to a ship that has had a casual incident on the high seas, and what happens when a rescue operation is sent to the nearest port. As I say, there is no fortuitous element here, but a mafia deliberately puts a boat on a site and warns an NGO to pick it up. And, incidentally, they don't take him to the nearest port, as we say, but they take him to the most European port. Hollywood's story doesn't match reality, because reality is cruel. The reality is raw, as raw as the money that is being taken by all of the people-trafficking NGOs. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be allowed. Spain cannot be allowed to be the paradise of the mafias. You cannot condone this betrayal that you are doing to the Spaniards or, as we have heard a few days ago, that persecution of the chief prosecutor of Las Palmas, who, instead of being concerned about the migratory invasion that is taking place in the Canary Islands, is concerned to see how many hate crimes and how much xenophobia there is among the poor neighbors who are suffering from crime on their streets. Ladies and gentlemen, your moral superiority sucks, stinks of abandoning all Spaniards. We have to take action. We have to defend the borders. You are the Parliament of Spain. You represent Spanish sovereignty, not Mozambique's sovereignty, and you have to protect the Spanish and you have to protect the Canary Islands. That is why a series of measures are needed, among others, a great naval operation for the surveillance and monitoring of the coasts, as our own Navy already does, but in operations for the benefit of Italy, as in Operation Sophia. In addition, the European Union needs to place special emphasis on protecting Spain's borders, because let us not forget that they are the external borders of the European Union and it is necessary to apply countermeasures when third parties The United States extorts the Spanish State. Ladies and gentlemen, things like these now say social democratic parties in the rest of Europe, such as the Danish Prime Minister last week or the Swedish Social Democratic Party. I will not tire of saying that you have abandoned and humiliated the Spaniards, that you are turning Canaries into a new Lampedusa and that you are also the lackeys of immoral elites who want the destruction of nations. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u190	Mrs. De Meer, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u191	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. It is more necessary than ever to choose between globalism or homeland. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u192	In defence of the amendment made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u193	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs De Meer, migration invasion, threat to national security, increase in sinestrality, economic cost, socio-health cost, real danger of infiltration of jihadist terrorists, dissolution of our Spanish identity, progressive Islamization of Spanish culture and society, weakening of our territorial integrity, our sovereignty and our security, need for countermeasures. These words are just some of the assessments that you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, have included in this motion, but I am sure that you do not believe this yourself. Islamization of Spanish culture, Mrs. De Meer? Really? Do you really think so? Weakening our sovereignty? Really? Our territorial integrity? Are you convinced? For look, Mrs De Meer, you have a responsibility to those who voted for you, very true, but you have another greater responsibility if it is possible as representatives of an institution such as this Congress and another with the rest of the institutions of the State, it is more, you have another even greater responsibility, I would say, with the rest of the citizens of this country, even if they have not voted for them, and that responsibility is not to encourage hatred in this country, Mrs De Meer, not to exacerbate the instincts of those who are sometimes unable to differentiate the political debate from reality, they are not able to screen the information to choose the right in the face of exaggeration. The thick stroke, the simplification, the call to the tribe, which is what you do, is what emerges only from the text of this motion. And when you are not responsible, Your Honor, you are irresponsible, deeply irresponsible, as in this case, Mrs De Meer. You do not want a debate on how to deal with this problem; you do not bring a single idea, a single solution, a serious future approach to what needs to be done. No; the only thing you have brought as a petitum is to ask for resignations. That is not a serious approach to solving the problem. Do you think that by resigning Mr Marlaska we are going to solve the problem of immigration? They bring nothing, nothing, not even migration policies that they take from other countries, not even agreements with the countries of origin of migration. They do not demand greater investment in international cooperation, they do not demand incentive, aid or collaboration programmes, no. You just want to put more gas in the fire. It's the only thing you bring this motion here for today. Your text only seeks to create social alarm, confrontation - as we are seeing these days in the Canary Islands - the simplification of us or them, it will not pass. With what credibility will you defend coexistence in the Catalonian campaign if you make speeches of good and bad according to the color of the skin? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Look, when you simplify the real problems, that you have the bad habit of having complex solutions, you fall into the same kind of populism that you criticize; that of Podemos, who says that by raising taxes to the rich there is already money to improve our social system, or that of Maduro, yes, Maduro, who says that he has miraculous gothics that cure the COVID, or even that of Trump, who said that the wall was going to be paid by the Mexicans. You're exactly the same populist as all of them, same thing, Mrs. De Meer. This motion only distils hatred, anger at the different and cheap populism, but above all, Mrs De Meer, is deeply irresponsible. [[The Lord]] It is true that it is not just you who are to blame, that this government helps a lot, and if we talk about one of those responsible, such as the ineffable Mr Marlaska, for what we want more. It is true that Mr Marlaska is more interested in bringing senior prisoners closer to Basque prisons or in competing for leadership with some cabinet partner than in designing real policies. This morning Mr Marlaska told us that the Canary Islands problem was almost the fault of the pandemic. Of course not, they're not doing anything, they're not helping, that's what we're all seeing, but that doesn't give you any reason to continue to increase hatred in this Chamber, so that the Spaniards believe that the only solution to this is confrontation, which is what you are about. This situation, Mrs De Meer, denigrates those who want to opt for a better life than they have in their countries of origin. The current situation endangers the professionals of our State Security Forces and Bodies, who are forced, without means, to deal with waves after waves of immigrants. The current situation only enriches those who meddle in the illicit trafficking of persons, those who trade in arms, drugs and international terrorism. Those mafias are the ones that put our security at risk, gentlemen of VOX, not the migrants, who are their victims. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President - I believe that measures must be tackled. Our amendment has a lot of measures, up to ten points of measures, but you are not going to accept any. Our obligation is to seek solutions, and what you do, gentlemen of VOX, is a very dangerous irresponsibility. Stop fomenting hatred in Spain and invest that time in hoisting your shoulder, proposing solutions, and do not light wicks that you will not be able to control, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u195	Good morning. Thank you, President. SOS Racism, in their last report - they take one out every year explaining the main discriminations that racism generates - tells us about police discrimination - this means identifications on the street without motive or exclusively on ethnic grounds and also means aggressions - tells us about labour discrimination - that is, migrant people go less to work because they are migrants - and housing discrimination - they are denied access to housing because they are migrants - and reports directly aggressions, that is, beatings, that is, violence. The same report also talks about the problem of hate speech. It is obvious that the extreme right makes hate speech, and what SOS Racism tells us is that hate speech is the step before aggression and violence. Therefore, what the report concludes is that there is a direct relationship between racist and hate speech and aggression and physical violence. This is the first conclusion we wanted to present here. The ladies and gentlemen of VOX systematically come here, to the stand, and to all the places where they can make manifestly racist speeches and, therefore, are partly responsible for the aggressions that are then on the streets, because hate speech defends violence. But it's just that, besides, most of the things they say aren't true. Other than racists, they're liars. We are systematically told about the responsibility of unaccompanied youth - they are very obsessed with them - in the macho attacks, for example. Mrs De Meer, in this particular case, what the aggressors of women, the rapists, have in common is that they are men, not migrants. This is the first thing. And the second thing is that most sexist assaults happen at home, not on the street, and they're not reported as rapes. They are systemic macho dynamics that nullify women and are carried out - I repeat - by men and, by proportion, obviously, most as Spanish as you like them. So stop telling lies about migration and macho violence. Then you tell us about Islamization. He's very concerned about globalism, you say. Do you know the most flagrant case of cultural colonization we have today, very globalist? It's Netflix, Mrs. De Meer, it's Netflix. Let go of Islamization nonsense, it's Netflix. In fact, if you want a specific case of cultural expansion or a problem with certain cultural values in relation to rights, I think of a very simple one that is also linked to the subject of macho violence, which is the Catholic Church and its obsession that women cannot abort. I can think of that, too. But then you talk about invasion. What do you say, Mrs. De Meer? You're the same as the 5G, the COVID doesn't exist, the vaccine is a lie. Please! What do they say? Please! Look, do you want us to talk, for example, about what is the main problem of health in relation to the origin of people? Health tourism is called. Do you know who's doing it? The ladies and gentlemen of northern Europe, in fact, is even a trade strategy. Sanitary tourism of the gentlemen coming to the hip, Mrs De Meer. I see you're not very worried about this. We also wanted to explain another of the lies that you say, that is to relate migration and security all the time. You say that since there is immigration there are security problems. Do you know what the main elements justify most of the crimes that are reported, Mrs. De Meer? Inequality and poverty. This should concern you, because, in fact, your party is the party of the rentists, of the marques, of the rich, which generates - if their policies are implemented - the main security problems. And I finish with a message to the compañeros and compañeras of the public and private media. That these people have the deputies they have in the Congress of Deputies is not free, it is because they have been made an incredible television campaign. [[Rumors]] Don't interview them. Let no one force you to interview them for reasons of importance and for electoral reasons. Doctors in the Spanish State managed to overthrow a law of the People's Party that prohibited access to public health for migrants by conscientious objection. Disobey, that then we're gonna have these people in institutions and we're gonna regret it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u196	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u197	Look what happened in the United States and look what's going on in the Canary Islands. I'm done, President. They live from fear; that we can live in societies that are critical, plural and committed to human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u198	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u199	We were going to give a political answer, but as I read the motion and saw the barbarities and lies that are poured into it I have seen that it is not worth it and therefore I will not do it. It is barbaric and it is serious and very worrying what has been said here, what we are hearing here, and so I will tell you, yes, that they are fascists, I will say that they are racist and that they are xenophobic. I'm gonna say that and I'm not gonna get tired of repeating it. And let's also say that Euskal Herria will always be a host country, it will always welcome with open arms all people who want a better future and that Navarra society and Euskal Herria society will continue to be anti-fascist to fight you. Thank you very much. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u200	Thank you very much. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u201	Mr President, I believe that in this House we should not tolerate...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u202	One second, on what basis does the article ask me to speak?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u203	On the basis of what you have just mentioned to us, Mr President. I think...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u204	You have an obligation to mention the article, please. Let's keep going. [[Applauds]] I have the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u205	Thank you very much, President. Through this initiative, together with the previous inquiry, VOX returns to practice the greatest demagogy and the worst of intentions, as the Foreign Minister told them on the occasion of economic and legal immigration on the southern border from the Maghreb. And VOX does, as the spokesman for Citizens has also pointed out, generating divisive crises in society, through a reality that they invent or manipulate, with a pattern or with global strategies of extreme right-wing populism, agitating deep passions through fear and hatred and taking advantage politically of it, even knowing to break up and divide the society they claim to be working for, into an inhuman game of lying and manipulation. And, as they were also told in the debate on the question, the most shocking thing is that this is practiced in a country of economic emigrants, and in their political time, who suffered and suffer persecution and even rejection of the countries of reception, passing, as is commonly said, those of Cain economic, social, emotionally, or all together, by the uprooting and misunderstanding resulting from the more or less intense rejection. This irresponsible policy of VOX adheres with the appeal to the defense of Spain against a supposed massive invasion of illegal immigrants who, in their opinion, represent an attack on territorial integrity, sovereignty, public security and identity - which is also said - and the essence of Spain, for the process of progressive Islamization that threatens Spanish society, because - in reality it is said in the interpellation - people who cannot be integrated. Faced with these claims of growing Islamization that threaten the identity of Spain and Europe, one might wonder whether VOX is really concerned about the fate of Christian cultural and religious values, when it does not practice respect for others or that you will not lie, among others. [[Applauds]] And VOX, before this, in his opinion, massive invasion of migration, proposes to us the adoption of countermeasures - so he calls them - to restore the sovereignty affected by measures against Morocco, Algeria and Mauritania because they practice, in his opinion, a covert extortion with the complicity - that is - also of the central government by stimulating with their behavior an effect called, when, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, what we really witness is not to an effect called, but to an effect fled from hunger and misery. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I must remind you that in a democratic state of law repatriations, as the Constitutional Court pointed out last November, in Judgement 172/2020, on the occasion of rejections at the border, must occur with four conditions or requirements. One, individualized procedures, not group procedures. Two, full judicial review. Three, real and effective compliance with international obligations. And, four, calling on security forces and bodies to pay special attention to the categories of particularly vulnerable people. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this motion and its interpellation are a compendium of VOX's ideology, infuses and strategy, agitating the fear in society of a problem that is European, because the wealth gap with the African continent, its high demography and proximity generate economic migration movements that demand common policies with countries of origin and transit rather than applying countermeasures, as they irresponsibly propose to us. This problem also claims not to lie or practice campaigns that incite hatred and much less during electoral processes as is now happening in Catalonia and which has motivated Twitter to close the VOX account in front of several comments against immigrants, groups of Maghrebians and Muslims, linking jihadism and Islamic terrorism with immigration and Islamism as a religion. A clear lie. I'll finish it, President. It is also something more serious than a pariah and, moreover, it lacks truth to say that parity rhymes with pariah. In this too things as they are, Mr Ortega-Smith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u206	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We're still... [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yeah, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u207	With regard to Article 72, with regard to Article 71.3, Article 103.1, Article 16 and all the articles relating to the decorum of this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u208	You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u209	I think you, as president, would have to be enforcing the rules, and it wouldn't even be necessary for someone like me to remind you that before a...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u210	Your Honor, one second. You have to respond to the comments you have made and not to the way in which the Presidency is leading the debate. If you're going to go that way, I won't give you the floor. So you say why you feel alluded to on the basis of Article 72. You have one minute to do it, but not to argue with the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u211	If instead of interrupting me, I had heard that I have said that the honourable Member has called us fascists, that it is something you should not allow and that it does not make me feel alluded to, but that it is intolerable and incompatible with the decorum of this House, which, as I say, is mentioned in Article 103.1, Article 16 and in the normal course of a House of this importance. It seems a lie that we are still listening to people who come from the philosophical world giving democracy lessons to others. It's true that when a minister... [[Protests. - Rumors.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u212	Thank you very much, your speech has become clear. [[Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon continues to speak from his seat]] We continue with the debate. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs De Meer, you bring us here a bazophy consisting of a very simple, very cruel and indecent promise, which is, at a time when everyone is having a very bad time, to promise everyone that they will have someone to be ruthless about, that no matter how unfortunate you are, they will always have someone who is below who can trample or who can feel privileged. It is simple and plain - I have told you many times - the morale of the servant: the gacha ears with the ones above, the dullness with which it is going worse. Because in fact, yours is not just racism; you don't hate outsiders; you hate the poor. You came to read in an election campaign rally the names of the people who received social assistance to prove that they came from outside. You, the De Meer, the Smiths, the Steegmanns and the Kuijpers, reading names of people to prove that they come from outside to get help. I've never been to look at anyone's last names because I don't think they say anything, but you have to have a quilt. You told us that we had to make a choice between globalism or homeland, that we had to make a choice about defending sovereignty. Look, the shares you control nineteen out of thirty-five IBEX companies are in foreign hands, almost all American, and you're quiet. BlackRock, an American investment fund, already controls DIA, Ferrovial, Repsol, Iberdrola, Telefónica and Aena. You, about this national sovereignty, shut up. We no longer have a national pharmaceutical company, a public flag airline, or a national telecommunications, metallurgical, electrical or automotive company. And VOX, shut up. Investment funds already control half of the Spanish stock exchange and pay 63% of taxes outside. And VOX here, defending national sovereignty, nothing. Why? Why are we not talking here about national sovereignty or the invasion of foreigners? Because you're rich and, in that case, you don't mind. In fact, it is not even true that you do not want migrants to come without proper paperwork. What you want is for them to come, but for them to come without a voice and with fear so that they can explode until the body endures. Look, Fran, 33, was a worker from Bolivia. In 2009 he lost an arm working in a bakery in Valencia. His boss grabs the arm he just lost, dumps it in the trash and leaves Fran 200 yards from a hospital warning him not to say anything. Why can he do that? Because he worked without papers and in black. Eleazar Benjamin Blandón was a 42-year-old Nicaraguan worker. He died in August 2020 working in the watermelon in Murcia. Your sister says the following. One day he called me crying: here one is humiliated; they call me a donkey, they shout at me, they tell me I'm slow; they throw the dust in your face when you're crouched; I'm not used to being treated like this. His sister also said: He and his partner cried impotence as little children when they returned from the countryside; he told me that where they worked cutting watermelons sometimes they had them from seven in the morning until six in the afternoon and all they earned was 30 euros, it depended on the trucks they carried; he worked without contracts and without papers, and so they could leave him dead at the doors of a hospital. Said Aballa, 31, was a Sahrawi worker who died of working on an olive grove in Pozo Alcón, Jaén. His boss had hired him that same day and in black; he picked him up on the street and said, "I'll hire you for a day at a time and in black." The initials of his pattern are F.M.E., he was a councillor of the People's Party and, like many of you, then he took over VOX, he took over VOX. When F.M.E. of VOX hired black workers, like the one who then left dead at the door of a health center - and could do so because it was illegal, because it had no contracts and because it was unprotected -, what did it do? Were you fighting the foreign invasion? Or were you profiting from their coming with fear, their coming in illegality and their being exploited? [[Applauds]] A few years ago, in a demonstration of African temporary workers in southern Italy, they taught a banner that I always remember, which said, "They wanted arms and people arrived." That's the problem, you don't have a problem with them coming; you want them to come in silence, without rights and with fear so that they can explode and - it's literal - until they don't give them life, until they don't have the body. Life has become very hard, people are already consuming more anxieties than any other kind of medicine, the Spaniards are - we are - going through very hard times and at the moment when solidarity is the most lacking, hoisting the shoulder, cooperating, it turns out that some evil gentlemen come to bleak the hatred against those who are going through it worse, against those who are in more difficult situations. You, Mrs. De Meer, insulted many popular neighborhoods in our country by calling them multicultural terns. After listening to her, it is clear to me that for many millions who bequeathed to them their grandparents, for many houses that will leave them in inheritance, for many compound surnames, you are a moral scumbag. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, Mrs Franco Carmona has the floor. [[Mrs De Meer Méndez asks for the floor]] Yes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u215	I just wanted to say that Mr Errejón, who has intended to offend us, has not even looked at the minute of intervention in which I said that you make humble neighborhoods into multicultural terns. But not only that, but you with your speech what you just did...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u216	Your Honor, you can't get into the debate again. [[Mrs. De Meer Mendez continues to speak from her seat]] No, Mrs. De Meer, you don't have the floor. We cannot debate, you have felt alluded to, you have responded to allusion and nothing more. Okay? I give the floor to the spokesman for the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today during the plenary session we have witnessed the umpteenth spread of loudspeakers and lies, and I have no choice but to rebut some of them. On the repeated request for naval operation, Teodoro López Calderón, head of the Major State of the Navy, recalled that the duty of any Spanish warship would be, legally and morally, to rescue them. Secondly, there is no so-called effect; the only thing there is is a runaway effect; there is no invasion, it is despair; despair for fleeing wars, violence and poverty. Thirdly, they have spread bubbles like that the emergency canary income has been received only by foreign persons. Lie! From the Canarian Government, 16,000 grants have been granted, of which only 3,500 would be granted to persons with NIE or passport. And fourthly, on the issue of hotels, which you so much like to take out, I have to remind you that these are hotels closed by the pandemic and that they serve as temporary accommodation, but there are not 10,000 people staying in hotels or receiving 10 euros a day, as you have said. Stop selling as a luxury holiday what remains a real human drama, migration. But, of course, you are not interested in telling the truth, you are interested in continuing to spread bubbles and encouraging hatred. They are causing a break in the coexistence in the Canary Islands, as they have tried other times in my land, causing a huge escalation of violence, even with beatings to locate and prosecute migrants, and with aggressions such as the one suffered on January 28th by the daughter of Aminetu Haidar, a recognized human rights defender of the Saharawi people. I ask you from here, from this rostrum, for the good of the Canarian people and for the good of the Spanish people in general, to stop spreading bubbles and taking advantage of the worsening living conditions of the population. You should not be concerned about the arrival of migrants, the pandemic has shown that it is the migrants who have cared for us most, in hospitals, in residences, in supermarkets, in the countryside and even in our own homes. If you have fruits and vegetables on your table it is because the migrant people - whom you are rejecting - have picked them up, packed them up, transported them and even brought them to your table. [[Applauds]] Yes, we call for regularization of migrants because it is fair that all those who were in an irregular situation in our country at the beginning and during the pandemic should be regularized. To the rest of the House, I say that the speeches of the far right are not simply misguided. It tries to confront people with the highest level of vulnerability, those born in Spain and migrants fleeing their country because of the desperation caused by severe poverty. Because no one, ladies and gentlemen, leaves his family, his personal networks, his neighborhood, his roots and his home and rides on a dungeon risking his life if not out of despair. Ladies and gentlemen, the precariousness and lack of expectations suffered by workers in our country, especially in areas more affected by poverty, such as Andalusia and the Canary Islands, only make it worse. We need to continue to work to increase wages, to put an end to insecurity and to re-industrialize our country, but also to continue to guarantee international reception and protection and to foster coexistence, as this coalition government is doing. Because that's the only solution. Finally, a little bit of history in Spain, which I think the right-wing gentlemen like quite a bit. In Spain there was already an experience - not perfect, but enormously rich - of multiculturalism, al-Andalus. In Al-Andalus three cultures coexist: Muslim, Jewish and Christian. It was the Hispanic monarchy that caused a huge invasion - that was an invasion - genocide and concealment. And today you, gentlemen of the far right and the rest of the House, are going to visit the Alhambra, the Giralda and the Mosque and walk through Andalusia full of Andalusian elements. The lesson of multiculturality will not be given by me, it will be given by the Andalusian people and writers like Antonio Manuel, in their stories about the Andalusian people, but it will also be given to Caliphate 3/4 with letters as it is: My mother is praying all day, she is Christian, Mora and Jewish. My mother's been praying all day. Her name is Andalusia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u218	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u219	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spaniards do not want extremism, they do not want radical positions such as those practiced day by day by the PSOE government and Podemos, on the one hand, and VOX, on the other. The country's focused and moderate majority, like the People's Party, is in favour of migration, but of regular, orderly and labour-market-oriented migration. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, there are aspects of your motion on which we can agree, such as the resignation of the Ministers Marlaska and Escriva for their incompetence and negligent management, especially because this has been called for by the People's Parliamentary Group for a long time. But let me tell you that the toughness of the motion is a little incoherent in asking the government to resign, the same government that saved last week by voting in favour of giving all power to the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias so that from Moncloa they managed the European funds. [[Applauds]] Thanks to VOX the government was saved last week and thanks to VOX the socialist government and Podemos will manage the European funds, including those destined for migration, with absolute freedom. This morning, with the blows of the President of the Government, the support has been shown; congratulations. With regard to the other questions you raise, we say this more clearly than you: who enters Spain irregularly, like the thousands of irregular immigrants who have arrived in the Canary Islands, must be repatriated to their countries of origin, not to the peninsula, as more than 2100 migrants have been transferred since last June, as the Government itself acknowledges in a parliamentary response, denying what Mr Marlaska said this morning, to whom we ask you to strive to come to this House without ever lying. And ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, it would be desirable if we could stop marking for once the government's migration policy. Never before had there been a migration crisis such as the one that is being experienced in the Canary Islands, an unprecedented migration crisis where human rights have been violated, and this group does not say so, but the judge of the CIE, who says something so dantastic as that immigrants have been overcrowded as if they had been won, and this with a progressive left government. [[shows a press clipping]] Also with the migration crisis have lost their lives more than 2,000 people drowned near the Canary Islands; a migration crisis in the Canary Islands where the government's motto has not been 'no one stays behind', the motto has been 'I invite and you pay'. It has been the canarian municipalities that have faced many of the costs of caring for migrants without receiving any assistance from the Government. We proposed from the People's Parliamentary Group the setting up of a fund of aid to autonomous communities or municipalities that the Government rejected and vetoed. Just as he vetoed the entrance of this humble deputy along with several colleagues in this House and the Senate to the Barranco Seco reception camp. To us the government of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias put the police at the door so that we would not enter the immigrant camp; to the deputy of Bildu they put the red carpet. [[Applauds]] To us, to a democratic party, a party with a sense of state, a party that has transferred powers to them, as you will do to us sooner rather than later, we are sent by the police to prevent us from moving to an immigrant camp, and instead to the party that has not condemned the death of many of our comrades and also theirs put the red carpet on it. You're not ashamed. [[Applauds]] Finally, I would like to address the spokesman for migration of the Socialist Group, who in the ensuing inquiry this motion tried to give lessons on migration policy to the Group of the European People's Party. Look, Your Honor, there's no difference between you and me, we're the same, you're the same for me, it's for my group as one more, like the rest of people, equal in rights and freedoms. Do not let yourself be used and stop flying the flag of migration because when it comes to denouncing the human rights violations of many migrants in the Canary Islands you have been silent. You have defended your party, your chair and your seat before the migrants. That's all right. I conclude, President, and I do so by summarizing our defense of a regular, orderly and labour-oriented migration policy; this is the only way people who seek a better life win, this is the only way our country wins, this is the only way we do not win the mafia with irregular immigration. This is what the People's Group defends and the focused and moderate majority of this great host country as it has been, is and will be Spain, within the law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u220	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Diouf Dioh has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this country we have a great challenge, to end the pandemic and to vaccinate the population, and there will be once again the Government and our health care workers saving lives, but in our country we have an epidemic, that of hatred, that of racism, xenophobia and, ladies and gentlemen, all of us, the 350 who are, it is up to us to stop it. Democracy enjoys good health, but it is fragile. It is up to us to take care of it, marking a line between those who defend democracy and those who approach fascism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, leave the racist slogan and incorporate the rule of law in your speech into the reality of migration. What do you think when hunting is promoted to kill immigrant people? What do you think when the Secretary of State for Migration has to defend herself from hate attacks? You are outside the rule of law when you pervert the reality of migration. [[Applauds]] They play that there is no pandemic, to say that the problem of immigration and the lack of tourism in the Canary Islands is for immigrants. And you know what the problem is, ladies and gentlemen of VOX? The pandemic, because there are restrictions on the freedom of movement of people and the closure of airports that have slowed the economy and our policies. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, if you do not stop poisoning with your hatred, Spain will break and you will be the culprits. Look at the European values you speak of in this motion. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, they were created because the whole of Europe said: Not phrasing, not Nazism, not hate speech. Europe has been built on the ashes of war and on the ashes of millions of people, communists, socialists, homosexuals, gypsies, Africans and Jews. Europe has today built a space where human rights are law and migration law is discussed in these parameters. Put that in your head, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. The policies pursued by this Government are European policies and the Government of Spain acts and deals in a coordinated manner, to address migration flows through safe, orderly and regular management, with meetings in the European Union with the President of the Government to address migration phenomena because it is in Europe that the pacts are signed together with the European Frontex and Europol agencies. Disarticulation of human trafficking networks, within the Ministry of the Interior, development cooperation policy agreements, bilateral meetings with countries of origin and transit, strengthening of the unit against immigration networks and documentary falsity, facilities of centers, CATE, more means of marine rescue, opening of the Mother's House - the People's Party left us with almost 100 emergency places and we have raised them today to more than 10 000-, Canary Islands emergency plan with more than 7000 places and the increase of the budget allocation by more than 106 million euros. Those are the policies that are being implemented, not the bubbles and lies of VOX. Gentlemen of the People's Party, don't give immigration lessons. I still remember that you were the first to talk about the effect called. There was a problem and we solved it. Drugging immigrants on a plane wasn't an option, and they did. VOX makes a call to hate, and against hate, law. The conatos of racism that have VOX and some other politicians in that land of ours, which is Canary Islands, as a speaker, I can assure you that will not happen. They will not pass because Canarias is a hospitable, solidarity and cosmopolitan land. We have the reference in Pedro Zerolo. Canaries is socialist, solidarity, and with an untiring struggle against discrimination, developed by comrade Pedro Zerolo. You have been reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office for your actions in Catalonia, for the exaltation of fascism and Nazism. They invade social networks with racist dyes and have been suspended in the networks for inciting hatred against Muslims. They invade institutions with intolerance. Speaking of invasion, you're the invaders. And, Mr. Speaker of the People's Party, whoever knows me knows I've never hidden. Look in the hemerotheques and you'll know about Luc Andre. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs De Meer, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u223	No, we don't accept it. And by Article 71.3, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-03-CD210203.u224	You don't have the floor. The session is over. It's suspended until 9:00 in the morning tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was one and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
