ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u2	The pardons have to end in our country. Catalan secessionism is a reactionary movement that cuts down democratic rights and freedoms. Compliance with the judgment of 1 October implies full failure to comply. No one is above the law. Illegal referendums must be banned and criminalized. Mr. Sanchez, you said all this. He lied to the Spaniards to win the election and the next day he agreed with the secessionists to make him president. It has become clear that it is due to them and not to the Spanish. That is why he now wants to pardon them, betraying his word, the ethical code of the Socialist Party, twelve reports of the Prosecutor's Office, the Constitution and the equality of the Spaniards. For the granting of a pardon, you should remember that it is necessary first to ask for it, then to have the court report and then to repent and commit not to recidivism. None of that fulfills their partners, but the opposite. But you want to save a personal problem by turning it into a state problem. He prefers to put the continuity of constitutional Spain at risk in exchange for continuing you in power. Is that how you defend Spain's interests? Answer this Parliament. Are you going to pardon those convicted of sedition, yes or no? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, yesterday I heard you talk about legality and the defence of territorial unity and, indeed, that is the question, how democratic legality is defended and how unity of Spain is defended. It should be remembered, Your Honor, that those who were made on 1 October and raised a unilateral declaration of independence were not to this progressive government, but to a government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You yourself, Your Honor, before February 14th, recalled that the management that your Government, the People's Party Government, did on October 1st, was a disaster and that you were against that management. Keep that word, Your Honor. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u6	The Spanish Constitution reflects both punishment and harmony in its spirit. There is a time for punishment and there is a time for concord. The government will take... [[Rumors]] The government will make its decision in conscience and I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that we would make the same decision... [[Mrs Martínez Ferro utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u7	Mrs. Martinez Ferro, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we would take the same decision as if the progressive government had three hundred seats. The Government of Spain will make a conscious decision in favour of coexistence among all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u9	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u10	Mr. Sanchez, you've come too far. You say that in constitutional values there is neither revenge nor revenge, but compliance with the law is not revenge and defending national unity is not revenge and hitting legality is not a constitutional value. You say that we must bet on concord, coexistence and respect for the laws, but you want to pardon those who have attacked the laws, rescinded the agreement and boosted the coexistence. He says equidistantly that we must overcome fractures and mistakes, but only we have suffered his health cord and separatist violence. You are president of Spain thanks to those who want to end Spain and that is already all you are. The payment they ask him for having put him in the Moncloa will be his finiquito and the epitaph of the Constitutional Socialist Party. Stop fooling us with Spain in 2050, when their real bosses don't even want Spain to reach 2022. The Spaniards are running out of patience and you are running out of time. In the meantime, we will appeal to the Supreme Court for pardons and as soon as we reach the Government, we will amend the law on pardons for crimes of sedition and rebellion and the Penal Code to punish illegal referendums. We will defend justice, the Constitution and the nation, and we will not allow either you or the coupsmen to do so again. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u11	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u12	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I have said it before and I repeat it again: the Constitution contains both punishment and concord, and there is a time for punishment and a time for concord. [[Rumors]] This government will make its decision for the benefit of coexistence between Spaniards and will do so regardless of the number of seats that support it, because we would make the same decision with three hundred seats, or with one hundred and twenty as the Socialist Parliamentary Group has, for the benefit of harmony, coexistence and the encounter between Spaniards. You, ladies and gentlemen, and you in particular could at least commit to the state, defend the government, as did the Socialist Parliamentary Group when it supported your government at such a difficult and complicated time as it was in 2017 with that adoption of the unilateral declaration of independence that you made to your government, to your party. You did not defend the territorial integrity and unity of Spain, what you did was precisely weaken the foundations of the State in the face of this clash of coexistence. Therefore, be accountable and also support the Government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT IS THE PLAN OF HIS GOVERNMENT FOR THE YEARS 2021 AND 2022? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00547]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u13	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo from the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u14	Good morning, Mr. President. It will not be me who denies that in politics it is convenient from time to time to raise your eyes and look to the future. We already know the desideratum of the Plan 2050, with some centralist touch, but you will agree with me also that from time to time you have to look at the ground, because we can meet pebbles that, not by inadvertently, do not know that they are there and that they can spoil things. I am as interested as you that this legislature succeeds because the legislatures are for that, to conclude, but I think we have to go ahead with the policy of things. So, what is the government's plan for 2021 and 2022?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u15	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u16	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam President. The plan that the Government of Spain has for 2021, for 2022 and also for 2023 is the one that I set out in my investiture speech, it is the one that I have set out throughout all appearances in the state of alarm, and also when you have been pleased to invite me to participate in these debates, which is the vaccination, recovery, overcoming the pandemic and, consequently, the progress and transformation of our country. In this regard, I believe that, among other issues, what this Government has done has been an unprecedented exercise of co-governance in all areas, from the point of view of health policy decision-making in the face of this pandemic emergency as in many other issues, such as the co-management of recovery funds from the European Union. Therefore, Your Honor, I believe that this Government recognizes the composite State that is Spain and recognizes where the competences of each and every one of the administrations lie. So, what I can guarantee is that that will be the usual tonic that we will have until the year 2023, which will be when the legislature ends as you have well remembered. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u17	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u18	Mr President, I will remind you of one of the specific policies that must be taken and that it is not understood that they have not already been taken. On the issue of European funds, for example, we need to know a specific timetable for each ministry - what, when and how -. Of course, pensions and labour reform must be clarified as soon as possible, we do not know the whole of the document sent and what we have talked about with the European institutions. In Industry, proactive decisions have to be made in key sectors that are being hampered, and today they are very important for the country's economy, such as the gas sector. It is not understood that in the machine tool sector, which has 50 million in the budget, nothing has yet been executed and the ministry is watching without knowing what to do. We do not understand the dysfunctions that exist between the ministries - and in this it is very important that you intervene - of Transport and Environment, which in the end cause inefficiency, for example, on issues such as the high speed train. It is not understood that the government delegate in the Basque Country - and I hope you do not share it - says that there will be no underground entrance of the TAV in Gasteiz because that would break our agreements with the government. It is not understood that the minimum vital income has not already been transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community and that the last offer is as impossible to accept as the one presented to us, because it also breaks what has been agreed with me personally. It is not understood that we still have five new taxes that are unagreed and that it is urgent to do so. It is important that we face the territorial model of Catalonia and Euskadi at once and with concrete results. In addition, you have the European Convention, to which we must pay great attention. Perhaps the European Convention, if you work well, can give you solutions to then fix things in the internal territorial model. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u19	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u20	Finally, I also have nuances to make to one of the issues that you have raised. I believe that the Government of Spain, during these long months of pandemics, has tried to make all the investment commitments come true, but also to manage a pandemic, Your Honor. That is what we have been doing and, I insist, with an exercise of co-governance that has not been done by any Government over the past 40 years of democracy. Get to know him at least. Let you tell me that we have not yet materialized that transfer of vital minimum income, man, this Government has made quite substantial transfers over the last few months to Euskadi, which at least you could recognize, in that exercise of compliance with the Statute of Gernika. You have also spoken to me about some issues related to the management of infrastructure, transport and so on, which we have already talked about. Your Honor, I think we have many months ahead to materialise many of those commitments that both your party and ours have signed precisely to achieve the investment agreement. Therefore, co-governance and understanding between the two parties. Your Honor, we are also managing a pandemic and the main concern that the Basques have right now and also the whole of Spanish and Spanish is the recovery and overcoming of this pandemic, and certainly also the vaccination and the horizon of hope that is opening up to the whole of Spain. [[Applauds]] - of Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus, of the parliamentary group EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, which expresses to the Lord President of the Government: will it develop in what remains of lawmaking the agenda of the Izquierdas and progresista that it promised? [[File number 180/00546]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u21	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u22	Thank you. President, it has been a year and a half since you were elected president and, without obviating all the effects of the pandemic, your coalition government began the process by promising an agenda that would have profound changes and improvements in the life of the social majority and also in the conception of this state and its democratization. Today, in the face of this emboldened and reactionary right that seeks an anti-democratic and re-centralizing counter-reform, this agenda is now more necessary than ever, but it does not arrive. That's why I'm asking you if what's left of the legislature will develop the left and progressive agenda you promised.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u23	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, I was reviewing what we have done during this year and a half that you have commented on: the law on riders, the law on teleworking, the law on euthanasia, the law on climate change, the equal pay for men and women, the law on child protection - in processing - the law on democratic memory, the approval of minimum living income, the amendment of article 49 of our Constitution, the repeal of that article of the Criminal Code, which made it very difficult for trade unionists to enter prison... Your Honor, I believe that this government is implementing a reformist agenda, a progressive agenda and is precisely doing so in an extremely difficult context such as the pandemic. I therefore believe that this can be described as a progressive government that is making a progressive agenda, as I proposed and promised precisely in my investiture speech. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u25	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u26	Yes, Mr President, I recognize all your progress that you have commented on; this shows that there is much to be done, but there is still much to be done. I have told you before, we are aware of the difficulties offered by the pandemic, but we also know that citizens are not meeting their expectations because they do not do everything that was said and they did not fulfill everything that was promised. We believe that we must realize that we cannot succumb to the agenda of the extreme right and the extreme right, that we need to take deeper and far-reaching measures that change the paradigm of precariousness and cuts to move towards the recovery of rights and dignity; that is what we are playing. Mr Sánchez, every space that the left gives in rights and freedoms is won by the right and authoritarianism because it is true, we are at a historical crossroads, we can go to models that generate more inequality or we can go to models that try to eradicate that inequality. That is why we ask you to take the decisions that you have not made so far, to repeal the labour reform, to end the law of the labour market, to regulate rents, to dignify pensions, to bet a fair taxation, to address plurinationality from dialogue and agreement. That is what must be done, Mr Sánchez, with the progressive majority in this House. It has the social majority, the union majority and the political majority to do so. Do it, Mr Sánchez, and hurry up because if you don't, the right hand will eat it and destroy it with the rights and freedoms that so much struggle has cost to conquer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Finally, I believe that we must also contextualize the action of the Government and it is fair that you can effectively oppose any of the issues that the Government makes and even criticize the slowing down of some of those reforms that you point out, but what cannot be denied is that this is a progressive court government that is implementing a progressive agenda. I have previously referred to the social achievements we have achieved in record time. Or does it seem to you that you have less of a vital minimum income, precisely to combat social exclusion and child poverty? Or does it seem to you that you have passed a Climate Change Act that we are ten years behind schedule? Or does it seem to you that you are underage, Your Honor, to have passed the Child Protection Act? Or does it seem to you, Your Honor, to be less than that which would promote transparency in favour of equal pay for men and women? Or does it seem to you, Your Honor, that we are dealing in this Congress with a law of democratic memory? Your Honor, I believe that we are fulfilling all the milestones and objectives that we have set ourselves, and above all we are doing so in the midst of a pandemic, and also without compromise and without the support in this case of the conservative bench, that we already had that of course. Finally, do not tell me, Your Honor, that this is not a government that is precisely defending a progressive agenda because this is a progressive government. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, which FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE Vice-President believe that the Government will be able to address the inefficiencies of her management with her 2050 plan? [[File number 180/00554]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u29	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u30	Thank you, President. As the first conclusion of this part of the control session it is clear that pardons have been confirmed by the President of the Government. Madam Vice-President, you are unable to solve the current problems that the Spanish have and you are telling us that you will solve those in thirty years' time. Mrs Calvo, more Spain from 2021 and less odyssey in space. Have you stopped to think about what you'll think of your fanciful Plan 2050 that doesn't come to the end of the month, but which has already been announced in your quotas? Or that businessman who has asked for the direct aid that you approved in March but who does not receive it, because you have approved a system as raging as the minimum income and the money does not arrive? Or that MIR that had to be thrown into the streets because they force them to choose specialty blind, which will be the specialists of 2050? Or is he afraid that Morocco will reopen the border indiscriminately because they have not resolved the diplomatic crisis? If I have said it and I repeat it, with this government you can only have two things: that they always lie and that they will always raise our taxes. And now, Mrs. Calvo, a third: they're going to pardon the thugs. Can you confirm that for us here today, Mrs. Calvo? Yes or no? You are not able to solve the problems of the Spaniards, who need solutions already so that their ERTE do not become ERE. And, by the way, it is a real shame that, when there are five days left for the deadline to come, they have not yet approved the extension. For all this, I ask you: Do you think the government will be able to cover up so much incompetence and disloyalty with its 2050 Plan? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u31	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, the most serious problem of disloyalty that Spanish politics has at the moment is the way to oppose you, who are an unrecognizable PP. [[Rumors]] You've gone from the continuous algarada to the magic. Last week you said: I would have made it perfect, I know this, I know this. Look at him, because they haven't helped in sixteen months, going through a pandemic and a complicated situation, not once in a single thing. Look at him! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u33	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u34	Mrs Calvo, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party is unrecognizable with you. Ask President Felipe González. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] His obsession with asking for loyalty to the opposition is only comparable to his inability to be loyal to the interests of the Spanish. You move between the manipulation of history, trying to change memory, and the fable of science fiction. You are going to leave this country as a place of unemployment, uncertainty and poverty. The Spaniards want solutions now, focus on the here and now, which we have enough, because what the Spaniards want for their future is for Pedro Sánchez to get out of it as soon as possible. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, a small democratic aspect: the governments in Spain, fortunately, are going out the ballot box. [[Applauds]] Do you understand? By the ballot box, not when you say it here in a control session. Seriously, one of the endemic problems of Spanish politics, historically speaking, is the short look. The history of Spain, which you know very well, is full of situations in which politics has not been able to prevent. For once a government is serious about a long and strategic look at the position of our country and the problems of our country, you go, the great opposition party, and all you think about is nothing. That is what you are doing to Spanish politics, I told you the other day and I have to repeat it again: nothing! You guys are in a constant state of nurturing, I'm not going to stop telling you. From yesterday to today they are in the defense of the Constitution continuous, but not more than four days ago they warned us that they will remain in rebellion with the two powers of the State - this, the Legislature, and the Judiciary, without renewing the General Council of the Judiciary - because they want to change the Constitution to do so. You are that model of constitutionality, that model in which you are involved in Spanish politics and, in addition, you are confusing at a particularly delicate time. You are here every week and although the State Official Gazette does not like you, here is the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, the minimum living income, the mobilization of historical resources. This crisis... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHERE DOES THE INDOOLENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT LEAD? [[File number 180/00550]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u38	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u39	I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u41	For the House, he wondered about the indolence of the Government. Crossing a pandemic, impossible indolence, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, impossible. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u42	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u43	Madam Vice-President, last week you reproached me very much for the fact that VOX defended the illegalization of parties contrary to the Constitution. You have a problem with democracy - it came to me to say -, which is being your standard answer ask you what I ask you. But it is the opposite, we respect democracy, and that is why we defend it precisely from those who have the sole purpose of ending it, from those who do not condemn and even legitimize violence, who use the resources and mechanisms of the State to liquidate it and from those who allow it, who are just you. That is why a few months ago I myself had the honour of defending a proposal for a law to introduce into Spain what is quite normal in countries of our environment, that is, to illegalize separatist formations, that is, those that do not comply with the Constitution. It is true that in VOX we remain alone, since no group in the House supported it, you know that only VOX remains. And that which almost twenty years ago the Political Parties Act received 93% of the support in this House, including, by the way, the votes of the Socialist Party, and that allowed the illegalization of a dozen parties that are essentially those that are now confluent in Bildu. What has changed since then for you to defend today those who tried to illegalize and got it a few years ago? For today you are your partners in the direction of the state, and those of you will never illegalize you. You want to illegalize VOX, and while you're in it, what you're legalizing is our political activity, either in Ceuta, or in Melilla, or in Vallecas, it's what you're trying to illegalize. They want to illegalise VOX, but they do not worry about remaining subject to those who have as their only project to end the unity of Spain, because everything is worth Mr Sánchez to remain in power. And now will come the reactivation of that unworthy negotiating table with the thugs, the pardons, the prison benefits to the thugs, the break-up of the single box with Social Security; to all this is to what leads their indolence and weakness to defend the nation. Many have taken note, Madam Vice-President, of the separatists, obviously the first of all, but now Morocco has also joined forces, which has not hesitated to organize a genuine invasion of migration in our nation because they have perceived that indolence and weakness. We don't know what the next one will be, but we know for sure there will be some more unfortunately. Because for the Spaniards your government is a danger, but for those who want to end Spain your government is a great opportunity. That is why you must leave as soon as possible, because today the real danger to democracy is you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u44	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you always ask me the same thing, because you do what you do is question the democratic model. This is the government of a great democracy that operates with principles and democratic rigours, among which is the coexistence of different ideas, which has cost you a lot of work throughout history and I see it still costs you a lot of work. Do you know what I'm talking about? To live with each other by upholding the principles that include us all so that we can make an exact reflection of what our country is like. And so does the territorial structure of our country; the right, and you in particular, but the People's Party, too, have not yet accepted the reality of this country, the historical reality of this country, which makes us have a diverse territorial structure. On the day you accept it, because in the Constitution it is already in its Title VIII and in its Article 2, this country will enter into a path of much political calm, because you are constantly jealous of this. I am going to put two questions on the table. How have you helped against violence by going to Ceuta, a Spanish city that has gone through complicated moments? How have you helped? Nothing. What help are you in talking about violence when you deny violence against women in the murders of the past few days and deny the dignity of these murdered women? Aren't those Spanish patriots? Aren't they in Spain? [[Applauds]] These are the problems you have in accepting reality and diverse and democratic politics. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON MARIO CORTÉS CARBALLO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO COMPLETE WITH THEIR ECONOMIC COMMITMENTS WITH BRUSSELS? [[File number 180/00555]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u46	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Mario Cortés Carballo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u47	Madam Vice-President, you have gone from defending as an official of the European Commission the values of union, economic progress and freedom to defending just the opposite within a government of lying trilers, hostages of independentists and failed communists. [[Rumors]] And, how will you want to return to your post - right, Mrs. Calviño?-, you are suffering from loneliness and misunderstanding and, now that you have gone all the members of your ministry, you are more alone and more misunderstood still. In this context, tell us the truth: if you do not intend to comply with the economic commitments and reforms that the Commission requires, can you explain to us how they are going to be devised for Europe to give you the EUR 140 billion of the European Fund? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u48	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u49	Thank you, President. It is difficult to answer that question, because the truth is that I did not understand it at the end. [[Laughter]] What he had asked us was whether the Government intended to fulfil its commitments to the European institutions, and the answer is of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u50	Mr. Cortés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u51	I'll explain it to you. What is clear is that, far from looking like a serious government, you look like Pancho Villa's army. Mr Ábalos comes out saying that the tolls are not, that it was a joke; Mr Escriva, five days from extending the ERTE, only thinks of squeezing even more the autonomous; Mrs Rivera with each announcement makes the industry that remains in this country tremble; Mr Campo sinks even more the image of Spain speaking of pardons to beatings, and Mrs Montero does not tell him, between the blockade of SEPI's aid and the announcements of brutal tax increases is throwing a hand, but a hand at the neck, to achieve economic revival. But you don't stay too far behind, either. You see an error of more than 33% in growth forecasts. What would happen if a cashier, architect, surgeon or bus driver were wrong 33% in their work? He has already had to correct the deficit, the debt and even the impact of European funds, and we will see what happens to inflation. Mrs. Calviño, everything trusts the Recovery Plan, but in the background you know that with Moncloa's finger as the only criterion for choosing projects failure is guaranteed. Do you think that with this set of misconceptions you can take them seriously in Brussels? It is such a mess that the European Commission itself has said that it does not know whether the reform plan published by the Government is the same as it was sent to it; and it is no less so, because in the past plenary session, when Mrs Díaz was talking about repealing labour reform, you were turning around in your seat and taking one of those looks that kill you. What did he mean at the time? Now you have the chance. Are you going to repeal the labour reform or not? Because it's obvious that one of you is lying. Who's lying about you two? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u52	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u53	Thank you very much, President. This Government has for three years been developing a coherent economic policy based on three principles: fiscal responsibility, progressive structural reform policies and social justice. This coherent policy has given us great credibility and respect at international level by social partners in Spain, by international investors, by international institutions and by our European partners. I believe that you are very upset, because you are always boycotting the action of the Government and the image of our country, but the truth is that, despite your constant boycott, Spain is a country that is respected by all our partners. They also seem to be upset that we have achieved EUR 140 billion to try to get out of this crisis without comparison and very different from what we had in the financial crisis with the governments of the People's Party. This is the legacy that we met three years ago: structural unemployment, youth unemployment, a rate of precariousness and inequality in no way compared to other moments in our history. And these are the problems that we are going to try to solve in order to get out of this crisis, as I said, in a very different way from how we did it from the financial crisis. You should be well aware of the reform agenda of this Government. They are well aware that we want to address a set of reforms on the basis of social dialogue. I recommend that you read the Recovery Plan, because you are constantly issuing threats and judgments that do not correspond at all to the content of the plan. In short, what I believe, Your Honor, is that we have entered another stage from an economic point of view. Recovery's on the move. We have to make sure that this is not a temporary rebound, but a sustainable growth from an economic, environmental and social point of view. Let's see if your party is moving into a new phase as well and start thinking about the interests of all Spaniards and having a constructive attitude that allows us to build a better future for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PILAR CALVO GOMEZ, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MÍRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT MEASURES IS THIS GOVERNMENT GOING TO TAKE AFTER THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION'S INDICATION THAT THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN IS IMPOSED ON THE LIGHT MUCH FOR THE ENOUGH OF THE EUROPEAN MINIMUMS? [[File number 180/00545]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u54	Question addressed to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mrs Pilar Calvo Gómez of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u55	What measures will this government take after the European Commission has indicated that the Kingdom of Spain imposes light taxes well above European minimums? Madam Minister, when thousands of families do not arrive at the end of the month, when thousands of companies try to float out in the middle of the post-pandemic economic crisis and when the European Commission warns them that it is a matter of political will to stop being the country of the European Union that most expresses its citizens with the bill of light, you announce a new light rate. It is a tariff that does not reduce the cost of the invoice; the only thing that will reduce - and it is no joke - is the number of pages of the invoice, which will become only two. In addition, you place the cheapest fare at twelve o'clock in the evening, when most citizens try to rest but that, according to you, is a very good time to put the washing machine; because with the electric car, if you want to excuse it, the numbers still do not come out: almost 19 million households in Spain compared to about 70,000 electric cars. This policy of progressive night government and lobby government of day electrics is not understood in a context of reactivation of the economy. The European Commission has made it clear that the taxes we pay, the highest in Europe, could be much lower if the government wanted to. There is nothing to prevent them from going down as they have done, for example, Portugal. The Commission itself warned last week, at the request of the MEP for Junts per Catalunya Toni Comín, that the Spanish excise duty on household electricity is far above the EU minimum under Directive 2019/944. In April and in what we take from May the price of basic energy, both for companies and for families, has been - attention - the highest in the history of the electric market despite the fact that the spring months are usually the most economical because they are of mild temperatures. We also support the most expensive toll structure in the European Union, which will lead to a loss of competitiveness of our companies - we insist - in a context of recovery from the crisis. In conclusion, Spain is the country of the European Union where citizens pay the most for energy, because no government has had the political will to stop drowning and expressing citizens. Let's see if they put on batteries, because charging batteries, as seen, is going to cost them more.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u56	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u57	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. With regard to taxation, it is true that European energy taxation was regulated in 1996 and is in the process of being reviewed, as is also the case in the Spanish case. This is a sensitive issue for domestic economies and industry, for the sustainability of the tax system and for the signals we want to give to society as a whole. That is why we would have liked to be able to talk about car taxation also in this overall context and not to make demagogic gifts, which are neither good for industry nor for consumers nor, by the way, for complying with European rules that require cars to emit no more than 95 grams, but here it seems that some parliamentary groups have decided to give up the registration to 145 grams. But, focusing on her question and on the kind answer that Commissioner Kadri Simson gave on 19 May 2021 - that is to say last week - she stressed that we need an integrated energy market in the European Union, that the overall design of the system is important, that for consumers it is best to boost the rapid penetration of renewable energy because it is the way in which the price of electricity falls and that, in the meantime, it praises the situation of Spain's National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan and asks us to strengthen efficiency and safeguards for consumers, which we are doing. We need energy at a reasonable and predictable price, which I believe is what moves your question. We need to ensure their accessibility for all, coverage in terms of energy poverty and work on electrification, maximum efficiency, maximum penetration of renewables and the functioning of the market, and that is where we are. We are getting a rapid penetration of renewables; we are looking for the exit of the most expensive technologies in a gradual and risk-free way, covering the people working in these areas; we are driving energy efficiency in all areas; we are driving electrification through the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, which will soon reach them and which will produce a reduction in the electricity bill by an average of 12 % over five years. We also want to work on the functioning of the market with a rapid penetration of other formulas, such as long-term hirings, or translate an important thing that is that gas and CO2, variables that do not depend on us, do not generate an increase in the price of all the...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Calvo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u59	I just want to say that when you talk about energy at a reasonable price, yes, but it is sustainable for families and businesses. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: WHAT DID THE GOVERNMENT DO AND THINK TO MAKE A FAMILY AND CONCILIATE IN SPAIN PRESENT TO BE AN IMPOSSIBLE MISSION? [[File number 180/00549]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u60	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García from the Citizen Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, what has the Government done and plans to do to make it impossible to form a family in Spain?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u62	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for your question, Your Honor. The creation of a family in Spain requires decent employment, housing and care policies. No Government has done so so far and this Government is taking care of itself. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u64	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u65	Thank you. 80% of Spaniards have fewer children than they would like and the Spaniards are the Europeans who we most delay motherhood and, yes, of course, it is a structural problem because for decades neither the PP government nor the PSOE government has been put to work. But what does it take, Minister, if with you in the government the data has gone to worse? In 2020, Spain was the country of the European Union where female unemployment grew the most and one of the countries where birth has sunk the most. You know why? Because their concerns and the concerns of the Spanish have nothing to do with them, they are separated by an abyss. Their concern is to say children and 'children', to report that the pink color oppresses or changes the name of the Institute of Women, but, as I say to her, the concern of the Spanish women is to have to delay motherhood because it is never a good time to interrupt your career - and then many women have to go to fertility treatments -, to have no one to leave your child when he or she is ill because he or she cannot go to day care, that feeling of constant guilt that we have not to be with our children or not dedicate ourselves to our career or not reach the end of the month. And what does the Sanchez government do? Eliminate the dependent child benefit or know-how at taxes to families. That's right, for their convicted coup partners they already have the pardon prepared, because for their partners they do work, their partners do have privileges. They care a bit about Spain and the Spanish. Sánchez is able to do and say anything to stay in Moncloa, even humiliate Spain and, above all, humiliate the millions of Catalans we had to suffer in the first person the blow of these gentlemen in 2017. But who pardons the Spanish families from the tax sablazos, those families who do, who work and who pay? You are the most expensive government in history, the most useful government in history - yes - for separatism and the most damaging government in history for the Spaniards. His record of advisors does not help the reconciliation of the lives of the Spaniards; we only know that he has helped the reconciliation of a Spanish family that we already know what it is. If you really want to help families, get out of that empty propaganda bubble, get the child benefit back, lower taxes - yes, lower taxes - on Spanish families and really boost modern employment and conciliation policies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u66	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, surely in the diagnosis we share many elements. In Spain it is difficult to form a family and more if it is a family made up of two mothers or a single mother. This has to do with the fact that rent prices are in the clouds, that right-wing policies have left a pay gap of 21% and high rates of temporaryity and precariousness, that their members of the People's Party in 2014 eliminated the right to assisted reproduction for lesbian women and women without a partner, or that public services have suffered a decade of cuts, and I would like to mention in particular the education from 0 to 3 years and the professionals working in it. Finally, what we are not going to agree with - and I think you are mistaken, Mrs Arrimadas - is that this government is committed to families in their diversity. That is why we are going to work for a family diversity law that will bring oars to the House before the end of this year. That is why we are going to regulate the price of rents and ask for your support for this measure. That is why we are going to repeal labour reform and, in the midst of a crisis and a health emergency like this, we have created a pioneering equal pay tool in Europe. That is why we are going to regain women's right to assisted reproduction, also for lesbian women and for women without a partner. That is why we have promoted equal and non-transferable permits, we are going to strengthen public services, we have already reversed the cuts in dependence on a decade of the People's Party and for the first time in Spain we have promoted the Plan Corresponsible with 200 million so that conciliation is a right and not a career of obstacles for women; conciliation is not only work-oriented, but as a feminist public policy. Women must be able to leave their children in a safe place not only to go to work, but also to seek employment or to rest if they need it. [[Applauds]] I would like to recall phone 900 19 10 10, which is a telephone call from the Women's Institute so that all women who need to know about care and conciliation resources and even gender discrimination can come to receive information about their rights. I am very aware that we owe a debt to women, to mothers in particular, but this Government is determined to save it and we are demonstrating it with facts and with quality public policies and feminists. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SANTAMARIA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: IS THE GOVERNMENT'S INTENTION TO INDULATE INDEPENDENT PRESSES CONCERNED BY THE DELIVERY OF 1 OCTOBER 2017? [[File number 180/00559]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u68	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Luis Santamaría Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u69	Minister, all the media in the last few days have agreed that you are going to betray the Spanish people by pardoning the prisoners of the trial. You yourself went out last Monday demanding a prudence and a naturalness that the Spaniards do not share and, as always, went out after Mr Sánchez to fire you. As the journalist Vicente Vallés summed up very well yesterday, for Sánchez pardoning means concord and serving sentence means revenge and revenge. With his statements, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sánchez did not realize that he was putting the Government of Spain outside the law and outside the rule of law. Therefore, we ask you: when have you decided to pardon the prisoners convicted of the trial? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u70	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Santamaría, I wonder about the intention of the Government and I say to you that the intention of this minister is to wait for the reports of the Supreme Court to arrive; when they arrive, to analyze them one by one; with their result to bring a proposal to the Council of Ministers, and then to tell you what we have decided. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u72	Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u73	Minister, both you and the President of the Government are disrespecting the Spaniards with the answer you have just given me. You must think that the Spanish people are not a mature people who should know the truth. You must mistakenly think that we are a people of infants who have no right to know the truth, and nothing further from reality. Minister, the Spanish people are respected by going ahead with the truth and the truth is that you are about to commit a felony. To pardon the prisoners of the trial is a betrayal of the Spanish people. Betrayal is to put Mr. Sánchez's interests ahead of the best interests of the unity of the Spanish nation in article 2 of the Constitution that you swore or promised to keep and keep. Betrayal is to use the right of grace for political purposes. Betrayal is to rule with your hands tied behind your back granting pardons and bringing prisoners in exchange not for a handful of dollars, but for a handful of votes. Treason is to rule with those who aspire to end the unity of the Spanish nation. Minister, pardoning the report against the Supreme Court and against the prosecutor's criterion is to get out of the law. You know that the conditions for that pardon are not given, the reasons for justice on which it must be based are not given, the reasons for fairness are not given, it is not subject to the general interest as required by law and, of course, there is no repentance, because they have already stated that they will return to the steps. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the Spanish people will soon, with their votes, pardon us for the condemnation that it means to put up with Mr Sánchez at the head of the Spanish Government. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u74	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santamaría, yesterday I answered your colleague, Senator Ayala, on this very issue. I see that this preventive action on the control of the Government's action is very busy for them. On the one hand, they worry and criticize in a legitimate confrontation with the Government a project by 2050, however, they are now ahead of the future. Let's get the ball down to the playground, ladies and gentlemen. You do lack respect, because you lack respect for the law, the procedures, the Supreme Court and - I will allow it - your own comrades and the citizenry. You lack respect for the law because you don't care about the law. The Pardon Act of 1870 - which gives you a record of those who make you - establishes from article 23 a procedure and you are asking me for control of the Government over a procedural phase that we have not yet reached. You lack respect for the Supreme Court saying you're going to say no. Maybe he says no, or no, because I don't know, I haven't received any reports yet to the Ministry of Justice, which is the procedure that sets the law. In the event of a request for pardon, the sentencing court shall be heard. It collects prior reports from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the injured and prison institutions and, with this mixture, makes a report and forwards it to the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry submits to the Council of Ministers a proposal for refusal or admission, which may be total or partial. That's what the law makes and you would do well to respect it, because it would do us much better. When I speak of naturalization - keep reading my intervention - it is because it is a legal figure that is in the law and that law is what I respect. What I would like is for you also to respect it and facilitate the renewal of the Council of the Judiciary or the Constitutional Court, because you use the laws to your liking. That's no respect. What I'm asking you to do is do something useful for the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MIGUEL ANGEL CASTELLON RUBIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DOING: WHY DID YOU TALK REITERLY TO THE TRUTH THAT YOU WOULD NOT SUBJECT TAXES TO THE MEDIA CLASSES? [[File number 180/00557]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u76	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Castellón Rubio of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u77	Minister, last summer the president of the government told us that it was inevitable to undertake a tax reform and lied. He lied because you already had it prepared even before the crisis. From that very seat you told us that you were not going to raise taxes either to the middle classes or to the working classes. However, you have committed yourself to Brussels to increase the tax burden, which you and your partners amount to EUR 80 billion. Furthermore, today the Minister of Equality has also said that they will repeal the labour reform. Have you lied to Europe in the Recovery Plan or have you lied to the Spaniards in this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u78	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I believe that, in the eyes of all citizens, the only political formation that bases its action on lies, false news and defamation is precisely the People's Party. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, they do so in fiscal policy, when we must all pursue the constitutional principle of fiscal justice. But you are not interested in the public and what you are in a campaign of delegitimization of the entire tax system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u80	Mr. Castellón.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u81	Mrs Montero, you are missing the truth every time you say that Spain pays 8% less taxes than the rest of our European partners, because you hide that we are the fourth country in the European Union that makes the most tax effort based on the income we receive. While you convince us today that it is inevitable to pay taxes to sustain the welfare state, you are unable to give up spending not one of the 280 million euros that will cost us the Moncloa team of advisors. That is, the welfare state, but the welfare of Pedro Sánchez's friends. Mrs Montero, if you are only going to raise taxes to the rich, why don't you explain to us who is going to bear the new tax on insurance premiums, the diesel tax, the new tax on using the car, the one that's going to put the car to use the roads, the new plastic tax on packaging, the tax on refreshing drinks, the one that you're going to put on the air conditioner or the one that's going to put us to take the garbage out and then take it to a dump? Minister, you missed putting a tax on the air that we breathe, although, seeing how receptive you are, I better not give you ideas. They do not want to protect the environment, nor do they want us to be happy contributors in 2050. These are the alibis of their fiscal agenda, where there is only room to embrace businesses and families but not to reduce the spending of a chaotic government that has lied with its pacts, lied with pardons and lied with taxes. It is a government that lies to everyone and lies all the time. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u82	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. You continue in that campaign of delegitimization of taxation and, therefore, delegitimization of the public with a policy of cuts over and over announced by the People's Party. Your Honor, there is an expert general consensus that with our country's tax system the middle class and the working class pay proportionally more taxes than large incomes and small and medium-sized enterprises pay proportionally more taxes than large corporations. Doesn't it seem to you that it is fiscal justice to correct these imbalances so that those with the most capacity contribute more to the tax system? Or are you going to continue with that defense of tax cuts, defending as always big capitals, big incomes and big corporations to the detriment of retail business, to the detriment of a neighborhood's merchandise or to the detriment of traditional trade, which are seriously affected by the new areas of activity where taxation is benefiting large platforms and large corporations, which escape from a taxation that religiously pays each of the self-employed and each of the small and medium-sized enterprises? Therefore, Your Honor, this is tax justice. It seems a lie that you, when you talk about reducing public spending, go to the topics, because the governments in which you have been have been characterized precisely by what you criticize. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us be serious, let us have an honest and honest tax debate and explain to the citizens that, in order for a society to be fair, taxation must also be fair. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT EMERGENCY MEASURES WILL THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TAKE TO GUARANTEE THE SAFETY OF THE BORDER IN CITY AND BEAUTIFUL AFTER YOU ANNOUNCED MARRUCS WHO SUSTAIN POLITICAL COOPERATION WITH SPAIN? [[File number 180/00552]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u84	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what urgent measures are you going to take to strengthen border security in Ceuta and Melilla?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u86	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. With regard to the question you are asking about security measures in the face of a supposed suspension of police cooperation with the Kingdom of Morocco, I must say that there is no suspension of police cooperation, with which the measures remain of work and firmness, cooperation and collaboration. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u88	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, the courage with which you lie to this House is in vain. You say that such cooperation has not been suspended, when Morocco has officially declared that it suspends such cooperation not only in the police but also in the area of counter-terrorism! Look, his incompetence and the abandonment of this government have surrendered the southern border in the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, and the most vile manifestation of all this took place on Tuesday last week in the full session of the Council of Ministers. When Morocco had already launched its invasion of Ceuta, when Morocco had officially declared what you today with an unusual boldness have denied here - i.e. that you were suspending your police cooperation with Spain - and when thousands of people were locked up in your house, you proposed to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers approved the handing over of 30 million euros to Morocco to finance the Moroccan deployment in the fight against illegal immigration. 30 million euros that were added to the 60 that have already been delivered since 2019. Look, we've seen the result. And while you were delivering a miserable bag of food to the security forces, who at the same time were heroicly defending the border of El Tarajal and saving lives. That is, the contrast that portrays the miserable policy of this Government. So, Minister, instead of coming to tell lies to this House, assume reality, effectively strengthen the border in Ceuta and Melilla, assume that Morocco is now playing a threat and stop making a dog, because the defence of the Spanish territorial integrity does not deserve to be in the hands of a claudicating government like this, a weak, useless, cowardly and mindless government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u90	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I'm sure by next Wednesday you'll find some other qualification for this government. [[Laughter]] I'm surprised that with the number of years you've been here - now forty - you still don't know what a control session is for. [[Applauds]] It's no good to get rid of. Think, because I'll tell you that the control session is for someone to answer something you don't know, and it's clear you don't know. I will tell you that the Spanish State Security Forces and Corpses, the Police and the Civil Guard, together with the Royal Moroccan police force, have been cooperating for many years, collaborating to generate security in the fight against terrorism, against the criminal organization, counter-attacks trafficking with human beings, cooperation that follows and that has not been suspended for what I say. You come to ask me with a teletype in your hand, with the ticks of those far-right media that you serve as BOE. [[Protests.-Mr. Gil Lazarus shows a document]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u92	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u93	It hasn't been suspended. Expand your sources of information. Last week we faced an exceptional and extraordinary situation, to which we have responded with firmness, protecting our borders and our democratic values, from which you are extramural. We have done so in a timely, coordinated and effective manner thanks to the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Armed Forces and all the civil organizations working on the front line of the reception. And what have you, your parliamentary group, done, obviously helped by the People's Party? They always take advantage of any situation, a pandemic situation, an economic crisis, a crisis on our borders in Ceuta and Melilla, for what? To try to wear down the government in a way that is absolutely alien to what are state parties. They even harass with their media a volunteer like Red Cross, Luna, who had to suffer harassment simply by defending values, values that make us all better. Mr. Gil Lazarus, that's enough! [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u94	Quiet, please. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA CARVALHO DANTAS, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GABRIEL RUFIÁN ROMERO, OF THE REPUBLICAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS ON THE BORDER? [[File number 180/00548]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u95	Question by María Carvalho Dantas, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u96	Good morning, Minister. Do you consider that the Government respects human rights at borders? Please take three very important points into account in answering this question. First, whether the rights of migrant minors are respected. Secondly, whether there has been State violence. And thirdly, whether asylum rules are fully complied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u97	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho Dantas. Since this crisis, this extraordinary and exceptional crisis, has taken place, the Government has worked on two fundamental lines. First, to take the precise means, the precise measures to protect our borders with the reinforcement of more than 4,000 troops between the National Police and the Civil Guard. On the other hand, the mechanisms for the immediate return of those in an irregular situation who do not have the right to international protection, but also, of course, to protect vulnerable groups and minors and all persons eligible for international protection. Our action in this compendium, as a whole, must call it rapid, coordinated, effective and also decisive, but always in defence of our borders and democratic values and the fundamental rights of all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u99	Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. I have asked you to consider the three points that are sufficient to be observed in relation to minors and the regulations of migrant minors. It is clear that with the number and type of displaced personnel there has been no age check: it is impossible, it has not been carried out and there has also not been an intervention by the Office of the Attorney-General for Minors and other institutions. Minister, you know very well that there is no procedure for the deportation of minors. That there has been violence against migrants is not said by the Republican Parliamentary Group, Amnesty International says: - I open quotes - 'The Spanish Security Forces and the Army have inflicted violence against people, among whom there were teenagers, even throwing some into the sea'. Amnesty International says: yes, there has been violence, there are even many videos that prove it. Asylum regulations have not been complied with. No, no, It's a fact, Minister. Collective, forced returns have been carried out, without any safeguard or possibility of identification of vulnerable persons, they have not been assured legal information, interpreter, etc. People have not been able to apply for asylum. By the way, you promised to repeal the Mordaza Law and only extend the process of amendments, why do you do it? To make up the hot returns with the famous rejection at the border. And Canaries, Minister, is a second Lesbos. As all this happens, the monarchies, the two most beautiful, fraternize in everything but to help people. Minister, I would like you to tell me objectively whether the rights of migrant minors who have been returned hotly to the southern border of Spain in Ceuta have been fulfilled. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u101	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Carvalho, of course the fundamental rights of minors and the elderly have been protected and continue to be protected. But what happened in Ceuta and Melilla, mainly in Ceuta last week, is not simply a migration crisis, because it has required exceptional actions. Firstly, to avoid endangering the lives of those who were trying to enter our country irregularly; secondly, to protect the integrity of our borders and also to proceed, as I say to you, to the immediate return of those who are in an irregular situation. I have you as a person who is clearly true to your commitment to human rights, and I think you have a specific social sensitivity. That is why, and in spite of your speech, Your Honor, I am sure that everyone in this House, except the VOX Parliamentary Group, obviously we recognize ourselves, for example, in that image that I am not going to exhibit, but that you will remember, of the Civil Guard dive saving a child. This is what the work of our State Security Forces and Corpses and our Armed Forces and all organizations such as the Red Cross and other civil organizations represents: always in defence of human rights, freedoms, starting with the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Armed Forces, and in collaboration and cooperation with civil organizations such as the Red Cross. Your Honor, you saw them all working there together, didn't you? Why did you see them in El Tarajal? Because they defended borders and fundamental rights. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u103	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA ORAMAS GONZALEZ-MORO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN HAVE ANY MEASURES UNDERTAKING TO ESTABLISH PUBLIC EMPLOYEES OF THE AUTOMOUS CANARY COMMUNITY IN THE SITUATION OF LABOR PRECARIED? [[File number 180/00544]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u104	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service, by Mrs Ana María Oramas González-Moro, of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, there are hundreds of thousands of people in our country who suffer from abuses of temporary recruitment by public administrations. The Autonomous Administration of the Canary Islands has about 30,000 employees in precariousness and instability in the performance of its functions, and there is a similar number in the rest of the local canarian administrations. Public obligations to workers have been breached and situations of continuous labour harassment have been practised. We are talking about public workers who have been chaining successive temporary contracts for decades. We talk about doctors, nurses, teachers, technicians, children's dining staff, auxiliaries, who have been fundamental in this pandemic time. And I tell you more, Minister, 70% of these precarious workers are women, who in many cases have been working irregularly in public services for up to twenty years; what is allowed to be done with absolute impunity to the Administration would not be allowed to any private company in this country. The Community legislation is very clear, it prohibits the abuse of the successive temporary recruitment of public personnel, which occurs when it is intended for temporary public employees to meet needs which, in fact, are neither provisional nor timely. We believe that the time has come to offer a definitive solution, which is to offer you a guaranteed stay in your jobs at term, that is to say, until the end of your working life. A final law is needed along the lines of the solution proposed by the already well-known report by Mrs Emilia Casas, an express representative of the Constitutional Court, turning these employees into fixed personnel to extinguish, a solution of justice for so many thousands of people affected. The Community of the Canary Islands began negotiations with the staff of these islands in fraud of law, negotiations which, apparently, were interrupted by instructions from its ministry. My question, Minister, is it very clear that this government is going to provide a solution for the whole state or it is the autonomous communities that have to legislate to get out of an unacceptable situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u106	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u107	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. I have stated this on behalf of the Government on several occasions, both in Congress and in the Senate: our objective is to place the rate of temporality below 8% in the horizon of 2024, a commitment that we make in the framework of social dialogue, in negotiation with the unions, in coordination with all the autonomous communities and with the local entities. Therefore, Your Honor, in the Canary Islands the same stabilization processes will be carried out on the same terms as in the rest of Spain, from the respect for the Constitution which states that access to public service must be governed by the principles of equality, merit and capacity, and also from the maximum respect for the experience accumulated by thousands and thousands of public workers who are in a situation of interinity. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u108	Mrs. Oramas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u109	What I ask you, Minister, is whether you are going to solve the hundreds of thousands that are already in that abuse. The final issue for the future can be discussed, and we will, as it was yesterday in the media. Will you continue to prevent an agreement of the autonomous community with temporary workers?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u110	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u111	Let me ask your question and your tone to defend the idea that the Public Service must be regulated with the same criteria for the whole of Spain, throughout the State; that is the function of this ministry and will exercise it. But I am going to go a little further than your question was: this government is committed to stabilizing 300,000 people on the horizon of the year 2024. But you want us to talk about the Canary Islands, absolutely right. Canary Islands is the autonomous community that has the highest percentage of interim staff, and I must say that this is not from yesterday, it comes from quite a long time, and therefore your lordship, which is part of a government party, which has ruled in the Canary Islands, something must know about it. I must say - and let no one think that I am looking for excuses - that the temporality in the General Administration of the State is 7.73%; in the local entities of 13.10 and in the autonomous communities of 37.90, the Canary Islands being the one that has a higher percentage. So what we are going to do is help the unions, the autonomous communities, the local entities to find the best solution to this problem. In the Canary Islands there are 30,744 people, and you will tell me how I know it so accurately, because it is the data provided by the Government of the Canary Islands. And I want to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Finance for her sensitivity, which will allow us with a flexible use of the rate of... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u112	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u113	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the state of our foreign policy. For your defence, Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u114	Thank you very much, President. Before we begin the intervention, I would like to thank the State Security Forces, NGOs and volunteers for their example of service and delivery. I would like to express my condolences to the family of the young Moroccan who died in the port of Ceuta, as well as to pay tribute to President Vivas and to all the Ceuties for their magnificent performance, which has been a pride for Spain. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem that we use the use of irony when we present here today an inquiry into the state of our foreign policy, because the answer is obvious: our foreign policy is going through one of the worst moments in its history, and this parliamentary group takes with a great sense of state its responsibility to demand, control and denounce the government in the mistakes it makes. There have been many occasions when this group warned them that the image of Spain abroad was being damaged by its lack of credibility and weight; without going any further in October last year with an inquiry here. It was not whim, minister, or desire to wear down the government, but to serve Spain. Today he is seeing it, mistakes have consequences and sometimes very serious consequences. Therefore, before I come up here, confusing criticism with disloyalty, I ask you to understand this interpellation as an opportunity to definitely make an act of humility and rectify. It is true that foreign policy is a faithful reflection of internal policy, and if anything characterizes this Government, it is its inability to present a serious, credible and coherent political project. How is it explained if not that Minister Robles said last week that the territorial integrity of Spain is unnegotiable, when you are raising a pardon, if not an amnesty, for those who have committed a sedition crime and tried to break the unity of Spain? Of course, territorial integrity is unnegotiable, and that is precisely what this parliamentary group asked of you in the negotiation of the Brexit on Gibraltar: firmness in defending our interests. And what happened? That you held a bilateral meeting with Gibraltar and raised your mayor to a status that is not yours, no more or less than the interlocutor of the Government of Spain. There is no direction or coherence, rather than rule, rather than dealing with solutions to the real problems of Spain of the twenty-first century, the Spain of 2021, which is where we live, you have decided to tell future solutions, decisions that you will take others and have decided that everything is the same, but that it does not seem the same; in your case, changing work for activity and foreign policy for international relations. That is why, despite its insistence on making a unilateral foreign policy strategy in which it obviated the geographical location of Spain, and therefore its interests and threats, I reiterate that Spain has three fundamental axes in its foreign policy: the European Union, the transatlantic relationship with the United States and Latin America and the North of Africa and the Mediterranean. Well, Minister, this government has managed to leave these three axes untouched, if not sunk. The European Union has tried to use it as an alibi for its most controversial or unpopular occurrences, with Brussels demanding measures such as charging road tolls or raising the VAT on masks. They carried, a few weeks ago, a reconstruction plan in which the second vice-president assured them that they would not repeal labour reform while the third vice-president promised that she would. It is not surprising, then, that the Community institutions are asking themselves the same question as more and more Spaniards are asking themselves: what are we left with? Who do we trust? Is there anything you say is true? They have squandered Spain's prestige in Europe and, which is almost worse, with this aimless and contradictory foreign policy they are going to end the just prestige that European integration has in Spain. This Government exercises weak diplomacy, which is unreliable, unable to project influence to defend constitutional interests and values. You have not been able to take forward Mrs Calviño's appointment as president of the Eurogroup, despite the fact that you were loyally supported by our group. Nor have they been able to draw the Duke's for the Space Agency and not even his own for the World Trade Organization. Yesterday, in the conclusions of the European Council, they were unable to mention Morocco, after what happened in Ceuta, when other governments did succeed in bringing convictions to Belarus or their concern for Mali. And it is that, minister, in order for things to go well, you have to work with a real strategy; yours we see that it has not served. You have to draw up a plan, because never the unexpected happens, but the unthought; so, stop thinking. The second axis of relations is the transatlantic link between the United States and Latin America. With regard to the United States, minister, it has been seven months, seven months, and there has not been a single high-level contact between President Sánchez and President Biden. It has been with France, with Germany, with Italy, with Canada, with Mexico, with Greece, with Chile or with South Africa, with thirty or more leaders from all over the world, but not with Spain, no matter how much Spain is in the G-20. Moreover, the United States still does not appoint an ambassador to Madrid, and the military agreement, one of the most important bilateral agreements within NATO, has been tacitly extended, without any interlocution and without the Spanish Government being able to highlight the strategic importance of building a relationship that responds to our interests. And then, what happens is: that joint military manoeuvres are made with Morocco in the waters of the Canary Islands and without prior warning our air traffic controllers - you will call it discreet diplomacy -. And I ask you, do you consider that something needs to be done to improve the relationship with the United States or will you continue to say - as you said yesterday with Morocco - that relations are excellent? With Latin America, with whom we unite historic, political, economic and affective ties unique in the world, we have become irrelevant. The lack of a Spanish political presence denotes the absence of weight. We have ceased to be their door to Europe, simply because in Europe we are neither a serious nor a reliable actor. Mexico decides not to invite us to the events of the bicentennial, and its answer is silence. Today, the continent is breaking up in a struggle between the extreme left-wing forces of Bolivia and the supporters of democracy and freedom, and we still do not know which side you are on. The liberal international order you say you want to preserve in the External Action Strategy is at stake today in Chile, Colombia, Peru. The most elementary human rights continue to be trampled on in Venezuela, Cuba, Nicaragua, and the President of the Government is content with a Latin American tour of Argentina and Costa Rica. Minister, you have turned your survival as a government into a whole less angering your partners in Podemos, the only reason for your foreign policy, and that is why you have had to renounce the main goal: the defense of our interests and the projection of our values abroad. And we arrived in North Africa and the Mediterranean, our relations with the southern neighbour: Morocco, head of the African continent, the external border of the European Union and one of the most unequal borders in the world. A theme, minister, par excellence important for anyone who takes charge of his portfolio. That is why I ask you: with such good experts and connoisseurs of the subject you have around you, have you not been able to anticipate it? I didn't have to listen anymore. This parliamentary group has asked him up to four times since December the reasons for the cancellation of the high-level meeting which should have taken place in December, at various times. The only reason you gave us here was that there was a pandemic, and while the Moroccan Government was meeting with Israel, the United States, France and some other countries. All this time we have asked you about the international closure of the borders without prior notice made by Morocco in Holy Week, even for that unilateral delimitation of the waters affecting those of the Canary Islands, and which you defended as a right of the Alawite Government. On that occasion his action was limited to maintaining contact with Rabat, waiting to know how he would propose finally fixing the border - how he would propose them -; it is still curious to read his words today. And here we have the result of this new way of doing foreign policy, which is active silence, the same one that President Sánchez used to explain how he did not negotiate or defend the European funds for Spain. The result of this combination of passivity and beginner's mistakes is a first-class diplomatic crisis with our main neighbour and strategic partner. The president of my party, Pablo Casado, has made it very clear that the Government has the full support of the Spanish People's Party in defending our national sovereignty and territorial integrity, both within and outside our borders. And I will tell you more; I believe that attending to a humanitarian reason is morally laudable, welcoming a seriously ill person is an act of humanity that is understandable and defendable. That is why I ask you: being this way, what prevented you from doing things right? Why didn't you manage the situation professionally? That is to say, informing Morocco and counting on this opposition. But after the Delcy scandal, minister, have you not yet realized that in open democracies, and despite the government's reluctance with transparency, things always end up knowing? What strange impulse prompts them all the time to deceive everyone permanently? Madam Minister, this deterioration in a strategic bilateral relationship was clearly avoidable. It is a consequence of his Government's international weakness for a foreign policy that does not deserve this name, aggravated by a succession of miseries that have increased Morocco's mistrust of Spain. It was a mistake for you to break the tradition that the first official trip of the President of the Government was to Rabat, it was a mistake that part of your Government will manifest itself in favor of a referendum of self-determination in the Sahara, and it was a mistake to introduce the leader of the Frente Polisario in Spain and register him in a hospital with false identity, all without informing Morocco beforehand, as you did on six previous occasions that we have known that Brahim Gali has travelled to Spain since you are at the head of the Government. Errors which, on the other hand, are well said, of course, do not at all justify a Moroccan reaction as disproportionate as it is inhuman, and to which you have our full support in responding with the firmness that the situation demands. [[Applauds]] Therefore, and knowing the good work and experience of our foreign service in North Africa, he asked, Minister: How do you conclude that it was a good idea to accept the entry into the Spanish territory of the leader of the Frente Polisario, with false documentation and without informing Morocco? Did you know that you were acting outside the criminal proceedings opened in Spain, that is, behind the back of our own judiciary?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u115	Mrs. Martinez, your time is up. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, on behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Your Honor, for giving me the opportunity to describe the state of our foreign policy. What the Government has done this year and a half can be described in very concrete terms: we have increased our international profile, we have vigorously defended our interests and values, we have improved the projection of our country. I will therefore describe to you what we have dealt with and what we have already achieved in foreign policy, which has been active in many areas. It is a policy of results, Your Honor, it is not a policy of hyperbole or blows to the chest, as you and your parliamentary group have us used to. I will talk to you about recent events, but I also want to talk to you about things that have not changed in recent weeks: they are the principles and values on which our external action is based. It has not changed the fact that it is aimed at defending our interests firmly, nor has it changed the fact that it is a multilateral Europeanist policy that devotes particular attention to the regions of the world that are particularly special to us, such as Latin America, Africa or the South Neighbourhood, nor has it changed the will of the Government, because that is the will of the Spanish citizens: that our foreign policy is solidarity. In the year in which we suffered the COVID-19 pandemic, a central chapter of our activity has been the European response to the health, economic and social crisis that COVID has entailed. The European Union has taken major economic decisions, creating a Recovery Fund and adopting a Next Generation programme. That, Your Honor, has not fallen from heaven. That, Your Honor, is the fruit of long hours of negotiation in the European institutions, and at the origin of this result are Spanish proposals, with which we will now be able to benefit from EUR 140 billion for our economy, for digital and environmental transformation. That's because we haven't been quiet or quiet, Your Honor. That is because we have made proposals and because we have worked to build consensus. And in this we would have liked, Your Honor, to have your support, and not the constant frenzy of your political group. Today our citizens see how mobility is restored and how the health crisis is beginning to overcome, and in that too, Your Honor, in the European Immunization Strategy, in the European digital vaccination certificate, we have also been there, the Spanish Government has been, and that is why tourism will be able to reactivate in the summer. Both Spain and Europe have been aware that the solution to the pandemic has to be solidarity with the weakest, and there, Your Honor, was also the Government of Spain, a founding member of Kovacs, and also mobilizing funding for all citizens in the world to have access to the vaccine. In addition, Your Honor, we have worked loyally and faithfully with the Community institutions to reach an agreement in Brexit, an agreement that represents the interests of our country. And also, ladies and gentlemen, in parallel, we have reached a principle of agreement with the United Kingdom on Gibraltar, which, when it comes into force and without renouncing Spanish sovereignty, puts an end to three hundred years of ignored claims on issues such as fair tax competition, environmental protection, police cooperation; all this, I insist, after three hundred years of great cacareos by your parliamentary group and never a solution. We have also made clear our position on the European Pact on Migration and Asylum, taking the initiative to strengthen its external dimension, working with countries of origin and transit, working together against irregular immigration, also working to open up regular channels for migration to Europe, defending a European consensus based on the principles of solidarity and responsibility. We have been present in all the priority regions for our interests. We have climbed the gap in our action to adapt to unprecedented circumstances working with Latin American countries, and there are, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the last Inter-American Summit: concrete measures to provide financing solutions to middle-income economies, as called for by our Latin American partners; working together to make available to Latin American countries seven and a half million vaccines, vaccines that they greatly appreciate, Your Honor, because they will also help them to fight the pandemic, and solutions to work together to combat climate change or to cooperate in education or talent mobility. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, ladies and gentlemen, we are very clear that the future of Europe and, therefore, that of Spain is linked to the future and prosperity of Africa and that is why we have launched the Focus Africa 2023 plan, with concrete measures to work together and to take advantage of the opportunities that are opening up on the continent; measures, of course, which are already being implemented. If there is one area in which we are beginning to be recognised, our international leadership is recognised in the field of feminist foreign policy. We are doing a feminist foreign policy, Your Honor, because we take the rights of women and girls seriously in Spain and outside Spain, and we would all do well to take it a little more seriously, it seems to me, given the current situation of exponential increase in violence against women. [[Applauds]] Mrs Martínez Ferro, the relationship with the United States is and will continue to be mature, solid and intense, and that is because it is a country with which we have no open conflict, but a long list of areas of cooperation and dialogue. That is already happening in the field of defence. We are allies and work together in NATO to fight terrorism where it is a threat, in the Sahel, in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in other areas, such as economic and trade, and also by working together on a transatlantic agenda, on which we are already working on issues such as thematic change or the prosecution. Mrs Martínez, another of the issues to which we have devoted our efforts at this time has been to lead those of the European Union in strengthening the Southern Neighbourhood, seeking to manage complex issues such as migration, climate change, youth employment and the transformation of energy systems from co-responsibility. To this end, we convened a conference in Spain in November last year for all the members of the European Union and of the South Neighbourhood, from which concrete initiatives emerged to strengthen cooperation between the two shores of the Mediterranean. Turning now to Morocco, Your Honor, I begin by saying something that I will not tire of repeating: Spain has neither sought nor desires a crisis that we have no interest in feeding and which we want to put an end to as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the governments of Spain to defend our country's interests, and in relations with Morocco to defend those interests we have been very successful in applying an approach based on dialogue and cooperation. We approach our neighbourhood by working in very sensitive sectors, such as security and migration. Morocco's progress is our progress because it results in our security in the broadest sense, and our progress is also the basis for Morocco's progress. Migration cooperation benefits Spain, it is true, but it is also clear that it benefits our southern neighbour. That is why we have for years worked out a series of coordination mechanisms, based on the trust between our security forces and the certainty of being mutually responsible. Together we have created a model that has become not only a sign of identity of the bilateral relationship, but also an axis of the relationship between Morocco and the European Union, which Spain contributes to boosting and feeding. The arrivals around the 17th of May in Ceuta and the terrible images of young people and children risking their lives at sea cannot leave anyone indifferent. I would like to pay tribute here to the State Security Forces and Bodies, to the Armed Forces and to non-governmental organizations for having saved so many human lives and for having done so diligently and humanely. And I repeat that they are facts that cannot leave anyone indifferent, they have caused dismay and rejection in the European Union. The support that Spain has received from the European Union and the Member States is important not only because of their solidarity, but also because of the obvious fact that the borders of the Member States, as in the case of Ceuta, are external borders of the European Union. Cooperation and respect, including, of course, respect for borders, is an essential pillar on which to build the Hispanic-Moroccan relationship as well. We offer respect and also ask our partners about it. We are aware of the rejection that provoked a Spanish decision that was totally devoid of political motivations, but the Government of Spain is fully open to dialogue and to look to the future. We have always firmly believed that Morocco is a partner country, a friendly country of Spain and that it must continue to be so. Your Honor, Averroes said that, to acquire his perfection, an individual needs the help of other people, and that idea of the twelfth century, taken from the common cultural legacy that we both have, I think it is very valid today to understand how much Spain and Morocco can gain by cooperating and also to understand how much we can both lose if we do not. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mrs Martínez Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u118	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, if we had any doubts about the work and the state of our foreign policy, you have made it clear to us in this speech. First of all, the People's Party has three hundred years of history! Secondly, none of the merits that have been cast here are his or this Government's merits, they are merits that others have. And you are the ones who have said that you have practiced active silence as a political form, it has not been the People's Party. My question was very clear, minister. If the decision you have made in Morocco is devoid of political motivation, what motivation did you have, in addition to humanitarian? Why didn't you inform the Moroccan Government? Who made that decision? Did you convene the Foreign Policy Council, which was set up to take informed decisions on sensitive matters? Did you consult the decision with experienced professionals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Did you check the decision with the National Intelligence Centre? Who did you consult the decision with? Minister, the situation in Spain is not to get out of the way. You say that in Latin America the success is that of an Ibero-American summit in which, like all merit, seven million vaccines have been given to seven hundred million people. Is there anything else you think you need to do in Latin America in the coming months, in the coming years, until the time of this legislature is over? What I ask of you, minister, is that you do your duty. The rest of us comply with ours. Stop seeing the straw in someone's eye. Take advantage of the opportunities we loyally offer you to build a credible foreign policy, a recognizable foreign policy, an effective and sensible foreign policy. Stop licking your wounds. It returns Spain to a role of international influence that it should never have abandoned. You started your journey as a minister saying: Spain is back, but today Spain is more ad back than ever. If you don't see that, the problem is you have it. This parliamentary group will continue to play the role entrusted to it by the Spanish, which is to control this government and ask it to fulfil its responsibility. We have no intention of wasting beyond what is necessary, but of forcing you to be accountable and to do so in the most transparent way possible, with a transparency that it is difficult for you to have, a transparency that you have not yet wanted to maintain here today. He has not been able to answer any of the specific questions that have been put to him by this parliamentary group. I ask you, Minister, in this new reply, to give us some of the reasons why we have reached an unprecedented diplomatic crisis in our country's history. Who decided that Mr. Ghali would arrive at Zaragoza Airport? Who decided he'd be admitted to a hospital in La Rioja? What is the plan - you, who have such a unique prospective capacity - that you have planned for the departure of Mr Brahim Ghali from Spain? What do you plan to do in the next few weeks, minister? You have a golden opportunity here today to answer specific questions. Don't tell us what the European Union is going to get us out of here. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Martínez Ferro, I have described to you the great axes on which the Government is working on external action, which is what really interests our citizens. If we want to focus our country's opposition on these issues, I am convinced that we will be able to meet. Let me repeat that this crisis has arisen from an act that has no political connotations that we neither seek nor want to feed. I believe that we agree that foreign policy in general, and in particular with regard to a strategic partner such as Morocco, must be a State policy. Our interests are at stake and the Government hopes to be able to count on the loyalty of its party and of all those represented here, the loyalty that the Socialist Party offered when it was in opposition to its party and had to manage crises in external action, which were not few; loyalty, Your Honor, loyalty to promote the image of Spain in the world, which is strong, despite the doubts that you regularly sow - less bad than the statistics regularly deny - loyalty to defend the interests of our country, which seems to you to forget. How I would have liked your honor to have had a moment of gratitude for the generosity of our country by sharing vaccines, vaccines so difficult to get right now. How much I would have liked your honor to have had the same answer that Latin American countries have. Of course, seven and a half million vaccines are not going to solve the pandemic problem in Latin America, but have a little respect for Spanish citizens who have wanted to share those vaccines with Latin American citizens. [[Applauds]] Don't come crying, saying there are few. Thank you for the generosity of the Spanish citizen if you do not want to thank the generosity of the Government of Spain. I ask you and your parliamentary group, Your Honor, to stop destroying the image and action of our Government, of our country in the world, and to contribute with concrete proposals, with concrete ideas to improve not only the external image of Spain, which is strong, but also the action of our country abroad. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER FOR TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA, ON THE MEASURES TO ENCOURAGE THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN TO FACILITATE ACCESS TO THE LIVING OF YOUTH. [[File number 172/000112]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u122	We turn to the following item on the agenda: urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda on the measures that the Government of Spain intends to promote to facilitate access to housing for young people. For your defence, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u123	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to talk in this debate about a group that we often do not pay too much attention to. We remember them when there are elections, at that time we do, and, moreover, when we present a concrete measure for these people, we announce it from the top: We have a proposal for young people. But much I fear, ladies and gentlemen, much I fear, Minister, that our young people need more than that, our young people deserve more than that. Our young people deserve comprehensive policies, policies that allow them to begin their personal journey, to begin their work journey; policies that allow them to begin their development within society, knowing that their representatives are with them at that first stage of the journey. And, minister, now they need it more than ever. Spanish youth are one of the groups most affected by the economic and social crisis caused by the COVID-19. We must act urgently to ensure that this crisis does not further deepen the problems that our young people have, ladies and gentlemen, problems that were already in our country before this crisis but that, if we do not solve them, they will become structural problems. Young people during their formative stage suffer the consequences of forty years of reforms and counter-reforms of education that the Socialist Party and the People's Party have carried out in the field of education, although at no time have they treated education as a matter of State. These consequences have clearly been suffered in the educational field by all those who have been involved in school failure, but also those who have studied and completed their compulsory vocational training studies and those who have entered university, because, ladies and gentlemen, we forget that these people put all their efforts to form themselves, to enter the labour market and to contribute their talent to our society within their field, and what we have done has been to turn their backs on them. These people, when they finished their training, were faced with a labour market that did not have them, with huge barriers. The distance that separated the classrooms from the companies was and remains too great. In the end, when these people get into the labour market, they face a precariousness to their maximum degree, and we tell them to persevere, which is what they have to deal with. But, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to do that. It is up to them to bring ideas, bring talent, bring strength, desire, and not to find wages that do not let them leave their parents' house. When young people enter the labour market, they cannot even leave their parents' home, nor can they become independent. And, in the end, this translates into a decline in birth, which comes later and later, with the risks that this poses to mothers and also to children born when mothers are quite older. Therefore, we see that a situation or a circle is established that prevents the full development of our young people. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen? If we do nothing to avoid it, those children who are born with these kinds of problems will face the same problem that their parents have had, and, of course, Mr Ábalos, this is not what our young people deserve. Let me put figures to this presentation, because it is important to be clear what the context is with data on the situation of young people in Spain. The unemployment rate among people under the age of 25 is 37.7%, 20 points higher than the average in the European Union countries. We are also talking about precariousness, and almost half of the young people have a temporary contract. If we talk about emancipation, currently only 4.9% of children under 25 live outside the family home; ten years ago this figure was double. We are talking about housing, and we have to bear in mind that young Spaniards have to pay 85% of their wages to pay rent. And if we talk about birth, we are the second country in the European Union with the lowest birth rate. This is the reality, minister, and it seems that although the figures emit alarm signals and are asking us for an SOS clearly, we are doing nothing to resolve it. Since the government has been talking about 2050 Spain, Mr Ábalos. It seems very good to us to talk about the challenges of the future, to have a purposeful vision and to improve the situation for future generations, but let me tell you that in order for the Spaniards to reach 2050, we must first deal with the problems of 2021 and, in particular, with the young people of 2021, because they will be the ones who will take us to that Spain of 2050. And since today we are going to talk about a specific focus, housing, because it is impossible to address the exposure of all the subjects affecting young people in this inquiry, in this matter it is very clear that the current situation comes from a disastrous housing policy on the part of the public administration. There have been no serious and effective housing policies in our country, and that is why we face a great deficit in the exercise of the fundamental right to housing. It follows that the public authorities have not invested enough to expand the public housing park. According to the latest data available through the study prepared by the Banco de España on the crisis of COVID-19 and its impact on the economic conditions of young generations, between 2014 and 2017 the rise in rental prices absorbed a high percentage of the income of young households. According to the results of the Banco de España in relation to the latter question, almost 40% of the households that rented a house allocate 30% of their total income for this purpose. We are above countries like Germany or Italy. This situation should be inconceivable in a country with a youth unemployment rate of about 40% and a temporary rate of over 67%. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the government agreement signed by the PSOE and the United States We may have included a series of measures to guarantee the right to enjoy decent housing, but it turns out that the government has been paralysing any kind of forceful measure to address this challenge for lack of consensus, understanding between coalition parties for months. Mr Ábalos, the young people of our country cannot wait any longer for the Spanish Government to resolve their internal disagreements and take urgent steps to begin to resolve this situation. Citizens have already said on numerous occasions that we do not agree to limit rental prices, which is an insufficient and negative measure as a tool in those countries where it has been launched. We are radically against it, but that does not mean that we stop working. That's why we build and propose alternatives. In Citizens we reach out to the Government, Mr Ábalos, and we tell you that if you really want to help young people to emancipate, you must increase the supply of public housing under rental, you must enhance public-private collaboration and you must increase the guarantees of collection and the integrity of the property to tenants. Ladies and gentlemen, we must reorient the public housing policies promoted so far through the State Housing Plan. As I said, it is urgent to initiate public policies to increase the number of public rental housing. In addition, we must give priority to the construction of these types of buildings in comparison with those for sale and we must also develop public-private collaboration mechanisms that offer the tenants guarantees of collection, among other benefits, in exchange for affordable rents for those citizens who face the greatest difficulties in accessing housing. Unfortunately, Mr Ábalos, the current State Housing Plan does not present ambitious measures in this area. The provision in the youth aid programme is articulated by means of economic transfers to low-income tenants under the age of thirty-five, but studies indicate that these types of policies result in higher prices, so tenants do not end up receiving direct aid. Minister, I ask you to explain to us what measures you intend to take from the Executive to facilitate young people's access to housing, what measures you intend to take from the Executive to make it easier for young people belonging to vulnerable groups to have guaranteed access to housing. As I have told you, this is not the only problem young people have today, but one of the most important. Citizens have already proposed a course of action and we want to know what path they intend to take, whether to address the problems of youth courageously or to follow the path of populism and inefficiency. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u125	Thank you, President, and very good morning. Thank you, Mrs Giménez, for allowing us to bring this problem to the House and, at the same time, for the tone used and the analysis you have made. I have to say at the outset that we fully share the diagnosis - I have nothing to add - and I will even tell you something else. We also agree with the proposals you have put forward and I hope that, throughout my breakdown of action, you will be able to identify yourself with some of the measures we have put forward. I just want to make one point, and it is that, beyond discriminating if there is understanding not among the coalition partners, I can assure you that the debate is confined exclusively to the state housing bill, which does not undermine the housing policies that we are developing and that I am going to try to relate right now. Indeed, as you say, there was no housing policy. When we arrived at the government in 2018, we find ourselves in a complex context that hinders the constitutional mandate to offer decent housing to the Spaniards. On the one hand, because the social housing park was very scarce. On the other hand, because there was a clear upward trend in rental prices, largely explained by the shorter term of leases, which allowed owners to increase prices on a recurring basis, breaking with the long-awaited stability that is desired in a home. For this reason, since 2018 one of the Government's main priorities has been housing, in particular the rental housing market, which is precisely where the greatest difficulties are concentrated and where the demand for the youngest is also concentrated. Within the State's competitive framework, we carry out a number of initiatives aimed at complementing the housing policies that each autonomous administration must carry out, because, as you know, its management is a competence developed by the autonomous communities. To this end, from the very beginning, we adopted various measures that required urgency, also others that came after and that had to do with the coronavirus pandemic, in which we had to create an indispensable framework to improve the situation of the most vulnerable, both economically and socially. We have made this new housing policy in the rental market, largely aimed at young people, with very clear criteria that are the following. Firstly, the increase in supply. For this reason we are promoting the Affordable Rent Housing Plan through two lines of action with the aim of increasing the social and affordable rental housing park by 100,000. With this Plan, young people will have more opportunities to access rented housing. One of the lines of action to get these 100,000 homes is through the implementation of a public housing park, reaching up to 44,000 rented homes at affordable or social prices for people or living units with limited income including, of course, young people. This park is developed directly by the State with its own resources, from European funds, or arranged with the autonomous communities and local entities. The second line to reach these 100,000 is through a social housing fund that will reach up to 56 000 housing units. This would be the line you underlined of private public collaboration, because we have increased the fund with financial institutions up to 11,000 homes. A cooperation protocol with Sareb has been signed with 15,000 housing units and is being negotiated with rental housing managers to move up to 30,000 housing units for social or affordable rent. We have also worked on incentives for the market to rent more housing. The second package is aimed at improving stability. These include, as a structural measure, the extension of the period of leases from three to five years and, on a short-term basis, those that we have had to take as a result of the health crisis, which are the extraordinary extension of customary housing leases, the suspension of the eviction procedure and launches for vulnerable households without housing alternatives, and the extension of the criteria for situations of social and economic vulnerability in line with the crisis of COVID-19, which extends the ban on eviction to certain vulnerable persons, even when there are no leases for large tenants who have empty housing. Thirdly, we have a number of measures aimed at alleviating or reducing the financial burden. Among the structural measures we have within the State Housing Plan the programme of rent aid for young people with aid of up to 600 euros per month or 900 euros per month in certain areas that the autonomous communities establish, and also measures to reduce the requirements of leases. Among the measures implemented in the context of the pandemic, we can mention the approval of a procedure to establish cancellations or moratoriums in the lease debt, which is automatically applied in the case of large holders, and the creation of a specific ICO guarantee line to deal with the payment of rents - a 100 per cent loan endorsed by the State, of up to six monthly instalments with a maximum of EUR 900 per month and with a repayment period of up to six years -. Yesterday the extension for this application, which must be requested before 9 August, was published in the Official Gazette of the State and the formation of the approved loan until 9 September. The fourth package consists of measures aimed at improving the quality of housing. With this we talk about investment in rehabilitation, both accessibility and conservation, as well as energy rehabilitation and combating energy poverty. Thus, within the framework of the State Housing Plan we would have aid programmes for the rehabilitation of buildings and housing, ranging from 3000 euros to 12,000 euros of housing aid, and to this we would have to add what is provided for in the Recovery and Resilience Plan to which I will refer later. Finally, the fifth set of improvements would be to improve neighbourhoods, regeneration and urban renewal. Within the State Housing Plan we have the Urban Regeneration and Renovation Programme so that housing or buildings in a demarcated area can access grants of up to 12,000 euros per dwelling or even 30,000 euros if it is newly built. Also in this block we have measures within the recovery plan, but we have not only focused on the rental market, we have also taken into account the purchase of housing for young people. Thus, we have updated the State Housing Plan 2018-2021, the previous one to this government, to extend the aid of 10800 euros to young people for the purchase of housing in the cores, which do not populations, of less than 5000 inhabitants. This extension continues to have effect until the completion of the 2018-2021 state plan. In addition, we are developing the preliminary draft law on the right to housing, which is already at a very advanced stage, with which we cover another important vacuum. Within housing policies, we not only want to establish the basic conditions that guarantee equality in the exercise of this constitutional right to access to decent and affordable housing for young people, but also to regulate a number of measures and improvements in this area. To this end, we are working on the incorporation of tax measures so that the option of access to affordable rental housing for young people can be increased. For this purpose, when the monthly rent is limited and whoever rents a young person between eighteen and thirty-five years of age, the tax reduction will be increased by 70%. Finally, I cannot fail to mention the increase that this Government has made in the housing budget, as well as the amount of component 2 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to boost housing policy. Without going any further this year, because of the importance we attach to it, we have made a budgetary effort which is made concrete by an increase of 373 % over the budget we had. Thus, we allocated to Urban Agenda and housing for this year 2250 million, an increase of 1775. In short, figures that offer us the greatest budget in history in this area. With regard to component 2, it implies the implementation of the Spanish Urban Agenda and the Urban Rehabilitation and Regeneration Plan, which envisages a set of reforms and investments that offer a framework of support on different scales, from the territorial to the level of building and housing intervention, also applied to different environments, as it covers both the actions in the large metropolitan areas and in the rural areas. To this end, we have collected a number of tax subsidies and deductions programmes, so that young people can also benefit from these subsidies, become self-sufficient and create their own homes. Among other things, we have the Rehabilitation Programme for the economic and social recovery of housing and neighbourhoods, with an amount of €3420 million, the rehabilitation programmes for municipalities under 5000 inhabitants and energy efficiency, for which there are allocated €1.3 billion - although they will be managed by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition - and the Programme to boost 20,000 social rental housing within the framework of the Housing Plan for Affordable Rent, to which we are going to allocate €1 billion, and the Plan to boost the rehabilitation of public buildings in the autonomous communities and local entities and the boost of the Spanish Urban Agenda, for which we have €1.1 billion. In addition to all these concepts, the state plan and the European funds, in total we are going to mobilise almost EUR 8 billion for housing, which is an unknown figure in this country with regard to this issue. I therefore thank you once again for allowing us to review this issue, and I certainly hope that we will share, within the context of the objectives which you yourself have set, the possible cooperation for the development of this policy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u127	Thank you, President. Thank you, Minister, for your reply and explanations on what housing policy you want to develop. Look, as I told you at the beginning of the inquiry, what is in Spain is a precarious work model that condemns our young people to temporality, there are garbage contracts and salaries that make it impossible to pay rent, there are difficulties in accessing housing in conditions that force many to live with their parents, there is a lack of public policies to support women, who make us choose between being mothers or our professional career. Therefore, we are facing a real problem, a problem that needs a comprehensive, courageous, consensual response; a problem that requires state policies because our young people deserve no less. [[The Lord]] With regard to the proposals that you have submitted to us and continuing with the battery of proposals that we from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group want to put forward, let us make some of them concrete to make them available to you. We propose to develop for the state housing plan 2022-2025 a consensual and ambitious plan, a plan that includes resources for the autonomous communities to include unoccupied floors in the sheltered rental market. We propose an agreement in the Sectoral Housing Conference to make at least 60% of the buildings that are part of the unoccupied land grab programmes and intermediation programmes available to persons under thirty-five years of age. We propose a programme for the expansion of the public park of rented dwellings, as you have proposed to us, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, to increase the number of officially protected dwellings through the acquisition or concession of the use of private dwellings. We also propose to reformulate the proposed incentive for income tax on natural persons to facilitate access to rent for vulnerable groups, taking into account the specific characteristics in metropolitan areas. We propose a reform of the Royal Legislative Decree approving the consolidated text of the Soil and Urban Rehabilitation Act to establish that 100% of the housing that is built over the next thirty years and is subject to public protection is intended for the sheltered rent. Along with this, we also propose to unlock the urban development where the market is tense, as has been done in Madrid in the south-east and in the north. Similarly, when we talk about rental policy and taking into account practical experiences in price limitation, let us look at the models that have established Madrid, from the point of view of a liberal model, with the model that has been established, for example, in Barcelona with the policies of limitation regime of Podemos. We must bear in mind that the outcome of these measures is clear. In Barcelona the number of apartments for rent was reduced by 10.2% and in Madrid the rent increased by 1.7%. I think we need to keep that in mind. In Barcelona prices fell by 3% and in Madrid by 3.4%. We need to take into account where effective policies in this area should go. We have proposals and the firm intention to offer our young people the policies they deserve. We cannot continue to turn our backs on these generations that we demand effort, dedication and work for nothing. We must tell the young people of Spain that their efforts and their work, their energy and above all their hopes are a priority for us, Minister. The hope of the young people of 2021 will be the strength of tomorrow, and if you continue not to act in a rigorous, effective and clear manner, this government will continue to give hope to the young people and I am very afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that talking about 2050 is talking about a mirage in order not to address the challenges of the future. We put ourselves at your disposal with proposals, work to really improve the situation of young people and the future. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u128	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u129	Thank you, President. Thank you again, Mrs. Giménez. I agree with what you have said and, therefore, I do not want or deserve to argue; I agree with the part of your proposals which seems to me to fit well. I have taken note and will read them in the Journal of Sessions and we will take them into consideration. I believe that, to a large extent, many of them are coincident. The only thing I cannot share is that I take the case of the Madrid Community, because, in a slip, it seems that its subconscious has moved to when they were part of the government. They assume that this is no longer the case, they have to digest it and differentiate themselves from what was the housing policy of the People's Party because much of the diagnosis you have made has its cause, precisely, in the management of the People's Party, since between the period 2012-2018 there was no housing policy, and the little that there was was very counterproductive. It should be remembered that the People's Party cut public aid. Notice, between the 2009-2012 State Housing Plan - which he assumed - and the one that left us, in 2018-2021, 60% of the resources were cut, between one before and one after, 60% less of the resources! Unprotected the tenant, obviously, by reducing the terms of the lease contract, there was a significant increase in the rental price and completely abandoned - and even privatized - the public housing park, and the clearest case is that we always comment here on the 3,000 houses that the Community of Madrid sold. I don't think it's in line with everything you've exposed. This, in fact, who was hit the most? To the most vulnerable: to young people, as you have rightly said, also given their situation. Moreover, the legislative inaction led to the Constitutional Court itself establishing a reprimand for not using the State's regulatory power and establishing minimum conditions. We will continue to work on that affordable rental housing plan, in which you have also insisted so much. To recall, through the public park of social housing we provide 45,290 housing units, and through the Social Housing Fund, that public-private figure, we intend to mobilize 56 000 housing units. With that, we would have the target of 100,000. But it must also be remembered that housing is the exclusive competence of the autonomous communities; therefore, the role of the State is to promote and promote the implementation of this constitutional right, but management is in the autonomous communities and, to that end, we also have from the Government to try to complement the policies developed by the autonomous communities by giving different options, programmes and aids to enable them to implement, grant and manage this competence. To this end, we are regulating housing policies as a public service of general interest, promoting the development of stable public housing parks - I think that is what you have proposed in relation to the housing that has enjoyed official protection and finally end up in the private market and wasting the solidarity effort that this policy entails - also strengthening the right to decent housing at an affordable price, which must be guaranteed by the State; giving transparency, security and information within the housing market, as a way of exercising that right; and facilitating regulation that limits the rise in rental prices in certain particularly tense areas, because, in fact, you have put the case in Madrid, but Madrid is not characterized by having a proximity to affordable housing, rent or purchase. Anyone who goes through Madrid and needs a home knows how complicated, how terrifying and even how depressing it is at the psychological level to find an alternative. We are very aware of the need that arises for us. I thank you again for having highlighted this on the agenda of the national debate, which is already important in itself. I am therefore grateful to you again that we can talk about something that really concerns you, tangiblely, clearly and sometimes with a lot of disappointment to the Spaniards, and I can also tell you that I share most of the proposals you have put forward and I will take them very seriously. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government in connection with the assessments of the autonomists. [[File number 172/000113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u131	We continue with the urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government in relation to the contributions of the self-employed. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for her defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u132	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the lady of the President of the Government and her close colleague, the communist minister of the Workers' Committees of all life, have sponsored the new SME employer to compete with those already in existence who have so far defended and continue to defend the interests of small and autonomous enterprises, just when they are protesting against their abusive reforms. But look, Minister, I'm going to propose something to you. Why are you not in charge of sponsoring, as Minister of Social Security, the millions of self-employed who leave their skins to generate wealth and make this country prosper? Or is it that behind the reform of your large office, which has risen to EUR 2 million, there is no autonomous? I'm sure it is. An office, another office so you can be wide working on sane reports on how to shudder more self-employed workers. I know that you are not ashamed, but that you have a minister's office in your ministry and that, at the same time, you want to do another to not be near Yolanda Díaz to me as Spanish causes me, at least, stupor. You should be ashamed of what is falling in Spain and what the self-employed are suffering from, but advice I sell that I don't have. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has spent a huge amount of resources on the Spain 2050 Plan without it having yet presented a five-year plan today. The update of the Stability Programme does not say anything about what the Government intends to do to reduce public debt, a slab for the Spanish economy, for businesses, for the self-employed and for families. The National Reform Programme is a control C, control V - and not the other way around, as they said last week - of the National Transformation Plan. They still do not present a realistic medium-term consolidation plan that gives confidence to Spanish and investors, but they present this plan by 2050, a mixture of science fiction and terror novels, to tell us that immigrants must be introduced to Spain to ensure the sustainability of the pension system in its seventh chapter, and they also say that almost 40% of the self-employed and 36% of employers have a low level of education. Whatever the case, I believe that it is the members of the government who seem to be at a rather low level, because putting forward reforms at thirty years' notice with which it is falling is not to be very clever the truth. At least the self-employed, those of you who say you have a low level of education, show more desire to work for Spain, generate wealth and create jobs than the government. And they have only one concern today, the uncertainty as to whether they will let them continue to develop their activity, because they do not know whether they will receive the promised aid and compensation for their sacrifice, because they do not know whether their solvency problems will be solved, even if the government of lies will ruin them on the basis of taxes and increases in social contributions. As you see, it is you who do not let the self-employed sleep and generate uncertainty about their livelihood. [[Applauds]] Therefore, the three unknowns that workers urgently need to clear on their own and for which they demand sincere and realistic answers without propaganda or deception are: first, when they will receive the aid approved by the Royal Decrees 5/2021 and 6/2021, of which they left out half the autonomous. Secondly, your indecent extension model excludes 90% of current beneficiaries because they have exhausted the contributory period, but why have they exhausted it, either by their own decision or because you have banned them from working, Minister? No ERTE worker will be left without unemployment for having exhausted the contributory period, but will the self-employed do so? Everything okay? Obligations without rights? Not so, Minister, there are five days left, we are on discount time. And third and fundamental, the new real income contribution system, which is a unilateral proposal that the Government has made public without having reached an agreement with the main self-employed associations, and you, while you say you are doing it, for your own good. Last week he lied here, in parliamentary office, when he said that self-employed pensions are 70% lower than those of the rest of the workers, and I hope that it will be withdrawn because, according to his own ministry, self-employed pensions are 40% lower than the average pension for employed persons and 33% lower than the average pension for the system. He also lied when he claimed that before the pandemic there were 3 million autonomous people and that today there are 50 000 more. According to the data published by his ministry, last April he reportedly registered 3292,931 middle affiliates in the Special Self-Employed Regime, which is 23,843 more than in December 2019, considering this as a pre-pandemic date. These new autonomouss will be liquidated by the majority and by a pen the communist minister this Thursday when it validates the royal decree on riders. The reason you use as an excuse to stifle the self-employed more is Recommendation 4 of the Toledo Pact, which you have twisted and distorted to your measure to strike the self-employed one more blow. For what? In order to obtain a better collection, while the welfare of workers or the future of their pensions are ignored. This recommendation of the Toledo Pact says that, gradually, by adjusting to the wide variety of situations of the self-employed, measures could be promoted to bring the self-employed's contribution bases closer to their real income, and you have proposed a confiscation regime that condemns hunger and misery, which accounts for 36% of the income to which they invoice 3000 euros a year and 29.90 to which they invoice 49 000. If we add these contributions to the taxes, to the IRPF, it would mean, in this case, a total payment to the State of 55 % of its income. Is this what you mean by fiscal justice? And the third lie is that 90% of the self-employed contribute to the minimum base. According to his ministry's data, at 31 March 2021, it is false, because, of the total, 64 % is assessed by the minimum base and 36 by a base above the minimum, and of these 358 095 are assessed by a base of more than EUR 1500 per month. But it is curious that today's Social Security, paradoxically, prevents self-employed people over forty-eight years of age from being able to contribute for their real income. They are forbidden to increase their contribution even if they have high returns simply because years ago they had little. Look, after three times denying reality, as I just told you, as Saint Peter denied Jesus, who will believe you when you ensure that you have designed the reform to save the self-sufficient? For no one, minister; neither do they believe him in his house. His reputation and credibility have been compromised. It has moved from economics and predictive models to lie planning. [[Applauds]] The contribution system for real income, as it is currently proposed, is inconsistent and inconsistent and does not address the real case of self-employment. Firstly, it would leave out half the autonomous, so it is no longer an integral reform; error number one. It will lead to an increase in the quota to another 700 000 which are currently at the limit of the uncertainty of the economic context in which we are moving. Overpayment, therefore, could only apply this reform to 46 % of the self-employed in Spain whose net returns are known to the Tax Agency. But on what basis will the quota be applied to the rest of the self-employed? I am referring, for example, to self-employed people who work for a family member, to employees who do not declare income or who are in modules, to companies, also to those who work in multi-activity and who contribute to both schemes or to entrepreneurs who have just started their business, and whose income and returns are not yet known to the Treasury. Secondly, the system of quotations for real income, Minister, is part of a conceptual error. The cost of the activity must be deducted from the income invoiced by an autonomous person. Therefore, the appropriate concept for establishing proportional contributions would be income within the activity rather than income. For example, the EUR 2000 declared as a self-employed person's monthly return cannot be compared with the EUR 2000 of an employee's payroll, since self-employed persons must allocate a large part of that return to meet business expenses which, in many cases, are not tax deductible. In addition, they suffer from the lateness of their clients, who in many cases are the administrations themselves. The right system to offer the option to the self-employed person who can improve their contribution and extend their benefits must be one that offers individual freedom to choose the contribution to be paid. The proposed system would result in asphyxiation by thousands of self-employed workers, becoming unfair: it will penalize self-employed people in direct estimation who declare their income and will favour the rest of taxation systems. This may lead to the flight of self-employed persons from this tax system to others, such as corporate tax, modules or simply to the submerged economy. It is indecent to lie to the self-employed and tell them that this reform will improve their benefits when it is false, since although it improves on those of some, it would worsen those of others. The government, with this penultimate imposition, is simply and simply seeking a greater collection today to save the mistakes made since the beginning of the legislature. The main associations, which the Government hates, have insisted that it is not the time for their suffocating reform, because the self-employed, the target of their collection plan, do not have the capacity and are ruined enough to contribute more in the midst of recession. Moreover, what you sell as fair only concerns - I repeat - 46% of the total, generates inequalities and even injustices between the autonomous themselves. Its approach suffers from failures and weaknesses, because it does not take into account crucial elements for its design to meet reality, such as, for example, the technical difficulties that public administrations may have in determining the real-time contribution base, since only, as I have said, would it be possible to consider net returns, i.e. actual revenues less expenditure associated with the activity. On the other hand, many self-employed people do not have returns, as is the case with family members, or do they have losses Would this amount to a zero quota for self-employed people? Nor does it apply to all self-employed people, as I have told you, at least one million of them, leaving more than two million out of this system. Finally, if the system were to be implemented by stages, the border effect could result in a fall in the total net returns of the global economy, which would affect not only social security but also public finances, as well as the exit from the system of many self-employed people to the submerged economy, since they could not cope with the payment of quotas, which would result in less collection for the State in times of economic recession. In addition to other reasons that now do not give me time to describe, their supposed reform is born touched and sunk and doomed to failure. It would not be a reform for the self-employed, but against the self-employed. It would have a pernicious effect on GDP, leading to growth in the submerged economy by an insurmountable rise in contributions for the vast majority, and thus lower collection for general government. This decrease in income under the Special Self-Employed Scheme would mean a reduction in the protective capacity of self-employed people, who are in need today, and would have long-term negative effects on their contribution careers and, therefore, on their pensions. We are at a time of uncertainty, bleakness and exhaustion for the self-employed. Therefore, the increase in contributions in the current economic and business context is not acceptable. Demanding more from those who have sacrificed the most is immoral. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u133	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u134	Thank you, President. Your Honor, today you are giving us a new intervention - in this case, you are asking me - related to the self-employed. I have been seeing how I can respond to what you have asked me, which has, as is usual in your case, three characteristics. The first characteristic of his intervention is to use hyperbolic, dramatic, warlike language. It is an intervention based on false data, which contains no evidence of the substance. Disinformation is also ongoing. I have pointed out the following, because I think it is appropriate to remember it: do not let the self-employed sleep; when will they stop helping the self-employed?............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now I will answer this with reality, giving it the data, with the facts, with the evidence, because it is the way to answer all this. It is such a gap between what you say and what has happened that I will devote a few minutes of my intervention to the data, which really speak for themselves. The second characteristic of his interventions is to mix heterogeneous things, of all kinds, that are not very linked, that is, mix barbecues with merinas. With regard to the various unrelated things that you are mixing in your interventions, I will tell you that I have sought the link between the increase in public debt and the autonomous ones or where I might find it. I believe that there is a clear link, which is in the VOX proposal on the self-employed. Its programme proposal on self-employed persons: EUR zero if the income does not reach the minimum wage and, above this threshold, a progressive quota of EUR 50; a 100 per cent bonus of the quota while the self-employed person is on leave; reducing the quota of self-employed persons to EUR 50 per month for the whole group, not only for the new highs; suspending at no cost the subscription of the quotas to self-employed persons and contributions to the Social Security of employees at ERTE until the pre-crisis levels are recovered; direct compensation to self-employed persons who had to close, etc. Do you know what the relationship of all this to public debt is? This implies a drain of resources and income for Social Security that either means that these self-employed are never going to have a pension or benefits or it really means weakening Social Security and making it have to be financed with public debt. It's just that the inconsistency between the things you say is great! When I hear you talking about public debt and public deficit and then I read in your program the things you propose - all are exemptions, deductions and expenses around here - he asked me: But what program is this? Rigor lies in consistency and, of course, in the stability of public accounts and social security, which is what we are in. [[The lady]] Finally, the other problem we have is that we do not know what you are talking about, as the Government has not made or disclosed any concrete proposals on the issue of self-government. Therefore, I do not know what it is based on to say all these things that we have said or proposed. We are in a methodology that we started in October and, since then, we are exchanging proposals, materials and ideas with the three autonomous associations to understand how we design the topic and how we comply with the recommendation of the Toledo Pact and with something that has asked us all autonomous and that makes a lot of sense, which is to contribute to their real income, and to do so in a flexible, intelligent, gradual, etc. We have been doing this since October, exchanging materials and profiling different possibilities and proposals. We have not disclosed anything, because at this stage it is what needs to be done, working with the social partners. Since January we have incorporated the employer, the CEO, the Cepyme and the trade unions into a table together with the associations of self-employed people. We've been working with them since January, and right now we're already working in detail with all of them and closing fringes here and there. But the Government has never disclosed any of this whole process, because this is not the time. The time will be when we close all these discussions and negotiations and bring a text to the House. Then I will discuss with you what we propose and enter into all the details you want. Meanwhile, you put in the mouth of the government and in the mouth of I don't know who things are not on the table. I'm so sorry. It is that methodologically it is extraordinarily difficult to exchange views with you, because you create realities, about which you begin to elucidate, which do not exist. I would like to give you a series of data on self-employed people and also some information on the general lines of what we are agreeing with all self-employed associations, social partners, employers and trade unions. [[The Lord]] You spoke before the pandemic, the misery, the hunger and the liquidation of the autonomous, and I will give you some data. In Spain there are just over three million autonomous people. When we launched in March the provision of aid to self-employed people, which means that the self-employed person who has a minimum contribution of slightly more than EUR 950 per month, we granted it and have already received it in the first tranche 1.5 million self-employed persons - I repeat: 1.5 million self-employed persons -. Almost 50% of all self-employed people have received this benefit - by the way, we have closed all agreements with self-employed associations, all of them, we have carried them out every three or four months -. To this day, we are protecting 450,000 autonomous people, and so it will be until the end of May. And now we are also closing with the autonomous the scheme that will be in force in the next four months. That means that we have transferred and protected income from the self-employed for 10 billion euros - I repeat: 10 billion euros -. We are the country of Europe that has provided the most protection to the self-employed. Look at the international comparisons. You talk about hunger, misery, self-absorption. But what are you talking about? What world does he live in? And not only that, but at the moment - I will give you yesterday's figure - there are 11,000 self-employed people more affiliated with Social Security than there were on 11 March. Go to the show, check it out, search for stockings. Do you think that after the pandemic and everything we've been through there are more active self-employed people at this time and affiliated with Social Security than just before the pandemic? Is that compatible with all that barbarity you've said? Don't tell me! But let's take some point of reference, let's take the previous crisis, the crisis that goes between 2011 and 2018, with the People's Party government. Do you know, sixteen months later, how many self-employed had lost their job? Well, 240,000. Now 11,000 more. Do you know the protection that existed at that time for the self-employed? Zero. Now there are 10 billion euros in exemptions and protection. [[Applauds]] But what world do you live in, Mrs. Cañizares? But what do you tell us? Now we are going to enter - I have little time - where we are in the reform. It is a reform that has asked us for the Toledo Pact. Of course, there is a widespread consensus that self-employed people must contribute to real income, and that is so for them to have better pensions and better benefits. Any model we have on the table is going to be absolutely neutral from the collection point of view. This has no collectory interest, in any case. Of course, it will not harm the self-employed. You confuse social contributions with taxes. I don't know if you know what a social contribution is or what it is or what a tax is. You make the calculations well and I can assure you that there will be absolutely no proposal coming out of the agreement with the social partners where the self-employed have, in the sum of contributions and taxation, a situation worse than the wage earners, in no case, as much as you do not crush the self-employed but, in this case, the data. Now, what is the content of the reform? Well, obviously, there's going to be sections; there's consensus among all of us and there's going to be sections. There will be many below the current level. As you know, the self-employed now have to contribute at least EUR 285, the minimum contribution. There are going to be many sections below, because we have crossed the data with the Treasury - this has never been done before; this reform has been proposed since 2012 but so far it has not been possible to cross the data with the Tax Agency - and we have found that approximately two out of three self-employed people have income below the minimum fee. Therefore, with the new model two out of three self-employed are going to contribute less than what they are now contributing - two out of three, I repeat - and the rest is contributing something more, because it has net revenues, of course well calculated; the net revenues defined by the Tax Agency are absolutely in line with ours. And, of course, we will make an extraordinarily gradual model of adaptation to the new situation. I believe that in the discussions with the various associations of self-employed people there is just where we are now, in the graduality of the system, which, in any case, will be great. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Cañizares Pacheco. [[Applauds]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u136	Thank you, President. First of all, Minister, I do not confuse tax contributions, because I have been self-employed since 1993 and a tax adviser. [[applause]] So I know perfectly well what I'm talking about, so lessons neither. Do you know how to reduce public debt? Eliminating unnecessary public spending, superfluous, political, advisors, chiringuitos. [[Applauds]] And Germany has been the country that has provided the best and most aid to the self-employed, up to 75% of the 2019 billing. Now I'm going to tell you that you, like the rest of your blue bench accomplices, are trying to ruin Spain - and so it is - and confront the Spaniards, instead of giving answers to what I'm asking you, is dedicated to criticizing VOX and our economic program. But don't worry, because despite your insistent opposition to the opposition to justify your negligence and divide, when we govern - unfortunately, today we still don't govern - you will have the opportunity to criticize us, to make opposition, to make your complaints and your suggestions about our program. I assure you that if you were to apply our program to Spain today, it would be much better for you than with the recipes of your sectarian government. [[Applauds]] But, on the other hand, it seems fantastic to me that you are talking about our programme, because it clearly denotes that you have read it and that it arouses you, at least, curiosity; even if you twist it, perhaps because we say what you would like to say and do not dare. In any case, the great interest they have in our formation and our economic policies is a step and, even if they deny it, it is because they are certain of the great contributions that we will make to Spain. However, today, the policies that apply are yours and those of your communist and separatist partners, unfortunately for the Spaniards, and these are the ones that are susceptible to criticism and reprobation, not ours. But, well, I reiterate my invitation to you, when we govern, to ask a lot and propose from freedom, that we will be happy to answer your questions, without rodeos or lies, because in VOX we are very clear. [[Applauds]] Look, Minister, your Government and those who support your policies will allow Spain to go to the precipice. And don't talk to me about war or dramatic languages, because it's a drama what is being lived in Spain, or have you not seen the queues of hunger? No, of course, he lives in his ministry and they don't see him there. The objective of your own separatist partners, which you justify, is to increase contributions to the self-employed, and it says that it is to improve social services and benefits in the future. But the only truth he says is that the self-employed are going to pay more - that's the only truth -. They'll be the government's ATM to pay for their party. I'm not making this up, all the self-government associations have said. See the interviews and the publications. What's the matter, that board was invented? I don't think so. The one who's lying is you. You seek to plunder with any justification, and now it is up to the self-employed, as a few months ago it was up to the financial companies and the technological ones. Soon there will be no family, self-governing or enterprise that will not be impaired its purchasing capacity in the face of the collecting anxiety of this Government. What management have you made of public money since you've been sitting in those blue seats, beyond using the mechanisms you want to repeal? I remind you, Minister, that your Government wants to repeal labour reform.What do you think of this? Do you know what the problem with your project is? They don't have a project. They sell smoke, mythical dates -2030; 2050-, propaganda and headlines, while Spain bleeds. I give you a piece of advice, and it is that the abusive reform that you intend to stop for the moment and leave it by 2050, the year in which you all dream that you will be green, ecological, transversal, resilient, collective and sustainable; that is, without losing the gender perspective. [[Applauds]] But the reality is that half of the self-employed are in serious difficulty in saving their business; that three hundred thousand expect to close this year and estimate their losses at more than €70 billion; that one million self-employed people say they have had losses over €30,000; that one in three believe that their business will not recover until 2023; that 41% say they have had an ERTE of all or part of their workforce; that 39% of self-employed people with workers have no liquidity to face a layoff; that 20.7% of self-employed people have workers who will have to decrease by 2021. [[The lady]] And not only do you not help them, but you want to end up with the mandatory increase in contributions. No more cynicism, Minister. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u137	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Cañizares, if your speech full of misinformation, noises, infamy, one after the other, will remain there and out simply a strategy of political destruction, of burned land, we would make an aesthetic judgment and that is it. Do you know what the problem is? That there are some self-employed people who believe it and end up making decisions based on their misinformation, and that harms and harms them in their professional career, which is a huge irresponsibility. This is what was happening in the United States - remember - when Mr. Trump said that disinfectant had to be injected to cure the coronavirus. There were people who injected him. Well, it's the same thing. When they hear you, there are people who make decisions. I'm going to give you an example that you're going to understand perfectly. In March last year we drew an extraordinarily extensive and generous benefit that led to 1.5 million self-employed people having a minimum protection of 950 euros in the pandemic. You left immediately in the troupe telling the self-employed that it was not going to protect almost anyone, that it was not going to go anywhere, that it was not going to apply. And what did some self-employed people do? They were discharged from Social Security and were unable to receive that benefit. You see how funny it is? For that is called irresponsibility, Mrs Cañizares; I repeat: irresponsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u140	We move on to the next item on the agenda. We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the provision of a system of payment for use on the State's road network and extendable to the rest of the roads, included in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan formally forwarded to the European Commission on 30 April. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs. Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, they have the possibility of avoiding a new drama, a blast in the citizens' pocket with the implementation of a payment system for the use of the State's road network. In short, a new tax that will impact on each and every citizen of this country, a saber fruit of the lie, already designed, even if they deny it, and materialized with night and lightness with its shipment to Brussels, which has not been even debated and agreed with the transport sector, with which you had committed to do so, a sector that now knows what the value of its word is. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is frightened by the taxes of an aimless government. The road is the main mode of inland transport of people, with 88% of the modal distribution, and represents 94% of the transport of goods. To increase road transport now and with it all products, including basic and basic products, is not the solution, ladies and gentlemen, especially with the galloping crisis that we are experiencing and what is going to be difficult for us to recover. This government cannot talk about competitiveness and economic recovery when it has introduced taxes with which it intends to raise €80 billion: diesel, air tickets, sugary drinks, insurance, registration taxes. And now they also intend to create a new traffic tax that they want to sell as a pollution tax - which pollutes, pays - and that they justify saying that cars pollute a lot, but at the same time they tell Brussels that trucks are not going to pay and that toll will be passed on to shippers. What are we left with, ladies and gentlemen? They lie more than they speak and, as are the champions of hypocrisy, on top of them have the quail to affirm in their pamphlet Spain 2050 that the transport of goods made by roads is the sector that generates the most emissions. Its high incidence responds, among other things, to the low fiscal pressure. Is fiscal pressure low when you contribute EUR 11 billion to state budgets and road conservation amounts to about EUR 2 billion? A fallacy, ladies and gentlemen, or the foreground of a fiscal hell for many sectors of activity. Speak, of course, ladies and gentlemen. Will another tax come on fishing boats or sports boats or do they intend to continue punishing the air sector? If we had a responsible Government, they would be analysing one of the biggest drawbacks for high-capacity tolls, which is nothing other than the absence of alternative routes and if there is an alternative route, the consequences that would arise from an increase in vehicle inflow, which would be nothing other than increased danger, disaster and pollution. And the government's solution is no more than extending tolls to all roads in Spain. I do not say that, as you say, ladies and gentlemen, in the document you have sent to the European Commission. And since that measure is not enough, the President last week dared to present the 130 measures plan in response to the demographic challenge to help our peoples, but it really does not help the peoples, but it supports the rise in the price of fruits, vegetables, fish, meat produced in our peoples with an unjust and non-progressive tax that will upset the fragile economy of all our municipalities. Oil, flour and milk travel through the network of roads, ladies and gentlemen, and are essential products that can raise their price up to 18%. Every time the Spaniard buys the bread or milk he will be paying the A-67, the AP-7 or any road in his village. The transporter will no longer only have to pay, probably, the loan he has for the purchase of his vehicle, but also the traffic tax, the fuels, the maintenance of the vehicle and now a new tax, of which he will have to advance the cost and then it will have an impact on the products we consume. And they lie when they say that they are going to use this tax for the maintenance and conservation of roads, because it will be collected by the Treasury, ladies and gentlemen, and the Government will distribute it as it pleases or as it pleases at that time. To show a button: the 53 million euros of Plus Ultra that today appear on the front pages of our newspapers, but abandon the A 67 Aguilar Palencia, or take out a study of Traffic to justify that they will not do the works of the A68. Ladies and gentlemen, our Minister Ábalos has turned lying into an art to survive and there are many scandals that have sprung upon him since his arrival in the ministry, but there he continues to hound, firm, ascending wrapped in crystals as in The Cypress of Silos. However, there is little in his person of the virtues that Gerardo Diego exalted from that centenary tree. The minister is a charlatan with the tougher face than the rails of the train that his ministry has abandoned. [[Applauds]] In addition to lying, he is tremendously irresponsible: his non-coalition with Bildu or lifting the barriers of beaten highways like AP 7 are populist and short-term measures. But time ends up showing that where I say, Diego. He lied a dozen times with the Delcy Gate - there is the Supreme's car -, he lied with Plus Ultra, he lied last week in this House saying that the payment system was not included in the plan they had sent to Brussels. Moreover, in his pamphlet of Spain 2050 it envisaged precisely this: to adjust the taxation of road transport to the real use of the vehicle, taking into account its weight, its power, its emissions. Either they lie to Europe or they lie to us all, ladies and gentlemen, or both, because presenting measures that they then deny is crazy. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, Mr Echenique has already said no to tolls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Andalusia has manifested itself, Asturias has manifested itself, Cantabria too. Mr. Spokesman of the Socialist Party, bear in mind that in 2013 Mr.Siancas said: We do not agree with this measure at all and we are going to fight it. And I'm done. Rectify, withdraw the proposal you have sent to Brussels, do so as soon as possible and waive its inclusion in the future mobility law. May the minister work for his country, that he does not dedicate himself to being a Don Juan Tenorio. Not because I'm going to meet the ladies at the airport, but it really fits what Zorrilla describes...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u142	Mrs. Castillo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u143	I'm done. ... which is summed up in the following: Wherever I went, / the reason I ran over, / the virtue I mocked, / the justice I mocked, / and the friends I sold. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mr López-Bas Valero spoke by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, go ahead and say that the Citizens' Group does not agree with any more tolls or tax cuts on the Spaniards. My group has tabled an amendment to the motion of the People's Party which we believe might well contain the points of the original motion's agreement. We modified the People's Party's motion to create a subcommission to study financial sustainability and the financing model of the road network in our country, which should take a decision in the first half of 2022. We simply propose that to work on finding solutions we sit down and talk about what we are paid for. As I said, the points of agreement of our amendment could be those of the original motion, because the whole exhibition is basically a finding of what the PSOE has been a sign of electoral populism. As the People's Party itself maintains in its motion, Minister Ábalos has indeed been a master of populism in this matter. What's it called if that minister in December 2019 was photographed in the Valencian Community in the AP7 saying that the end of that toll was a historic milestone? Now, however, it tells us that we have to pay again for that toll, for that step on that highway. How is it explained that in AP 4, the section between Cadiz and Seville, Mr Ábalos himself said that it had been a great business, presuming to free us by now telling us that in 2024 we will have to pay again? As I say, it seems to us a mockery and a deception to all the Spaniards that the socialist policy of toll liberalisation, two years later - when the PSOE governs - has become the policy of the new tolls, those that were removed before and those that recover because they put themselves new in our way. Let us not be fooled, this is what Minister Ábalos and the Socialist Government have been letting us down with droplets for about two years. Where tolls were removed before, they must now be put to pay for the maintenance of those same roads. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you must acknowledge that you cannot take up this issue either. You, with your popular governments, are also the ones who extended, beyond your initial deadlines, tolls and concessions on the Spanish motorways. Moreover, you now claim a no from tolls, forgetting that on many occasions you put them and, as I say, you extended them. It draws attention to the fact that in your motion you refer to a press article of June 2018 in which the already Minister Ábalos was accused of giving folder to the debate on the financing model of our roads with his first decision then: to remove the tolls at the end of the concessions that were winning. You even remember in your motion Minister De la Serna, a minister of the People's Government who, a few months earlier, in January 2018, had launched an offer of dialogue to the rest of the parties to reach a political agreement. And that's exactly what we put on the table again with our motion. Ladies and gentlemen, if the state of the Spanish motorways was worrying in 2018, imagine if it is now, almost three years later, with 8 billion accumulated deficits, to which almost 500 million more are added annually. What's more, you can't imagine it, just because you know it perfectly well. It is you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who have led to this point simply by not designing a model in your day on how to pay for the maintenance and repair of our roads. You must tell the Spaniards everything, tell them the truth, tell them that you have never sat down to change the financing model of our paths. Of course you're right, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, when they say that the PSOE is populist. Of course you are right, Socialist gentlemen, when you say that it is the People's Party that is now doing what you want to do: to maintain the tolls. But you went to the election with a program that said you were going to free highways and today, if we neglect, you're going to get your hands on us to keep paying tolls even on the county roads. If you really want to do a useful policy for the benefit of the Spaniards, start both games telling the truth, tell the Spaniards to the face, stop playing with what we do now is what we said before. They design a new model that avoids tolls, new tolls and tax jams, they design a fair, sustainable and stable system, they recognize that in their decisions on this issue they have always been influenced by nationalists and regionalists, to whom investments, budgets, validations of decrees or enactment of laws had to be paid. That is why we have offered you our amendment, so that you can accept it and vote in favour of it, so that you can demonstrate that you are capable of abandoning opportunistic debates, of balloons, and above all of abandoning opposition to yourselves in the past. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u146	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Jiménez Revuelta has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u147	With venom, the president. The motion for urgent questioning by the People's Party on the establishment of tolls on all high-capacity roads, which we are debating today, is on the same line as the non-legislative proposal presented by this parliamentary group on 7 May, which will particularly affect middle- and low-income families, as well as the self-employed, entrepreneurs and transporters. You will be able to imagine the meaning of our vote. This parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the operative part of the motion that improves that of the People's Party. This plan was sent to Brussels on October 7th under the name of Spain May and may, ladies and gentlemen, in the hands of whom we are, it can sink us even further. Ladies and gentlemen, the commitment of this Com munity social government to the introduction of money from European funds is leading to a total dependence on Europe and, therefore, to a loss of freedom and sovereignty. It is clear that the Spanish X-ray: 125 % of debt, which will lead our future generations to debt slavery; a fall in gross domestic product of 10.8% and a deficit of 11 %, being the largest in the European Union. With this X-ray the Government wants to impose tolls on all roads in Spain to convince that the government's commitment to public finances is the right one to be rescued; that is, that the Spanish citizens will have to pay for the disastrous management of the Government forever. Because it is imposing tolls, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a temporary plan, it is another socialist plan that comes to stay. Because while imposing on the Spaniards this toll on the roads that have already paid with their taxes plug 53 million euros to companies of all less strategic like Plus Ultra, or reform the office of the Minister of Social Security for 2 million euros, or almost 18 million euros is spent in this first trimester to pay the payroll that receives the army of advisers from which it has, 3 million more than the same period of a year ago. The Government has gone from presuming to liberalizing tolls such as AP7, AP4 and AP1 to proposing a payment for the use of high-capacity roads with the excuse of financing their maintenance and integrating negative externalities of road use. By the way, what are these negative externalities? What is the contribution of 4.8% of Spanish GDP? What is the transport of 85% of the products consumed by the Spaniards? The thousands of jobs generated? Is it freedom for the citizen to move to his will for leisure or work? Are you aware of the amount of taxes generated by the automotive sector? I say this to you, EUR 30 billion a year between VAT, registration tax, excise duties on fuel consumption, circulation taxes, taxes associated with the transfer of used vehicles. And where does that money go? We'd like to know. Because the implication that the imposition of these tolls may have, according to some calculations, is that for example for the Madrid-Valencia stretch the cost reaches 14 euros; the 75 kilometers that separate Zamora from Benavente, for the A66, would have an approximate cost of 6.75 euros, or in the case of the trip to Salamanca by the same way the amount would amount to 5.94 euros. If 85% of road transport is carried out, the imposition of these tolls will affect the final consumer, who will see how the price of all products will rise causing lower purchasing power for families. This government movement is going to lead to a transfer of drivers to safer roads where more accidents occur and where casualties result in more deaths. And they will be the most precarious families economically, as well as the transporters the great injured. In short, ladies and gentlemen, an imposition which not only has an economic cost but also a loss of freedom, since with each movement through payment, most of which is by bank, the origin and destination will be known, in order to control the citizens and everything with small doses of apparent legality. In short, they want to have us anesthetized without perceiving it, gagged without wanting it and lost without knowing it, but in VOX all the measures that attack our freedom we will repeal them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Jiménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor in the first place, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. Within its unstoppable and indiscriminate voracious approach to plundering the pockets of society, the Government is now threatening to rush the collection machine, on this occasion under the pretext of maintaining the National Road Network, which, by the way, is clearly improved in many cases, and uniquely in Asturias, which, speaking of transportation and along with the northwest, has been penalized by highways - like no other community - its toll communication to Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, if this new skilful attempt is not avoided, we will face another major step towards competitiveness and the economy with serious repercussions, as they are already warning in many autonomous communities and sectors. It will be impossible for Spain to achieve its economic recovery and to emerge from the crisis if its Government continues the ravages caused by its fiscal policy and persists in creativity to design new formulas that impoverish the population more and more, hinder the productive fabric and destroy employment. I will vote in favour of this initiative, which should serve to reinforce by parliamentary means the rejection of the tax burden with which the Government of Pedro Sánchez is being used in depth and without scrutiny, and because the European Commission must be aware that, although the Government has poured it into the plan sent to Brussels at the end of April, here in the General Courts, there are those who do not accept a payment system on high-capacity Spanish roads. I am very afraid, however, Mrs Castillo, that we will be attending this debate at another cynical double-language exhibition of the groups on the left, which support the Government by saying one thing to the citizens, but apply the revenue recipe to the first ones of change. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The government of the sablazo and the lie, the government that puts its hand in the portfolio of the Spaniards to steal them with taxes, and now with tolls. But, worst of all, he's cheating because he's going to Brussels with a plan and when he gets that plan he's taken for the bajini, he says, "We're thinking. But how serious is a government that says it comes to think after sending an official document to Europe in which we are playing 140 billion euros! You want to be serious! They represent Spain, they are not representing the Socialist Party! [[Applauds]] That is, for toll the one who is willing to pay the Government of Spain to Catalan independence. What a shame of tolling! What a bust for all the Spaniards! [[Applauds]] Today the Supreme Court has come out to oppose the pardon and, in the meantime, we have a president who confuses revenge with justice; a minister of justice who sees natural kneeling and submissiveness to the postulates of those who have perpetrated a coup against democracy in our country as it had not occurred in decades. What a bummer and shame the Spaniards feel! That's right, if they think this toll is going to come out for free, they're getting confused. We'll go out on the street and then we'll go to the polls, and this toll, that's what you're going to pay for. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u152	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Barandiaran Benito. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. When I come home after this plenary session and someone stops me on the street and asks me, as usually happens, that what about Madrid and Congress, I have no doubt that, as unfortunately happens on more than one occasion, I will have to say to him: for look, a misconception, a real misconception. Because it sees that this debate is a real misconception in the terms that are being raised: 8 billion deficits accumulated in the maintenance of roads; more than 1 billion annual costs of spending on the maintenance of these roads; a European directive that is promoting road pricing; a deficit of the State itself that is already incalculable; a deficit in the social balance and in the construction of other parameters of equalisation or minor differences, and we are still falsifying the debate when in private the previous government of the People's Party and the government of the Socialist Party, the parties that have been ruling, are claiming that this is an impossible debate, that it is perverse to pay for the use of roads. What are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? The European Union is promoting the implementation of an infrastructure charging policy which is set out in a directive, 2011/76, and is doing so with a dual purpose: that users should contribute to meeting the costs of operating the road network and its maintenance - that is, the user, pay - as well as to encourage technological innovation which contributes to reducing the environmental impact of that transport formula - the polluter, pay - and also, why not say so, it is intended to give coherence to the tax system not only to reduce the current deficit in road construction, maintenance and exploitation, but also to direct part of that expenditure to the construction of a system of social coherence, which is the one that characterizes the European Union, to social Europe. It is not only a question of whether the first component of the plan which the Government has been able to send to Brussels envisages that part of the deficit reduction should have as a counterpart the income which the use of high-capacity roads can pay for the use or payment of polluters, it is a question of resuming road management, and it also has criteria of economic, social and environmental sustainability, and also of competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which also influences. What are you doing promoting confrontation where you know that in the end you will have to reach agreements, an understanding? I'm going to give you an example that's proper. The historical territories of Guipúzcoa, Vizcaya, Álava and Navarra - Mr Sayas, Navarre also has competence and exercises them in this matter - are competent for the planning, financing, project, construction, modification, conservation, exploitation, use and defense of their roads. They have always done so, the State has never intervened in this matter, the historical territories have been competent. In Guipúzcoa, which is the case I know best, a unanimous agreement has been reached for a time - I repeat, unanimous - including the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Bildu, the PNV and some other that existed at that time, to amend Article 111 of the consolidated text of the Outroad Road Act, and payment was introduced in 2011 for the use of the infrastructures of the Trans-European Road Network of the historical territory. Let's see, that's the address. If there is a European directive, if there are common criteria, if there are elements that facilitate the possibility of making road management more feasible, first of all in a more rational way, and second, of rationalising the management of the budget itself in social terms, why are we talking about the possibility of introducing payment for use on a phased basis and for the year 2024 can be somewhat perverse? We don't understand. We know that this issue can count on the rejection of the transporters and part of the population, but we understand that the role of politics is precisely, when there are such problems, to make decisions, the government promoting initiatives and responsible opposition helping to what the general interest demands, and not the spectacle we saw last day, ladies and gentlemen on both sides. Well, that's the situation we've seen. We will vote not, of course, on this amendment, but what I want to do is appeal to both the participants and those who have amended - who, in my view, hold an absolutely demagogic and opportunistic position - to abandon that line and work precisely to reach an agreement on this matter, because they will have to do so and also because it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u155	Thank you, Madam President. The possibility of setting up tolls on all motorways is generating great concern in Galicia about the negative effects it would have on the popular classes and on the costs of economic activities especially in a country like ours, which has a peripheral geographical location on the peninsula and in Europe. A measure that the Government intends to sell as green to discourage the use of the private vehicle will really represent a slab in a country such as Galicia, which does not have adequate public transport or a rail network to meet the needs of the twenty-first century, especially for the transport of goods. And we must make it clear: without alternatives it is not an ecological measure, it is simply antisocial and anti-galega. The rich will always be able to pay for the highways. Tolls are going to really burden the popular classes and entail a cost overrun for Galician companies, which will continue to lose competitiveness. In addition, it would have the effect of increasing traffic on conventional roads, already in many cases collapsed, and where most death-related accidents occur, especially in Galicia, where it is difficult to find a kilometre of road without houses around. It is surprising that this government, which qualifies itself as progressive, never takes into account the social costs that decisions like this may entail. Reducing the number of accidents and deaths due to road violence should be a priority objective. Tolls on motorways would undoubtedly have the opposite effect: higher cost in human lives and also higher cost in social and health spending. Furthermore, it is unacceptable that when the Spanish Government has not yet fulfilled its commitment to lower tolls in AP 9 to end the legalized theft that means for all Galicians and Galicians, it announces that it intends to implement them on the motorways. First, fulfill, develop alternatives, and then we talk. The position of the PP is really hypocritical and demagogic, because when they ruled they planned these same tolls.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Rego, for your time.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u157	In any case, we reaffirm the position of the BNG, because at least in Galicia without alternatives is a robbery.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Miquel i Valenti has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u159	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Castillo, you and the Socialist Party do the same with tolls and taxes: when you rule you do one thing and when you are in opposition you say the opposite. When I heard her talking to you, I remembered an interview that economist José Carlos Díez gave in which he said: "No one like PP raised taxes from Isabella the Catholic. See if you have merit with your tax hikes. Something similar happens to us with tolls, because they do one thing when they rule and say the opposite when they are in opposition. We call for a calm debate on this issue that starts with two concepts that are important. Firstly, a balance of sustainability, because we know that total free does not exist. You said a Spaniard when he buys milk and when he buys bread he'll be paying for roads. You will not think, Mrs. Castillo, that the roads that are free today are paid alone. How do you get paid? Well, with the Spanish taxes. But the debate is not that, the debate is how we do so that the high-capacity pathways are economically sustainable. Well, we will have to strike a balance between the total free - which does not exist, Your Honor - and the abuse that exists on some roads and on some tolls of this territory, because those who defend private public collaborations - in which I believe that you and I can agree - we must be the most demanding when reporting abuses, if they occur, on some roads. We know a little bit about that in Catalonia, we know a little bit! And here I come to the second issue that is important to us, which is territorial balance. Mr LópezBas said that the result of the tolls in Spain today is the result of the blackmail of the nationalists. Well, look how you look, this isn't so. If you look for kilometers with toll, the winners - surprise - we are the citizens of Catalonia. If you look at the percentage of high-capacity roads with tolls, who has the position of honor, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Basque Country. Thus, it must be recognized that the blackmail of the nationalists in this case has been a real failure and those who are paying here the broken plates of one party and another, who do not agree to make a profound reflection on how to solve the issue of high-capacity roads in the Spanish territory, are the citizens, especially the Catalans, the Basques, the Valencians and so many others that we continue to pay high tolls on the high-capacity roads. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we urge you all to have a calm debate that does not attempt to seek out any party or strange photographs, but to solve the real problem and give a real answer to the citizens who use the road as a means of going to work or visiting their families. Let's give them a calm answer. Let us not say one thing and do the opposite when we govern, because the discredit we add to politics is tremendously irreparable. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us read this compromise amendment which has arrived, but this is our position and our point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u160	Thank you, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Granollers Cunillera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u161	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. Today we are debating a motion by the People's Parliamentary Group urging the Government to withdraw a proposal for payment for the use of State roads. It is curious that precisely the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group says so. When we asked from Catalonia for the completion of the tolls, you made deaf ears. We now celebrate that you care about users; it's a pity that you only care about users, users of the Bernabéu stage. [[Applauds]] Centralism has meant that decision-making on infrastructure is decided on the basis of certain electoral interests of the President of the Government or the Minister of Development in office, and I give some examples. Thus it is explained that the AVE will arrive in Seville when the Sevilleian Felipe González was president of the government; in Malaga, when he was minister of Fomento the Malagasy Magdalena Álvarez; in Valladolid, when he was president of the Leonese José María Aznar, and Galicia, when they were ministers of Fomento the Galicians Pepe Blanco first and Ana Pastor later. The rescue of Madrid's toll roads is a clear example of oversized infrastructure and waste of resources in favor of the interests of an oligarchy. These radial highways were supposedly built to decongest traffic in Madrid, although they were not a priority for the public interest. The problem is that, thanks to the generous terms of concessions, risks and bankruptcy were not assumed by the concessionaries, but by the State; therefore, Mrs Castillo, they were assumed by all users and by all Spanish citizens. The Spanish State paid more than EUR 5 billion with the money of all taxpayers. In short, what interests you is a structural model of waste that brings together the interests of the turn parties, the banking industry, the big builders and the users we have mentioned before. From Catalonia we ask for mobility with low environmental impact and social cohesion, with a commitment for a combination of intermodal mobility systems that prioritizes public transport and invests in rail, both passengers and goods. We also call for sustainable infrastructure to serve the productive economy and planned with criteria of socio-economic profitability and assessment of the cost and social, territorial and environmental impact that must have, and also the consolidation and improvement of the current railway network, with the system of proximity as a priority. Now in many cases, such as the R12 line from Lleida to Manresa, they continue to operate at speeds more typical of the 19th century than of the 21st century and so people do not travel by rail. We must guarantee the international wide rail connection and the Mediterranean corridor, which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, will obviously not pass through Madrid. Public transport should also be promoted as a cornerstone of policies on the right to mobility. Programming of intermodality and financing systems are essential for efficient management and quality public service. The completion of motorway concessions is an opportunity to establish new systems for high-capacity road networks, such as the Eurovignette, but there must be a balance between investment, maintenance costs, management, environmental costs and payment for use and service. But any solution, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, must go through consensus with the autonomous communities and to address a model that adapts to the citizenry by making it more equitable and proportional. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Granollers. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] By Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u163	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Our group's position on this is public: we believe it does not touch. It does not touch at a time like this the possibility of tolls on roads that are currently not subject to payment. But, honestly, I do not understand this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group, the truth is that I do not understand it; that the party of the radials comes to give us lessons that they do not want to tolls is an insult, it is an insult. [[Applauds]] If anyone has set tolls in this country it has been. Moreover, I believe that the bench of the right as a whole and with all its expressions should be honest. Say it clearly. In this case, we do not agree that this possibility should be opened, but what concerns you is not that, what concerns you is something else. What worries you is how you guarantee and defend here the interests of those who have been fishing fish in a cube through toll concessions. That is the substantive debate. Say it clearly. What you want is privatization. If it were through private concessions, you would agree, because so those to whom you come to defend here, which is to the big concessionary companies, to those cartels that have been doing with the public work in this country, to those big quasi-monopolistic companies, will continue to suck from the boat, as they have been doing all this time. [[applause]] Where does the deficit come from to a large extent as well? Does it not come from that system of private concessions where those who defend market freedom guaranteed the benefits to the concessionaires? Of course, from the neoliberal point of view we know what it means, we understand what this is about. You have a concept and we could see it very clearly in the management of the 2008 crisis: socializing losses and privatizing profits. That's his economic model and his social model. We agree to review the toll model of the high-capacity road network to ensure sustainability and efficient use. We can interpret it in many ways, but we believe that we will have to see what has happened to the system that has been used so far for the establishment of tolls and who has been inflating themselves to earn millions of euros at the cost of the public deficit, because it has not been precisely the road users, but it has been the large cartel companies of the public works. Let's make it clear. Come up here and defend what you really share among all of you, which is that conception of Hayek and Milton Friedman to use the common goods to profit from economic monopolies. That's your project. Be honest, get up here and recognize it and stop doing demagogy, because you bet again and again to defend the interests of the privileged here. That is all they are interested in and that is the only interest that moves them with this initiative, because they see that those who have been inflating themselves to earn millions at the expense of private concessions, the cartel of public works that exist in this country, can be threatened because there can be a formula of public management. At the moment, we believe that it is not up to us to open the debate to start charging on those roads on which we have not been charging so far. Obviously, we believe that this is a bulwark error, and more so in the current economic situation. Now, don't sell us the bike. I come from the Community of Madrid and we know what criteria you used to get the radials out, and it was not the needs of Madrid's citizens, but the needs of those large companies that have been deploring the public resources that the working people pay. We want to put something on the table, and this ends. In order to finance the state, what is needed are direct taxes and the one that has the most pays, and that is where we are still very late. [[Applauds]] There are already global initiatives that are seeking to end the tax privileges of large transnational corporations. Let us meet there, because that is a democratic element. It is not a socialist element nor is it a communist element, although perhaps it is a little republican - it is true - to ask that the one who has the most pays. That is what we are asking, because we believe that in order for social justice to take place, there must be fiscal justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Ramos Esteban has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u165	Thank you, President. Today we come here to a complex debate in which those of us in politics must live up to it. Today we were not lucky enough to listen to Mr Lorite, but I can imagine it the day he heard the minister propose that we open a debate on how to fund the maintenance of the road network. You'd probably ask yourself: I'm used to coming here to insult the minister and be a failure, how am I going to make proposals, if I don't usually get it right to make proposals, dialogue or consensus? I can imagine your uneasiness. He probably called the Secretary General of the People's Party, Mr. Teo - who occupies his place today - to say: Teo, who tells me that I have to debate and I have come here to be lacking, to talk about Venezuela, to talk about Delcy and all those issues that I think give me the easy applause. I therefore understand that Mr Lorite feels uncomfortable with some debates like this, but, curiously, this is something that has spread to the whole People's Parliamentary Group. Today Mrs Castillo, who is usually very moderate in her speeches, has obtained the easy applause when she called the minister a charlatan. Do you really think that in parliamentary debates we have to win the applause of our colleagues simply when we insult the opponent? [[Applauds]] In the Socialist Party, of course, we believe that this is not the policy that citizens expect. We believe that we have an obligation to give more level and I think it is a debate in which there is much demagogy, but we must see what each one did when he ruled. What did the People's Party do when it ruled in this country? He extended all the tolls, even those that had already accomplished much for its construction. He designed and built the toll freeways, those that broke and that we have had to pay all citizens, and had a clear intention of continuing to extend the tolls in AP 1, AP 4 and AP7. The Socialist Government complied with what it said in the opposition: once the concessions are over, they will not be extended again and from there we will have to discuss the financing model of the road network. That is what we are bringing here today, that is what the Minister has proposed and what we are defending. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, you are proposing to lower taxes, you are proposing to make more infrastructure and you are proposing that we pay the 1.2 billion maintenance with the budgets. And I wonder, how do you do that? The only way that could be done would be for Mr.Paul Married to become the new Jesus Christ capable of multiplying bread and fish. Really, if you do a valuation, lower taxes, raise infrastructure and pay less is radically impossible, and I think we have to be very consistent in that. Today we have listened to Citizens here and I will acknowledge that I was surprised by the position they have maintained. It should be remembered that in politics, when one is incoherent, the ballot boxes punish us. We must be aware of this when we debate, when we propose, when we defend what we defend. Citizens know it well, because it went from fifty-seven to ten Members of Parliament for incoherence. Today they have come here to say one thing and the opposite. We are proposing a debate on the maintenance and financing of the maintenance of the road network, a debate to which Citizens, curiously, are going to oppose. He will oppose it when he has defended it permanently; it is more so, when all his spokesmen have said, even the one who has intervened today, that they believe it is necessary. What does the PSOE propose? The PSOE is proposing to open the debate. We believe that this is essential because we need to define how the EUR 12 billion is paid. How do you get paid? They can be paid as we do now, for budgets, and with that we will have no money - and we have to say it - for new infrastructures. It will be necessary to tell people that they have no highways on their land - for example, those of Teruel, those of Soria, those of Zamora - that we are not going to make those highways. How are we going to do it if they want to allocate $1.2 billion simply to maintenance? How does the People's Parliamentary Group come here asking us to put more trains or buses in depopulated Spain if they say we have to use 1.2 billion for the maintenance of the road network? As I said before, I believe that in politics we have to be consistent, we have to be brave and we have to be able to bring serious debates here and say what we think. The People's Party has already told us what it thought. The People's Party and all its ministers wanted to put a payment for use; this spokesman knows it and the previous spokesman, Rafa Simancas, because this is what the various ministers told us. We said that we were prepared to debate and today we continue to say that we are ready to debate. The one that has changed is the People's Party, which has become an anti-system party that seeks only the easy applause of its own people and the vote of populism, but does not do real politics, which is what the citizens voted for and what they decided we were here for. We encourage them to join the serious and calm debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u166	Mr. Ramos, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u167	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Ramos. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken since the first Vice-Presidentship of the Government to end the situation in Spain after the state of alarm. [[File number 173/000077]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u169	We move on to the last item on today's agenda. Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be promoted from the first Vice-President of the Government to end the chaos in which they have plunged Spain after the state of alarm. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u170	With your will, Madam President. The main difference between the set of Organic Law 3/1986 on special measures in the field of public health, the General Health Law and the General Public Health Law and the Organic Law regulating states of alarm, exception and place is that the law for such states, which are of its extraordinary states, contains an appeal - of course, it is so in the case of state of alarm; to a greater extent in the more aggravated ones - to the centralization of power at the head of a single authority, which is that of the State. It states in its article 7 that only by delegation of the Government can it exercise that unique authority of the State in the territory under state of alarm, as delegate, the president of the autonomous community in the case of a state of alarm limited to the territory of a single autonomous community. This has not been understood by the Government. He did not want to understand this probably because of the commitments made to other political forces that support him, both in his government action and in this House, in the Senate and in many Spanish autonomous parliaments. He did not want to understand it and did not act in that way, so that all his action during the epidemic has been an action in which there has been no centralization, which has given rise to a headline who already quoted in some other intervention of the newspaper Le Monde in October 2020 that said: 'COVID-19: in Spain, the decentralized model of public health is a failure'. This is a failure observed by all Spaniards. All, including the Socialist Party voters and their governmental partners - probably those of some separatist party - would have wished for a centralized action to combat the epidemic, but this has not happened regrettably. We do not know what remained of that announcement he made at his first appearance before the competent Commission who was then Minister of Territorial Policy about the State increasing its presence and its action in the autonomous communities. He said it before the epidemic. How desirable that increase on the occasion of the epidemic would have been! It was a truly urgent demand, and I would dare to say that it was a demand that obliges the Government to reconsider these somewhat centrifugal orientations. However, that has not been the case. Paradoxically, that lady today is the Minister of Health and, in blind and irrational obedience to Moncloa's designs, has not done what she said she intended to do before the epidemic. Inexplicably, Members, Madam President, the People's Party already wanted to increase in 2020 the powers of the autonomous communities in this area to combat the epidemic, again against what the most elementary rationality demands for the fight against this epidemic and, I repeat, probably against the will of all Spaniards, shocked by the dispersion and chaos. However, the People's Party is committed to what it has called plan B, which is neither a plan nor nothing because it is simply an explanatory addition of a few lines in article 3.1 of Organic Law 3/1986. It is very pretentious to call this plan, but, in short, they call it that and insistently do so. Even last week, Mr García Eggea and Mr Casado referred again in this House to this plan B, which as soon as possible can be justified and without him speaks of this plan B. There is no such plan, ladies and gentlemen, there is what I have said. But I didn't say what I said. I have also mentioned in some other intervention the opinion of the Council of State of 22 March, issued at the high consultation of the Government on the constitutionality of the reform of the Welsh Health Act, which has said that all the measures contained or regulated in that reform are constitutional, except one, that of compulsory vaccination. As for the rest, which are measures to which we are all accustomed and which have been adopted in the states of alarm, in the three that have been, the Council of State has regarded them as constitutional. Interestingly, it is a law born in an autonomous community governed by the PP. It is then clear that the PP of Galicia or the Government of Galicia does not consider that there is a need for any plan B to legislate in the fight against the epidemic, at least in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because otherwise, if it had not been, it would never have promoted that law, so that here there is a difference of opinion, in my opinion, insurmountable, between what Mr Feijóo's Government says and what Mr Feijóo insists on in a machaconic way, but intellectually unfounded, the PP in Madrid. Well, this is not going to surprise us either, it is the usual deviation of the People's Party in these kinds of issues, especially when they are mixed with territorial interests, that if its barons, who if I don't know what stories, all of them - all of them - depend on a structural defect, to say the least, in terms of cursis, which is the state of autonomy, to which the PP has been surrendering with anchovies for many years, and has plunged Spain into a general chaos, aggravated in an epidemic situation like the one we are living. [[applause]] But it is also that the Supreme Court has just said the opposite of what the People's Party says, that is, that there is no necessary plan B. Judgment of 24 May 2021 in the Third Chamber, held yesterday. I understand that you have read it, but I do not think it was a careful reading, because today, in relation to a compromise proposal that we have put before you on your amendment to this motion, you have told me again that you were in agreement with all the measures, but that they had a legal plan, a legal plan that consists of those three lines of amendment of an article and that, as I say, the Council of State, the Supreme Court and the Third Chamber considers it totally unnecessary. Well, well, you continue to make legal plans and continue in that clumsy, ironically speaking, which has two consequences. First, they justify the inaction of the national government, which does not take measures at the state level to combat the epidemic. You're justifying it, saying you can't, when you can. Secondly, they help to petrify the fatal dispersion in the fight against the epidemic in Spain because of the power distributed among the autonomous communities. [[The Lord]] Finally, I would like to thank the Citizens' Group for joining our motion, by means of an amendment, on which there is a compromise, which improves the text that we had originally proposed. All the measures that we have proposed, therefore of consensus with Citizens, are contained in the written text and I will not repeat them at this headquarters. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u171	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Díaz Gómez is speaking first of all by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u172	Thank you, President. I come to say a bad thing and a good thing, and I'm gonna start with the bad thing. I recognise that when I read the text that VOX brings here today I did not understand anything, because the item on the agenda is a motion for urgent interpellation, that is to say that this comes from a debate that was held with a minister last week - specifically with the Minister of Justice - to talk about chaos, plan B and what came after the state of alarm. I thought I was wrong, and I started reading the question yesterday to see what issues were dealt with in it. Last week at that interpellation, there was talk about the state of alarm, its implementation and that they wanted the central Government to take over the full management. They talked about the government's abuse of the royal decree, even though they then give it all the power to distribute funds; they talked about reinstatement to work, and the motion they bring today deals with the purchase of vaccines, although the word vaccines was said in the interpellation zero times; they talk about borders, although the border was spoken zero times, the word does not appear; they talk about testing, but the word test was said zero times in the interpellation, and they talk about the control of the virus to those who come from outside, although the concept control of the virus was said zero times as well. That is, we are not faced with a motion resulting from an urgent inquiry, but we are faced with a motion resulting from VOX's need to make photosynthesis before the spotlights of today. So far so bad. I do not see this as a consequence of the urgent inquiry. Despite this, now comes the good part, the most important part, which is the proposed part of the agreement to which we have reached VOX and Citizens. Mr José María Sánchez de VOX, in addition to being a good speaker, is a good negotiator, and I say to you that we have reached very interesting agreements such as the compromise that we are putting to you now and that we will put to the vote. What do we ask now, what have we come to? We have substantially changed the initial points that they had, and we believe that this agreement should be voted on. With it we aim to boost the purchase of vaccines so that we do not get unstocked autumn, that there is a national plan for real vaccination, and besides, what we have done so far serves little, because the circumstances are very different. There is a vaccinated population, start a second cycle, we will live with new viruses, like the flu and virus that will come in the following months; we have to update the national plan - I would say do- because it is really a plan with many parts. We have to start massive tests. We did the seroprevalence study, which is the best that was done in the first stage of pandemic management, with which we know that we are able to do large-scale testing. By the way, we ask you in this motion to repeat a study such as that of seroprevalence, in addition to being tested massively in schools, in airports, in ports, in territories where there is a border. We also ask you to authorize the purchase of a test for self-diagnosis at once. This is a matter that is not the first time that we have reached an agreement between Citizens and VOX that we have been asking the government for months, and we do not understand why they do not consider it useful to buy tests for self-diagnosis in pharmacies. If someone wants to go see their parents who are older or their grandparents and stay calmer and it's safer to know that you are negative in a self-diagnostic test, so we don't understand why this isn't done. On the other hand, we have also agreed to strengthen the controls of the Carlos III Institute for Genomic Sequencing. What does this mean? Let us know at all times what the activity of the different strains of the virus is on national territory. And move forward with the progressive decrease in the use of masks. This is very important, because it also has a strong psychological element in the population. The fact that, for example, in the open air and when the security distance can be kept, the use of masks can be suppressed, and it is also important as a moral issue, because the Spaniards have complied with the law, the Spaniards have complied with all the restrictions that we have been imposing on them, because the Spaniards, like every great people, comply with their rules and laws, even though they see how the Government, lying beforehand and against even the Supreme Court, is going to pardon criminals for being political, and yet the Spaniards do, so many thanks to the Spanish people for this character, for being much better than their Government, for being much stronger than the Government and for the parties that want to break their nation, and for all this many thanks and live Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u173	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u174	Thank you very much, President. The VOX Group is presenting us with a motion to which we have tabled an amendment of amendment, and I regret, Mr Sánchez, that it does not take into account some of the aspects which are essential for my group, but I understand that, because they do not know the needs of the Autonomous Communities because they do not govern in any of them. [[One Member: Very well]] Ladies and gentlemen, the decisions taken by the Government, embodied in Royal Decree-Law 8/2021, are leading our country to genuine legal chaos, and which also leads to the courts of justice the duties and obligations of the Government itself, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable. The Government has been more concerned about lying to us during the pandemic, denying the first international alerts, mismanagement of the supply of health supplies, no coordination with the administrations: in the use of masks, in the delay in carrying out the tests and, most seriously, has lied to us with the actual number of people killed by COVID. The Government has not taken into account that we are still living with the COVID-19 virus, that Spanish people continue to be infected, that health professionals continue to be infected and, regrettably, that people -79,801 according to data from the Ministry of Health - are still dying, that we still have people admitted and that 1552 are in the ICUs. This is the current situation still worrying for everyone, except for the President of the Government, who announced the end of the state of alarm without convening a conference of autonomous presidents to coordinate measures against the coronavirus, and without giving a legal alternative in ordinary legislation in the fight against the pandemic. But, of course, he already beat the virus almost a year ago. Do you remember the ad in July? From the beginning of the pandemic my group, through President Casado, presented a legal plan - which you do not see, Mr Sánchez - to make a law of pandemics that will avoid the legal unrest and insecurity that exists in our country; the government has created that legal insecurity, which today is palmary. This very Monday we knew the rejection of the Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative Court of the Supreme Court to the appeal of the Government of the Canary Islands. Legal uncertainty that could have been avoided with our legal plan, demanded by most legal operators and even by the Council of State itself. But we are before a government that ignores the main opposition party, the autonomous communities, the courts and the highest consultative body, such as the Council of State. We are faced with a Government immersed in it is not, in chaos, to look at 2050, instead of solving the problems that are generating the biggest health, economic and social crisis that our country has experienced; to always go behind events; to the closure and control of airports; to the importance of diagnostic tests; to the control of new variants. The British variant, which in Mr Simon's words had a marginal impact and which ended up accounting for more than 90% of the infected, and the Indian variant, which he said was not a worrying variant, was of interest. And we also remain without effective control of ports and airports, without material and human means for such control after the emergence of new variants. Ladies and gentlemen, in the field of public health prevention is the key, the Government has learned nothing and we continue to have no public health network and epidemiological surveillance that includes real-time information from microbiology laboratories, in coordination with the National Microbiology Centre. About the vaccination plan, for when? Let's go for the seventh vaccine update, all very different, and I wonder, are you really going to pay attention to the recommendations of the EMA? Are you going to take into account the vaccine data sheet? The truth is, his strategy is chaos. Chaos and confusion with the second dose of AstraZeneca, passing the responsibility to about two million people who are awaiting vaccination. Anyway. Finally, this chaos of the Government is also present in the behaviour towards future candidates for a health training place, which instead of having real-time information, ask them to allocate their professional future. Yesterday a large number of them appeared in front of the door of the Ministry of Health asking for a fair and knowledgeable choice of all the squares. I ask the government to rectify this week, at your meeting with them...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u175	Mrs. Velasco, you must finish. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u176	...for the sake of the future specialists of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u177	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I was asking the VOX spokesman what the first vice president is going to do to avoid chaos. He will do what he always does: nothing, to say that the People's Party is disloyal and that you do not condemn gender-based violence, and that solves all the problems. But the government is already in chaos at the moment; but if the Spaniards who are affected by an ERTE do not know whether they will continue with the ERTE, they know that by 2050 they will not be able to eat meat. The Spaniards know that by 2050 they will not be able to travel by plane on two-hour trips, but the president travels by helicopter to buy the bread. Therefore, they are installed in chaos. The Minister of Finance tells us that she's going to raise taxes to all Spaniards because she wants to lower tax pressure. What to talk about the Minister of Justice who tells us that we must be or must pardon those who commit crimes, that we must understand that, and that is normal in a democracy. Therefore, the Government is installed in chaos and we see it with vaccines. But how can we have the government with more advisors in the world and now found millions of people in Spain who don't know what vaccine to put on, when they put AstraZeneca? No one wants to take responsibility, nothing is said. Now it turns out that it is the Spaniards who received this vaccine that have to decide which one they prefer. But how do you prefer it? Someone will have to tell you something! And then, it depends where you live, they tell you one thing or they tell you another, depending on whether they're stored in the fridge or not. And just in case, they get a document signed to take on that responsibility. So what do we want the Ministry of Health for? What do we want the advisors for? Why do we want so much expert if in the end each Spaniard has to decide what to do with the vaccine? It's just that this is nonsense. When the president said that the state of alarm was over, all the communities of the Socialist Party say: all right, you're right, Mr. President, let's end the state of alarm. And the next day they put the curfew, ban meetings, and ban people from leaving the perimeters, etc. So they take away the alarm state to reposition the same measures as they had with the alarm state? But what country do they live in? But don't they know that everyone here has some functions? It adds to the misconception when it turns out that this is done by all the autonomous presidents of the Socialist Party and some are allowed to do so - as is the case with Valencia or the Balearic Islands - and others are not allowed to do so. And then, we have before us the same Spanish rules under different conditions, because nobody here wants to take responsibility, but that is true, when they gather the blame for everything they must have an autonomous president who seems to have become a nationalist. It is said that the president of Madrid already acts like the nationalists, but I do my best to make sure that the English citizens come from all over Spain to my autonomous community, because it is the one that has the least cases, etc. Man, please! I believe that if something has made this matter clear, it is that we live absolutely in chaos, that the Government assumes no responsibility. For the only thing the government is doing - and this has shown it these days - is paying for those favors that it has to pay for being in the government, and the only favors that it is paying - and time is giving us reason - are the favors promised to two political parties: Euskal Herria Bildu, who promised him the bleaching, the rapprochement of prisoners to their prisons in order to be able to go out on the street, and Esquerra Republicana, who promised them the pardon. And the two things are going to be fulfilled. All the rest of the promises, drinking water. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u179	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u180	Thank you, President. Don José María, if any of us or any of us - from any other parliamentary group - had tabled this motion that you have tabled - probably in more baroque language -, I would simply call it a coddock. You wouldn't have any objection to putting us back and a half to say it was a doll what we had done. You made an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, certainly questioning, because you considered it a problem, and the central axis of your inquiry was legal chaos. If someone calls a minister - a government - for legal chaos and presents a motion resulting from such an inquiry, what should be presented would be alternative legal measures to put that legal chaos in order. You have not presented in your motion a single legal measure, nor a single legal measure. It has put five health measures, very little worked out, which it has not had any respite, in the compromise amendment that we have just passed to the rest of the parliamentary groups, in removing some of those that you had, I understand that by considering it decisive; for example, border control, which has disappeared directly. What is at the bottom of his question and his motion underlies, and what is at the bottom of this compromise amendment underlies one single reason: Spain one and great, pure and hard centralism. And they have removed one thing that existed in their motion and in the compromise amendment does not exist: anti-Europeanism. You said: centralize at the head of the government. And that's the point. In all the compromise amendment that we are asked to make, which is an encyclical of different health measures, not once are the words competent health authorities mentioned, not once are the autonomous communities mentioned. And this is not the existing competition regime, it is not the competent health authorities, and that is the link between Citizens and VOX that has led them to sign this transactional amendment. And, as you will understand, there is enough reason for our parliamentary group to vote against this compromise amendment, it is the only reason, it is the only reason, there is no other reason: to try to mess with the government, to say that there is legal chaos; then, some health proposals, that if they go well and if they do not go forward nothing happens. As far as measures are concerned, you propose the direct purchase of vaccines, obviating the European Union, in particular four vaccines. Now they already include the European sphere, because Citizens have asked for it; direct purchase, they say. Look, we're not at the moment of direct purchase. There is an alliance at European level. And, by the way, don José María, gives us as an example the title of Le Monde, that the Spanish State has been a failure in the strategy, for having decentralized it. Man, are you setting us an example of the results of the French state, with a centralized strategy? Do you think the problem was decentralization? At all events, it has been an unknown pandemic of a size that none of the States, regardless of the structure of competition distribution, has been able to cope successfully, of course in our near environment. You are considering the direct purchase of four vaccines. The existing European vaccine portfolio has been modified, he was told before the seventh update has already been made. And what if a new vaccine appears, we don't buy it? And if someone has to do it directly, if this will be normalized at some point, which is still far away, those who should have the ability to make that direct purchase and assume the competence of vaccination would be the autonomous communities, just as they are doing with regular and regular vaccination campaigns, such as influenza. As for mass test campaigns, they are doing them: test, test, test and test, in Euskadi obsessively, it doesn't matter that the photo can come out at a time with many cases, because it is the only way of early detection, but it has to be done by those who are doing them, what are the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u181	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u182	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I did not want to intervene, but I decided to do so because I wanted to tell you that I think you are an anti-system, I really believe, and I think it is for three reasons: firstly, because you are presenting today a motion resulting from an inquiry that has nothing to do with the inquiry you made a few days ago. And I think: but if the Rules of Procedure of Congress are absolutely clear that the motions resulting from the inquiry should serve for the House to show its agreement or not on the question that has been discussed during the inquiry of the previous week. Of course, the Rules of Procedure also say that the Bureau should not accept a motion resulting from an inquiry if it has nothing to do with the subject of the inquiry. But, well, I appreciate the generosity that the Bureau has had in this regard to let us discuss this issue which, I insist, has nothing to do with what you presented here a few days ago. But you are an anti-system for many reasons. [[The lady]] It is because, despite reading very, very, very well the legislation on competition issues, the most important thing has been skipped, which is that article 137 of the Constitution is very clear in what is the administrative and institutional hierarchy of the Spanish State, and you cannot avoid that there are autonomous communities that have competences and that must be able to exercise them. I imagine that the same pre-constitutional scenario seemed to you a little more comfortable, more practical at least, but let me recommend a reading of that article, Your Honor, because if not in the end one goes crazy, he doesn't understand anything. And you're an anti-system for something else. He said that what the government should do was to circumvent the European Union's early purchase agreements. But why are the agreements, Your Honor, if not to fulfill them? Why does the government make agreements, why does the European Union make agreements if VOX then comes and decides to fail, avoid an early purchase agreement for vaccines? Man, ladies and gentlemen, you come up and there's no stopping you! That is why, in case you had any doubt, we will vote against this issue. But the most complex thing after listening to his speech is that I think I understand that he blamed the central government for its mismanagement during this crisis, while asking him to take over the situation in all the autonomous communities so that we would all join together, and not just part of the Spanish territory would sink. I think I've understood something like that the state is one, and not fifty-one, with which we all sink here or no one survives. You will understand, Your Honor, that this does not stand up to, first, because, as I said, you have dealt with an issue in this motion which has nothing to do with the question of the previous week; second, because the agreements with the European Union are to be complied with, and third, because the Constitution itself shields autonomous competences in this regard. That is why, Your Honor, we cannot vote in favour of a motion resulting from an anti-system non-interpellation like the one you raised this morning here. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Márquez Guerrero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u184	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing a motion from the far right, which, as has already been said, is not consistent with last week's inquiry. In his inquiry, VOX protested at the end of the state of alarm and the supposed legal chaos that he would create, and today they intend to circumvent the early-acquisition arrangements of the European Union's vaccines. It has already been said here that changing the subject of the motion which is the result of an inquiry is not covered by the Rules of Procedure. But this trick reveals very well the incoherent and apparently paradoxical way of acting of the right and the far right throughout the pandemic. Those who voted against the extension of the state of alarm, whom they called constitutional dictatorship, then put the cry in heaven against its term and claim the sole authority. But this contradiction is only apparent, as is often the case with paradoxes, that they dissolve as soon as one perceives the internal logic that uses them, which in this case is simple: to attack and try to end the coalition government. And for this purpose, and this is very serious, you do not hesitate to act against the interests of the population, against the health of the population, and now I will explain why. You question democracy itself, because in the interpellation you questioned the principle of representativeness when you denied legitimacy to the Government, and now in the motion you question the rule of law, because we are faced with a decentralized state, with a balanced division of competences, as the Constitution says - it is difficult for you to assume - and yet there is no legal chaos. A few days ago, the Supreme Court has said that the current legislation is sufficient to cover all necessary health measures. Ladies and gentlemen, you did not want vaccines - even your education counselor from Murcia said publicly that she was not going to be vaccinated -; now it seems that you do ask for vaccines, that is, by circumventing the European agreements. And not so long ago you also argued that our country should leave the World Health Organization, which does not surprise us anything if we take into account that some of the measures that you put forward run counter to the recommendations of the European Union, such as, for example, separate purchases and the freedom to buy diagnostic self-tests. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we want to buy separately? I'll tell you right away. In this way, after having financed the industry with public money to produce vaccines, you want us to buy them at a much higher price than the agreement in the agreements. And what about self-tests? It has already been shown that it makes no sense to test indiscriminately, that the only safe measures are prevention and vaccination, that is, for all humanity, not only for certain countries or territories. Therefore, your measures, ladies and gentlemen, do not fix anything. That's right, it seems that VOX has become the commercial agent of the big pharmaceutical companies. I say this because you voted against the release of patents in the Eurochamber. They preferred to shield the great interests of the big pharmaceutical companies rather than create the necessary conditions for vaccines to reach all people. That is going against the health of the population. But all their inconsistencies and loyalties have an explanation. You are inflamed with that incendiary speech, full of hyperboles, insults, degradations. You know what's going on? They're trivializing politics. And you know why they banalize her? Because you can't talk about politics because you have no measures and no agenda. What are they gonna say to people? What do you defend foreign vulture funds, against the right to housing of all Spaniards? That they defend that the richest and the big transnationals don't pay taxes? That they defend private health, against the public, because they are going to close health centers and they are going to cut jobs? That they defend the concerted sex-segregated education? Or are they going to say that they are against inspection in the fields, so that the workers can be exploited? Your flag, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is not Spanish. His flag has a big one in the center with two vertical bars that cross it. Of course we will vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Marquez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Mejión Couselo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u186	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this motion, you, the VOX Group, are presenting an exercise of absolute incoherence with the initial inquiry. Mr Sánchez García said that the main subject was legal chaos, misuse of the state of alarm by the government. The Minister of Justice replied in his second speech, and it seemed that he had convinced them in something his answer, in which, by the way, the greatest denied them. But apparently, he convinced them in a blunt way. In fact, the operative text of the motion before us has nothing to do with that supposed legal chaos and only with measures relating to health management, to which, by the way, it has made no mention in its intervention, a change of orientation that shows the lack of legal support that had the position defended in its inquiry and reaffirms, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the capacity of the existing legal order to combat the pandemic. In good parliamentary logic, you should have declined to table this motion. But anyway, let's go to what we're dealing with, and I'm going to try to answer them point by point. On the purchase of vaccines, you know very well that the government is working within the European Vaccine Strategy and we welcome the joint purchasing decision. If anything has shown this pandemic, we need a stronger Europe closer together. And you know what I tell you? If Spain were not in the European strategy, you would now be blaming us for not having done so. [[Applauds]] As for preparing purchase contracts for next autumn, these purchase contracts are already being made, there are already active purchase options for Pfizer and Moderna, as well as other prepared purchase options, which will be activated in due course, and they know it. Border control - although you have already withdrawn it in the transaction - is being carried out and constantly, especially for travellers from countries at risk, demanding negative PCR or TMA. Massive and frequent testing campaigns are being conducted, yes, following technical criteria and the Strategy of Early Detection, Monitoring and Control, and, yes, in collaboration with the autonomous communities. As for the freedom to buy self-test for self-diagnosis, the amendment of Royal Decree 1662/2000 is being carried out to regulate the sale to the public, eliminating the prior medical prescription and advertising of self-diagnosis products for COVID-19, and they know it. And they know that this involves a process and that right now the allegations presented are being evaluated, that they will have to go to the General Technical Secretariat and then to the Council of State. As for the microbiological monitoring network, with early detection of variants, they are aware that this network exists, and, yes, also in collaboration with the autonomous communities. And the worst thing, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is that all of this knows plenty. But, of course, don't let the truth spoil a good arena for you. Having said that, which I believe justifies above all our negative vote on this motion, allow me to make a recommendation to you, and always from respect for people. You cannot make an idea of how tired we can be of the petulance of many, of too many of your interventions, of the prepotence and of the boasting that they distill. [[Applauds]] They just have to say: We are the way, the truth and the life. And, by the way, also the Holy Inquisition, because you are possessors, seems to be, the only true dogma. Do you think that's the way to ennoble our democracy? Or what they're looking for is to go back to other models, in which they may find themselves more comfortable? They share all kinds of good meats of bad people, patriots and antipatriots; they emphasize hatred in the face of diversity and deny plurality as common wealth; they knowingly manipulate the truth, without the slightest blush. What a barbarity! What a barbarity! What a barbarity! Is that really the country you're defending? [[Applauds]] Please make an examination of conscience, pain of sins, purpose of the amendment. And, by the way, it's good to say Madam President! That's it! Respect the Royal Academy too! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, when do you intend to regain the sense of state that is expected of you? Their disloyalty in the pandemic or in the crisis with Morocco are two good examples. They have reduced their principles to one, at the beginning Montoro: the more Spain falls, the better for the PP. Allow me a final piece of advice. Teachers teach our students four basic operations, but we may not insist on one thing: in life and politics adding and multiplying gives many more revenues than subtracting and dividing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Meijón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u188	Madam President... we have made a compromise... [[Rumors]] [[Rumors]] You are ignorant, rude and brute. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u189	I'm sorry, Mr. Sánchez García. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-26-CD210526.u190	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and with the agreement of the spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 26, corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. I would also like to inform you that the non-legislative proposals and motions will be voted on in person at tomorrow's plenary session, which will begin at 10 a.m. The meeting was suspended until then. Thank you so much. It was one and forty-five minutes in the afternoon.
