ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the item on the agenda for the debate on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime for the regulation of the exercise of voting by Spaniards living abroad. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u2	Good morning. When we act with loyalty, we must recognize it, and we cannot begin in any other way than by thanking all the parliamentary groups who approved to postpone this debate for a week when we are confined. But when we act with dirty play, we must also denounce it, especially among parliamentarians, because we should be exemplary in the face of the citizens we represent. It is precisely in this respect that our amendment to the whole is gaining strength. I am referring to the parliamentary groups represented in the Government which, when they presented the Loreg reform bill, knew perfectly well that the Republican Left had submitted a bill in the same direction. In fact, I would not be surprised to learn that they were in a hurry to see that we had tabled this bill so that their proposal to end the call for a vote would be sooner. So far I don't even have any problems; the problem... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u3	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Rosique. I'm going to ask for silence. Thank you very much. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u4	Thank you, President. The problem comes when they used the Government to make their bill, presented 48 days later, available for discussion before ours. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a dirty game, and we will not tolerate it. They have the luck or the misfortune that our convictions always pass over the dirty game and that we are foolish enough to fight in any of the circumstances to achieve our goals of democracy and social justice. Our proposal, which we are now discussing and which we will probably end up discussing also in the paper, is based on a similar basis, but with some nuances that we believe allow further progress in the effective democratization of the foreign vote. Our intention has always been to reverse at least the requested vote. At the time, when it was adopted, we had already voted against it, and since then we have been warning of the perversions that this system generated. Being forced to ask to vote before voting not only hinders the procedures, which are already complex, but is also undemocratic. In addition, we also believed and believe that this is an opportunity to improve the democratization of the vote from outside, facilitating the procedures and foreseeing the problems that are generated absolutely in each and every election. I am referring, for example, to the system of ballot papers, which too often do not arrive in many territories or are late because we have to wait for the proclamation of candidatures. In this respect, we make two interesting proposals which could be resolved. The first is that voters can write on a white paper to whom they want to vote, and I move on to issues that will surely be raised by their parliamentary groups. This procedure that we propose would be accompanied by a website with all information, external or separate from the Government, and flexibility in interpretation would be promoted. The second is that the documentation sent is received before the proclamation of candidatures; only in this way can we ensure that it arrives before the vote. It may seem anecdotal, but it is by no means anecdotal; without going any further, in the last Catalan elections, in the United States and Switzerland, the documentation arrived in full voting period, and in Washington D.C. it arrived three days after the elections; that is, they could not vote. Another absolutely necessary issue is to increase the days for counting. We cannot assume that throughout the world, especially beyond European borders, the mail system operates in the same way as in the Spanish State. There are cultural differences on holidays, hard-to-reach and poorly connected areas and public enterprises equivalent to poorly financed and understaffed Post Offices. This situation cannot in any case affect the right to active suffrage of citizens residing abroad. The Government has made a proposal on this, right, but ours means increasing the days even further so that the scrutiny will end by the end of the tenth day at the latest. Nor can these differences between States behave in any way that has to be paid to vote, as happened in the last Catalan elections in Paris or in Nice, for example. For this reason, our proposal also proposes that the free vote should always be ensured; if not, we would be making it impossible for all citizens to vote; that is, we would be promoting an anti-democratic electoral system. And we come to the star proposal of our amendment to the whole, which is a request that comes to us from different organizations and communities abroad, something that is already in force in many European States and that is shown as a model of success, both in the case of the external vote and in the case of the vote from the State. I am referring to the introduction of the delegated vote. Specifically in our proposal we have followed the French model, whereby a person who resides abroad permanently or temporarily may delegate his or her vote to a person of his or her choice who votes in his or her own electoral college. Another issue we have added is an extension of the voting period in the ballot box for the community abroad, pushing for the possibility of voting between the eighth and the second day, both inclusive. This would increase the opportunities to vote face-to-face for citizens to move in order to exercise their right to vote. I would insist that our proposal, above all, seeks to promote consensus in order to end once and for all with the requested vote, but we could still go further by addressing all the problems related to the census, some of them certainly raised in your government proposal. In this sense, good cleaning should be done, they should simplify records, automate some processes and unify criteria and processes. It is outrageous, for example, that to enroll in the CERA from Iceland you have to fly to Oslo. The community abroad has been doing so for too many years with this outdated and anti-democratic system, which, instead of promoting participation in elections, does just the opposite; it places constant impediments causing participation abroad to decrease after-commitment. He was seen in the Catalan elections in February and probably also by the parliamentary groups that are now running for office in the Madrid elections. The proposal that we have put before you today has the will to put an end to those major obstacles in which there seems to be a consensus on their elimination and, in addition, incorporates some new ones of which there are several examples of success in other European States, as I told you about the proposal for a delegated vote. We honestly believe that our proposal can be a first step towards democratizing the electoral system abroad. For Esquerra Republicana to promote and facilitate voting abroad is an absolute political priority, especially as long as there is no electoral system of its own in Catalonia, in which our comrades of the Catalan Parliament will obviously work intensively. And we cannot end up in any other way than remembering once again that, whether or not this amendment is adopted in its entirety and whether or not this bill is adopted, it will still be necessary to amend the Loreg as well. And I say this above all in two ways: firstly, to allow young people, over 16 years of age, to vote in the elections - as we have already proposed in the Senate, but in the PSOE there was an absolute rejection - and secondly, to allow migrant people to participate in the elections. Being a Democrat always involves being a Democrat, not just according to the electoral interests of each party. We hope to have your support for this amendment as a whole and also to have generated debate with our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u6	Thank you very much, President. Introduces Esquerra Republicana an amendment of the entire alternative text to the proposal for reform of the general electoral system for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad, and in respect of it we state on a preliminary basis that we will not vote in favour for the reasons that I shall then briefly set out. Firstly, because most of the changes suggested with respect to the initial proposal can be included without technical difficulty as partial amendments. I believe that they would only delay processing by means of an amendment of the whole, replacing one proposal with another. The second reason for not voting in favour of the initiative is that we do not share the legal and political uncertainty - key in any electoral process - that we consider to be introduced in article 96.1 of the Loreg when, in respect of the existing criteria for determining the nullity of the vote issued, the rule is that at all times a broad and flexible criterion will be applied in the interpretation of the meaning of the vote of each voter. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, such a clause, if adopted, would generate an endless amount of conflict, shifting a burden - first to the electoral administration and then to the courts - difficult to bear and ultimately social and political crippling electoral processes, which if something needs sine qua non legal and political security. A circumstance which is aggravated by the demand for an even broader and more flexible criterion, as it is literally said, in a new paragraph 6 of Article 96, when interpreting the meaning of the vote of each voter, which must be reflected in a telematically downloadable ballot. Finally, we do not share the view that in the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad, together with the current voting procedures in the ballot box and in the voting by mail, the delegated vote is added; that is, that an elector may delegate his right to vote in the ballot box to a citizen of his or her choice of the same constituency, with a duration of up to three years and for electoral calls held at that time, and without a citizen being able to exercise the delegated vote of more than three delegates. Ladies and gentlemen - and without going into great depths or into what is to be understood as a citizen of the same constituency - we believe that the delegated vote has no place in our order. Voting, ladies and gentlemen, is the vehicle through which the person influences the life of the State by deciding on public affairs, either directly through a referendum or by determining when choosing representatives the decisions of the bodies responsible for adopting them, and is characterized as a fundamental right by being universal, equal, direct, secret, personal and free. In this way, political participation through the right to vote is regarded, as another series of acts, as a very personal right because it is inherent in the person as such and only possible by him and not by anyone else in his substitution or given up, because the personality and indelibility of the vote is an irreducible principle of representative democracy, precisely in defence of the principle of freedom and security of both the voter and the electoral processes themselves. For these reasons, our parliamentary group will not support this initiative and the delegated vote, without invoking Article 41 of the Loreg or considering that the enigmatic provision of Article 75(12) of the Loreg - in the words of the Council of State - can accept it. In view of the above, and as I have already moved forward with the beginning of my speech, we will not give our support to the initiative we are debating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u8	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental purpose of this proposal for a law that we are talking about today is nothing other than the abolition of the so-called requested vote that was introduced, as you know, through the reform of the Loreg of 2011, supported and promoted by bipartisanism, PSOE and PP, and with the votes of its nationalist partners, Convergence i Unió, then, and the PNV. It is also curious that the PSOE is now a signatory to this bill against a system that he proposed or supported himself, but we are happy in any case that these errors are rectified. As my colleague Miguel Gutiérrez said in the debate to take account of this bill, which was held two months ago, there is nothing more anti-democratic than making it difficult for Spanish citizens to vote in any electoral process, and that is certainly what the requested voting system that was introduced in 2011. A voting procedure was imposed with excessively short and difficult procedures for the exercise of nothing more or less than a fundamental right recognized in our Constitution. And it was just after that reform that we referred to, when it went from a participation of more than 30% to one of less than 5% of Spanish residents abroad in the elections of the same year, and that trend, unfortunately, has not improved at all. Since the adoption of the reform, the levels of participation of Spaniards abroad in the elections have fallen dramatically, and that is no coincidence, as a result of these unjustified restrictions that are now intended to be abolished, and we agree with that. Moreover, since then the Spanish population in the foreign country has not stopped growing, with which the problem is more serious. That is why, and not without first warning that there are many other aspects of electoral legislation that need to be improved - and we will try to do so through amendments - we are in favour of the processing of this bill last February. What is surprising to us is that now Esquerra, after voting also in favour of taking into account that proposal for a law, is anyone who presents nothing more or less than an amendment to the whole. I don't understand how they explain this; I know they've tried to explain it, but there's no way to understand it. Maybe it's that you don't understand how the system works or really - and I think it goes that way - you don't care at all and you go to your thing, as always, or it's that you haven't even read the initiative. Moreover, it is nothing more than a compilation of partial amendments - an amendment as a whole is not partial amendments - which you will be able to table, if you wish, during the parliamentary procedure, but which shows precisely that you do not want this procedure to take place - that is an amendment as a whole - which gives you absolutely the same idea that citizens can vote with guarantees. You - and we know that - like elections in which you can vote two and three times, in which you count the votes yourself. We saw that and we suffered it in Catalonia; yes, yes, I suffered it, I lived it, I was there. And above you speak of dirty play!In addition, it is that you, Mrs Rosique, after criticizing the processing of the initiative, said here: What I care about is that it is approved. You said it here in this rostrum, and you voted in favour. How can you be so incoherent? Now you don't want it approved? Because that is an amendment to the whole, which does not want the initiative to be approved. Or is it that you do not want to work by submitting partial amendments to the procedure? Moreover, the electoral system criticises the party that is possibly most benefited by the current electoral system, in which, unfortunately, the vote of all Spaniards is not equal and which makes it easier for more parties that do not believe in Spain to influence the governability of Spain or that directly want to destroy it than national parties that have much more electoral support. And the sad thing is that the PSOE agrees to place the governability of our country in the hands of those parties. There is another issue of your amendment that I would like to make more specific, and it is the proposal that they make for a delegated vote, to which Mr Legarda has also referred. Perhaps it is the most personal of rights - I would even say of a citizen's civic obligations - to choose what he does with the greatest power given to him by the democratic system, but to do so in a personal way, deciding who to vote for or whether or not to do so. The delegation of vote opens up the possibility of trafficking in wills in exchange for dark and uncontrollable transactions and favours; a reduction in guarantees as few as we have seen, even more dangerous when it comes from a party like yours. We know what you would have done with hypothetical votes delegates in the last electoral processes, perhaps delegating to Mr Junqueras, who was also the one who wanted to count the votes. You are the ones who validate supposed elections in which, as I say, you can vote several times, count the votes as you please or appoint a tailor-made electoral union. They do not care at all - and that is so - that citizens can vote with guarantees. What's more, for you, the less guarantees you can better manipulate your results to your liking - and this is not to be expected, is that you have seen all of Spain - against the percentages that suit you and, ultimately, do whatever you want, regardless of what the laws say or, what is worse, what citizens think. To put in your hands, as you claim, any aspect of an electoral process, however small - because you claim that it is the autonomous administrations that regulate parts of the electoral process - is to promote fraud, because you are the clearest, most public and most obvious example of electoral manipulation that has occurred in Europe in recent years; you, Esquerra, from the Government of the Generalitat. No one, no one has recognized their electoral farce of 2017, so don't come here to give lessons in electoral guarantees to those whose leader is condemned and imprisoned for skipping the electoral guarantees of millions of citizens. Electoral guarantees and independence are like water and oil, and our vote, therefore, cannot be anything but a no to this amendment as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candamil has the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The position of the BNG is clear; we believe that people abroad must have the same rights and facilities when exercising the vote as when they do in their habitual place of residence, but also with the same guarantees. On the basis of this principle, we believe that the real revolution in this matter will be to guarantee the vote in the ballot box, in person, in embassies and consulates and in other spaces that guarantee easy access to people living in each country. This ensures the identification and deposit of the vote, and is then scrutinized at the corresponding electoral board in the Spanish State. Alternatively, in the event that it is not possible to go on the set day, we also have the possibility of voting by mail, and we think it appropriate to propose that the documentation be sent to all those registered for this purpose, this is to all those included in the CERA, but also to those of the ERTA who are registered in order to be able to vote, because that is another of the BNG's proposals and which we are putting forward in the process of amendments: that both regimes be equated, as far as possible. The BNG, however, does not share some of the proposals included in this amendment as a whole. On the one hand, with regard to the delegated vote, we consider that active suffrage is a personal and intransferable right. People-all people, also abroad - must exercise it in a personal way by identifying themselves faithfully in order to avoid manipulation and interference. From past experiences we know the misuse that could be given to this option and we cannot accept it. Look, with Galicia's historical emigration, in our case the CERA represents more than 17% of the electoral census - 400 000 people - and we have a broad and well-known history of manipulation by the People's Party of the migrant vote, which can be decisive in some constituencies in general elections, in Galician elections and, in particular, in municipal elections. [[rumors]] They will therefore understand that we cannot support this proposal. We also have doubts about the proposal for a self-filling paper model. Indeed, it would facilitate the procedures by being able to send the documentation from the very moment of the call, thus ensuring the arrival of the vote in time and form. However, it can create difficulties, to begin with interpretative, on the meaning of the vote. But we also believe that an unnecessary inequality is introduced which would be solved if the main system were the direct vote in the ballot box. On the basis of these considerations, we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u12	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to clarify to the spokesman of Citizens some of the issues he raised of non-guarantee in the referendum of October 1, 2017. There were guarantees, there was a union. What's going on? That the Kingdom of Spain put the sewers of the State at his service to try to boycott. But we vote and we will do it again. [[Applauds]] Having said that, in Junts per Catalunya, since the beginning of the legislature, we have been aware that a reform of the Loreg was necessary in relation to the vote of nationals residing abroad in three aspects: the abolition of the requested vote, the modification of the time limits of the procedure and the extension of the voting procedures. Existing legislation has shown that it contributes to diminishing the participation of this group in all elections by making it incredibly difficult to exercise a fundamental right. I have already detailed the data to you when we discussed the legislative proposal submitted by the government parties and, in short, 95.8% of Catalans were unable to exercise this right on 14 February, which shows that it is a non-guaranteed system in relation to the exercise of a fundamental right. While the two texts, the initial proposal and now the amendment as a whole, call for the deletion of the requested vote and the modification of the time limits of the procedure, the present amendment as a whole, from our point of view, improves the original proposal because the vote by mail and the vote by ballot adds the possibility of voting by delegation, which is an advance that we consider positive, but not sufficient, since Junts per Catalunya. Why? Because we are in the twenty-first century and in the twenty-first century we have a technology that can be used. If the Administration sends us notifications via telematics, if taxes can be submitted via telematics, if some procedures can only be made telematically and not on paper, if all this is the case, why can't all the documentation relating to the elections also be sent telematically? I'm not just saying, but living together the two possibilities. And if in the Courts we vote in this Chamber telematically - I have never understood why it cannot be done in the Commission and I always claim it - why is there no progress and the possibility of a fourth voting method, telematically voting in elections, also regulated? We do not propose that this should be the only mode, but that all four of them should live together: the ballot box, the mail, the delegation and the telematics. It would be the way for the Kingdom of Spain to enter the 21st century. The General Budgets of the State, which you have linked to the Next Generation funds, have items dedicated to the digitization of the Administration, in particular there is one for consular services. Also in the Plan SpainCan, or at least in the project of Spain Can and following the priorities of the Commission, both in the cross-cutting axes and in some policy lever, as in the tractor project, as in key reforms, talk about digitisation, the deployment of cybersecurity, the modernization of the Administration, etc., why does all this modernization of the Administration not apply it in facilitating the exercise of a fundamental right? Maybe that's too modern? Many times I have heard in this House and in committees that Spain wants to lead; it wants to lead many things. It is true that including electronic voting would not be a world leader, no, because there are countries that already do, but they would be one of the world leaders. Maybe it would be interesting to keep that in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the citizens we are, we must provide solutions to the problems, we must respond to their demands, we must facilitate and improve the exercise of the rights of all citizens. We will vote in favour because we believe that this amendment as a whole represents progress on the original proposal. Of course, in the parliamentary procedure of the text, which finally comes to the fore, we will be tabling amendments with the aim, as I said, of adapting the exercise of the active suffrage of residents abroad to the measures of the twenty-first century. By tomorrow, April 23, I wish you all a good Sant Jordi, day of the rose and day of the book in any of the idioms. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u14	Good morning, Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. On 23 February this House unanimously approved the adoption of a proposal for a law by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group, which brought a unanimous demand from all citizens, civil society groups, the Granate Sea and so many others, who have been living abroad and who have been struggling for years to exercise their right to vote. In short, it was unanimously approved, as I said, to eliminate the system of voting requested for those residing abroad. This means, and I believe that we all agree on that, ending an anomaly that hinders the normal democratic participation of hundreds of thousands of citizens in each electoral process. The participation data since the adoption of this reform - it has been said here today - are eloquent: it has gone from a participation of between 20 and 30% to lower participations of 10%, and moreover to these, let us say, poor results is added another evidence: the request for the vote implies a doubling of the administrative procedures to exercise the right to vote, which means de facto the existence of a different electoral regime for these people, who always have greater difficulties in exercising their fundamental right to vote. Comrade Lucia Muñoz said here: in democracy rights must not be begged, the administrations must guarantee them. Today, the comrades of the Republican Group are bringing an amendment to this bill in its entirety with an alternative proposal in which we believe that there are many issues that we can discuss in the parliamentary process, we can synthesize and we can certainly improve the rule, which is the objective of all and of all, and of course also of the Confederal Group. In any case, it is true that there are two issues in particular that seem to us to be procedurally controversial. Firstly - it has already been said here - that of the self-filling ballot. Our assessment of this issue is negative. Firstly, because we understand that the elimination of the requested vote, the extension of deadlines and the introduction of the downloadable ballot by telematic means already facilitate the external vote. And, secondly, because I believe that it is obvious - without entering into particularly technical questions - to anyone who has met and participated in an election table that a system like this we say will expand and derive in very large numbers of null votes, with the consequent harm to thousands of citizens. Secondly, what we consider to be the main differential with regard to the original proposal is the relative - and it has already been said - to the vote per delegation. We also say this with all the touch and affection to know that it is a proposal of the Republican Group, but that it is a proposal that have also put on the table different entities of civil society, the Granate Sea has also spoken about it. In any case, I will explain this with a clear question: in Galicia - the fellow member of the BNG has also said - we have systematically lived in the different electoral processes as it happens, both in Galician territory and abroad, 'correction' of votes and we believe that, of course, an issue like this would again arise and open the field to numerous irregularities and enormous democratic insecurity. [[rumors]] I said 'correction' of votes, I didn't point anyone out, no matter how much the People's Party takes for granted and intervenes without me saying that it is the right one who usually makes 'correction' of votes. [[applause]] Finally, we understand that the legislative proposal submitted by the groups of the Government adequately and sufficiently addresses the fundamental aspects which must facilitate the exercise of the vote and the democratic guarantee of compliance with this fundamental right: it addresses the availability of ballot papers in time and form, it delays the time-limits for scrutiny, it addresses the simplification of bureaucratic procedures and, above all - as has already been said here - it provides for the updating of the CERA, which is absolutely fundamental to ensure normal democratic functioning. Furthermore, we urge the Republican Group to reach agreements in the parliamentary procedure and we thank, as we have already done in our initial speech when this proposal for a law was debated, the collectives, the Granate Sea, the collectives of Podemos Exterior, of the United Left and of the different areas of foreign civil society, their work; they have been waiting and working for this to take place for a long time and I believe that in some way we must start the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible and put an end once and for all to this anomaly which prevented the normal democratic functioning of our citizens abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Zambrano García-Raez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, coming up to this rostrum and being able to address the House is an honour and especially as a depositary of the confidence of my excellent colleagues in the VOX Parliamentary Group. And it is also an opportunity to make a mention, to record some name or situation, and to remain in the Journal of Sessions and for posterity. And today I want to send our affection to Irene, that 10-year-old girl who, like other people, for approaching an act of VOX, has been assaulted by energetic anti-democratics. We hope and hope that she and her family will be well. [[Applauds]] I have mentioned anti-democratic, for we are now going to the initiative of the Republican Left, which seems to have been angry because they have been advanced in an initiative. Let's see. This initiative that we are debating today is a waste of time and a group is, of course, going to vote against it, but I have something to thank the proposing group. We have an entire Minister of Equality, with a budget of more than 450 million euros, who goes around making the ridiculous saying that all, everyone must be heard, heard and heard, speaks of daughters and children, and in these times of genuine kicks to the dictionary and grammar is grateful that they have accepted the recommendation of the Royal Academy and have used elgeneric in its text and have avoided the torture that I sometimes have to suffer when examining another series of proposals with such tiring inclusion of inclusive language. Moreover, as I said to you, this initiative is a waste of time, as it seeks to include in our legislation the vote delegated in the elections, as has already been mentioned, and little more can be added, unless we reiterate a number of issues. They want a person to be able to vote, in addition to himself, for up to three more people. Gentlemen, the right to vote is a very personal right, no one can vote for another person, that is common sense, and to raise that possibility in itself is already contrary to the most elementary democratic principles. This obvious proposition articles such as the 4th and 86th of the Loreg, but also the meaning of our Constitution in articles 68, 69, 140 or 23 and goes against the very concept of voting, a vote that must be exercised directly and personally. The vote is inalienable, it is not delegable, it is not transferable to another person and it is not a right that can be gifted, given, bought or sold. The proponents tell us that it is that with the delegated vote you will be able to vote more easily from abroad, but that is absurd and also lies. We are already dealing with the elimination of the requested vote and we can extend deadlines and add telematic support. The vote from abroad is going to be greatly facilitated by the way we are being dealt with. And, if the delegated vote were accepted, nothing would prevent such a possibility from being extended in the future until the vote became mere merchandise. This is an anti-democratic, absurd proposal that runs counter to common sense. It would lead to the legalization of absolutely undesirable fraud situations. You want, in short, to legalize that some people vote for others, that they decide for another the meaning of the vote, and it is essential in a democracy that the Spaniards exercise the vote directly and personally under the principle of one person, one vote. Please note that the right to vote is the basis of democracy, a fundamental and integral right of the most essential rights of the individual in the political sphere. Its characteristic is not only to be personal and non-transferable, but to have an egalitarian character. If you can entrust to another person, in highly rated cases, the management accessory to the vote, the management of instrumental acts, but never the issuing of the vote itself, never the political decision of the meaning of the vote. For this reason, our legislation in some cases seeks that one person collects some documentation for another, but will never vote for it. What our electoral legislation needs is another type of reform, precisely in the other direction. What we need are rules that put obstacles to electoral fraud - as I said in this rostrum in the previous debate -; to put a stop to fraud such as the purchase of votes that are issued by mail, a kind of fraud that, for example, the PSOE turned into a custom in Melilla and for which he has been sentenced to two years in prison who had there as a leader. [[Applauds]] This proposal for a delegated vote portrays the concept that proposers have of voting itself as an object, as a thing that can be seized or transmitted. It's an absolutely undemocratic concept. No wonder it comes from the republican left, which has already given ample proof of being an absolutely alien group to the most elementary constitutional principles: a group that defends ideological indoctrination in school, which has been promoting hatred and illegalities for decades to achieve political ends. They may make this proposal thinking that this delegated vote can be used by those coup characters who are fleeing justice. No need; tell them to come to Spain to vote, that they will no doubt be given the reception they deserve. In short, this proposal must be rejected and the reform of the Loreg must continue its ordinary procedure in order to facilitate voting from abroad, avoid fraud and avoid the purchase of votes, quite the contrary to what you are actually insinuating in your proposal. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Zambrano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you, Mrs. García. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in reviewing my years of parliamentary life, it has not been easy for me to find an example of inconsistency such as the one we are dealing with today: that the same group should one day vote in favour of taking into consideration a proposal for a law and in the following days present an amendment of the whole with an alternative text against it. That, in fact, does not have many parliamentary precedents nor is it serious, Mr de Esquerra, and less so if that amendment responds to that competition that you have with the PSOE and the United States We can see who was the first to register in this legislature the initiative of suppressing the requested vote. I am sorry to disappoint you, because it was the Galician Parliament, with an absolute majority of the People's Party, that called three years ago, in 2018, for the abolition of the system of voting requested in the external voting procedure, a Parliament in which you, Mr Gómez-Kingdom, have no representation. [[shows a document]] [[applause]] And you know why? Because the Galicians didn't vote for them, that's all. So keep the banner for the next race between you, because in that suppression we all agree. What we do not agree so much is the need to preserve the voter's identity guarantees, especially in voting by mail, something we are going to insist on the processing of this reform. You know why? Because we are talking about the exercise of a nuclear right in democracy, the exercise of an individual and fundamental right such as the right to vote. And that principle of voting personality clashs head-on against your unusual proposal for a delegation vote, which you are developing in a complex procedure that I would like to summarize. First of all, according to you, the elector who wants to delegate his vote in the ballot box - because by mail he could not - must automatically download an administrative form from a web enabled for this purpose or go to collect it printed to the embassy. After that, you must fill out the form, indicate precisely the census data of the citizen who is going to exercise his/her vote per delegation and sign it. Finally, he must personally go to the embassy, ask the ambassador or the consul for an appointment, who will review the delegation document once they have verified that the requirements and the agreement of wills between the empowered and the powerful are met and then forward it to the Electoral Census Office. For you, this operation could be repeated up to three times, and so, with your proposal, one person could vote four times: one for himself and three for the people who have delegated their vote to him. Of course, those other three times will be able to vote whatever he wants because there is no provision for a mandatory mandate to vote, among other things because there could not be one. That is to say, if we accept your proposal, we will move from banning the massive management of votes, which we have considered among all the fraudulent groups, to allowing the selective management of votes. There is a universal principle in every democracy: one person, one vote. For you that principle does not apply, for you one person is equal to one vote and three others. [[Applauds]] And in case that was not enough, they have no idea other than that one person can not only vote for others in specific elections, but can also do so in all elections that take place within three years. The truth is, I don't know what number three had given to whom he wrote such a demeanor. [[Laughter]] But do you not realize that this proposal is a genuine legal and democratic dislate? Are you not aware that the delegation vote has no place in our parliamentary tradition or in our Constitution? I know that the latter is the same for them, but it has no place; it has no place either between deputies and senators because it is expressly prohibited by article 79.3 of our Constitution, nor between citizens, since it is manifestly contrary to the mechanism for the exercise of fundamental rights of an individual nature. And not content with that, to this proposal for a delegation vote you add as new another proposal, in our opinion, wrong, and is that instead of sending the voters printed ballots or an information sheet for them to download telematically, you intend to send a blank ballot to be filled out by the voters. That proposal is not new, we had a debate on it two legislatures ago, and we rejected it because of the possible errors and confusions that the voters might have in completing the ballot, which could lead to the nullity of many votes. See whether they are aware that this negative circumstance could occur, that they intend to fix it by giving maximum flexibility to the electoral boards to give validity to such votes cast from abroad, even if they contain all kinds of errors, forgetting something fundamental, and that is that they end up giving different interpretative criteria to define when a vote is valid or when a vote is invalid depending on whether that vote has been cast by a Spanish resident in Spain or a Spanish resident abroad, which runs counter to the principles of equality and legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. And you will wonder, is there anything salvable in your amendment to the whole? Well, look, to the extent that we extend the time limit for voting in the ballot box in consulates and embassies to seven days, we totally agree, and you know why? Because that is exactly the same measure that the People's Party proposed two legislatures ago: increasing voting days and voting places to generalize voting in the ballot box. That is our great bet and priority on this issue.What do you want us to bet on in addition to the new technologies for access to certain electoral documentation? All right, but also maintaining the traditional means of sending documentation for voting because, ladies and gentlemen, there are older people who are not used to managing these technologies, there are people living, in those countries, in the countryside or in rural areas where Internet access is not guaranteed and there are people who do not have computer equipment at home. That's why you're suppressing the petitioned vote? Yes, the People's Group will say yes, but without any guarantees. Looking for a procedure that facilitates the participation of our compatriots abroad? Yes, but to facilitate the participation of all, not to select who we want to vote on the basis of their place of residence or their age; of all, Your Honor, not just of one side. That is our commitment to the Spaniards who live outside our borders, but who feel Spain at heart, a commitment and proposals that we will transfer to the subcommittee that has just been created to address electoral reforms in order to achieve the consensus that must govern any electoral reform. You're not staying for us, Your Honor. And, Mr de Esquerra, for what you have proposed in your amendment, it would have been better if you had saved it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Casaro has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u20	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Political pluralism implies that the objectives that we set ourselves in our commitment to citizenship converge in the spaces of institutional representation and are diverse. Our political action must make us work to reach meeting points and fulfil our representative role if we do not want to disappoint those who trusted us. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues on which we disagree, but the need to correct the democratic anomaly of the requested vote and to guarantee the full exercise of the right to vote for our compatriots abroad is one of those few objectives with which we have shown broad consensus among the political groups. Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group, on several occasions we have deplored the anti-politics that the right-wing side of this House maintains. Citizens ask us to exercise the best policy and to agree to respond to their needs. In this sense, the repeal of the requested vote seems to be an oasis in the desert of constructive spirit in which we are all because we have all agreed that we must give a rapid and guaranteed response to the Spaniards who decided to build their life abroad for various reasons, but in many cases for lack of opportunities here. We must therefore put an end to the tremendous injustice of limiting the exercise of a fundamental right, which is also the highest expression of democracy, because, in fact, seeing the very low rates of participation, the requested vote has limited democratic participation. If we make a historical review of the activity in the General Courts for the suppression of the petitioned vote, we find the paradox that the broad consensus is repeated over time, but the desired suppression does not come after a decade of an unjust model that we maintain today. And yes, Mr Espejo, this parliamentary group was part of the reform that in 2011 amended the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and implemented the petitioned voting system, but we immediately realized that, wanting to have done something good, we had constrained political participation and since 2012 the Socialist Group has been denouncing this situation and working to reverse errors. Since then, our commitment has been to establish a system of voting abroad that eliminates the maze of bureaucratic procedures that our compatriots face in trying to vote, and I say to try, because even by doing so, the proper issuance of the vote is not guaranteed. It is our duty to ensure the fullness of this right while giving full legal certainty to the voting process. We have recognized the mistake and worked to reverse it, because only then can we apologize to the citizenry, the last time my comrade Pilar Cancela from this rostrum, who also exemplifies with his commitment and work in the suppression of the petitioned vote, because to build the way we have to walk. And yes, we were in the creation of the subcommission for electoral reform that in 2017 it was proposed to reform article 75 of the Loreg and in the work that, with the help of the group of experts and a negotiation process between political groups, ended in a legislative text inspired by the lines agreed mostly and from which we started in the proposed law that we presented to all of you last February 23, consensuses that have been reinforced with the approval in the Senate and in the Congress of initiatives in which we have sent ourselves to legislate to eliminate the requested vote and with urgency, because we are already quite late. And one such initiative was the non-legislative proposal put forward by the Plural Group and discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last October, in which you, Mrs Rosique, said: if we really consider ourselves to be democrats, we cannot prolong this situation any longer; therefore, we believe that it is very urgent. At this point, this plenary unanimously approved two months ago the consideration of the proposed law reforming the Loreg for the regulation of voting by Spaniards living abroad. In line with the political position your group had held throughout this time, Mrs Rosique, you voted in favour; that is why we do not understand this amendment as a whole. It is not understood why it is not constructive to present a full amendment to a text that is getting, with which it is falling, to add all the political groups to the need for it to be taken into consideration for its processing; it is not understood why they are delaying parliamentary work so as to allow us to put an end to the requested vote as soon as possible - two months already -; it is not understood why to present and discuss their contributions can be made in the process of submitting amendments to the joint text, and it is not understood why, in the end, this amendment to the whole is amending the plan yourself, because if you really believe that we cannot prolong this situation further, you should leave the over-action and put forward the modifications that your alternative text introduces in the presentation that is constituted for the study of the proposed law in the Commission. This would be reasonable unless your priorities have changed and the demands of your partners on the Catalan right make them mark priorities that you already know are contrary to the Spanish legal order, such as the delegation of the vote. We have indeed tried to understand the reasons for registering this alternative text on 24 March, and I believe that contextualizing with the date is significant. It is not understandable from the point of view of parliamentary work, so the reasons are probably to be found elsewhere, and it is certainly a change in the order of its political priorities, marked by the formation of the Government in Catalonia. Mrs Rosique, you ended your words in this plenary session on 23 February. You said:... 'today we vote in favour of your proposal because it is urgent to discuss it and to end, once and for all, with the requested vote...'. So, because of the improvement in our democratic quality, I suggest that you resume your priorities and get on with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in five minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, take those seats. We begin with the votes. No-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on a plan of political measures and actions by the Government to combat the precarious situation of young people. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; in favour, 59 plus 74 telematics votes, 133; against, 38 plus 67 telematics votes, 105; abstentions, 5 plus 99 telematics votes, 104.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u23	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE) in common (CGE) on the defence of democratic values. [[File number 162/000625]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u24	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the defence of democratic values. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 240 telematics votes, 342; 63 plus 130 telematics votes, 193; 39 plus 105 telematics votes, 144; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u25	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u26	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the Government's plans for the use of land and facilities currently outside the scope of its function and, in particular, the La Remonta farm in Santander. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 102 plus 239 telematics votes, 341; in favour 102 plus 214 telematics votes, 316; abstentions, 25 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u27	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, so that the Minister of the Interior will report on the assumption of political responsibilities for the succession of scandals, irregularities and convictions affecting his department. [[File number 173/000067]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u28	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Minister of the Interior to report on the assumption of political responsibilities for the succession of scandals, irregularities and convictions affecting his department. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 103 plus 240 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 39 plus 112 telematics votes, 151; against, 64 plus 125 telematics votes, 189; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u29	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO COMPLETE THE DEVIATION OF POWER IN THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. [[File number 173/000068]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u30	Motion resulting from urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to end the diversion of power in the Ministry of the Interior. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 103 plus 240 by telephone, 343; in favour, 38 plus 112 by telephone, 150; against, 65 plus 126 by telephone, 191; abstentions, 2 by telephone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u31	The motion for urgent questioning is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u32	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Vote on the amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for an organic law to reform the Organic Law 5/1985, of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, for the regulation of the exercise of the vote by Spaniards living abroad, presented by the Republican Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 103 plus 240 telematics votes, 343; 25 telematics votes; 103 plus 212 telematics votes, 315; abstentions, 3 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-04-22-CD210422.u33	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was ten and fifteen minutes in the morning.
