ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u2	Mr Sánchez, even if you come here a little, you should know that the control session is to answer what you are asked. Today I will raise three very direct questions. Are you the equis of the Ghali case? [[Applauds]] I mean, have you ordered an individual to be allowed in search and capture for genocide, terrorism and rape? Answer, because you must know that if you use your office to evade a judicial investigation you commit a cover-up crime and if you make a decision knowing that it is unfair, you commit a prevarication crime, and this is very serious. As much as he pays Laya with a European office, Calvo with a commission and Marlaska with impunity to keep coming up, it is his responsibility. Second question: Did you order to distort the INE's economic forecasts to square the budget with Podemos? Answer, because you must know that lying to the Spaniards with the recovery and to Europe with the reforms is very serious. Because of it, we are the country of the developed world that has lost the most GDP and employment and that will take longer to recover it. [[Applauds]] It is shameful to see ministers fighting in public for pensions, labour reform, minimum wage or light. Put order in that cricket cage at once. And the third question: are you going to keep your word to bring Puigdemont to Spain or are you going to continue to torpedo justice with pardons here and with the State Attorney's Office outside? Because yesterday Aragonès said he would force the state until he accepted an independence referendum. Just for that reason, you should stand up from that independence table and make an international campaign to ensure that Spanish justice is respected in all countries. It is clear, Mr Sánchez, that your project for Spain is to remain in power, even with those who want to break it, but with a minimum of respect for Parliament, answer these three questions now. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not know if you have noticed, Mr Casado, but I believe that the Spaniards, whether from the right, from the left, from the centre, from the north, from the south, from the islands or from the peninsula, are up to the crown of the scorn, from the insults and from the screams you utter in this Parliament. [[Applauds]] I'll answer your question. Your question is whether this Government and I have a project for Spain and the answer is yes. What we want is precisely a fair economic recovery. This is a Government that has faced the greatest pandemic in the last hundred years of human history and I believe that we have done so in a more than reasonable way. Yesterday, an international index placed Spain as the second safest country against the COVI, thanks precisely to the success of the vaccination process that we have had, to health professionals and to the example of our compatriots. Therefore, Your Honor, what we do is useful politics, and the useful policy is to move from abstractions, which on many occasions the Spaniards listen to us in these Courts, to concrete things. Yesterday, for example, what did we do? We approved the increase of the professional minimum wage, we approved an aid to the island of La Palma, we approved the extension of the ERTE until February 2022. Your Honor, we are doing politics for the benefit of the citizenry because if the pandemic has been suffered by all Spaniards, economic recovery must reach all Spaniards and, in particular, those who have suffered the most and are more vulnerable and need political shelter. That is what we are doing, Your Honor, a useful policy, to make Spain move forward in the face of this pandemic and we would like, Your Honor, for the People's Party and you too to hold your shoulder and help, for once, your country by doing things that I believe are from Perogrullo, which is to comply with the Constitution, to comply with democratic legality. You lost a vote last week to try to change the way judges were elected to the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, accept that you are in a minority, that you have been defeated in the ballot box and therefore comply with the Constitution and democratic legality. Abandon, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional interference. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u6	Mr. Sanchez, who is silent grants. You believe above good and evil. He comes here and doesn't answer anything. I will ask you again: did you allow the entry of a person persecuted for rape, genocide and terrorism into Spain? Yes or no? Did you order to falsify public accounts to square a radical budget with hammers, yes or no? Are you going to press for a coup in Spain to be judged and to defend justice and not to pardon, yes or no? If you are not willing to defend Spain from criminals and the economic crisis that you have worsened, go and let others do it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u8	Yesterday we saw, Your Honor, that you were defending returning to the 2013 pension counter-reform, and in this game of yes or no, I will ask you, Your Honor, are you in favour, yes or no, of revaluing pensions under the CPI? [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u10	Are you in favour, yes or no, of validating the pension agreement between social partners in these General Courts? That's what you have to answer, because that's what the Spaniards deserve. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE GOVERNMENT KNOW THE ACTIVITIES OF ALL OF THEIR DEPARTMENTS IN THE INTERNATIONAL FRAMEWORK? [[File number 180/00659]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u11	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u12	Good morning. Is the Government aware of the actions of all its departments at the international level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, yes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u15	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u16	Are you sure, Mr. Sanchez? Because I see that they have worked very hard for many years to make us all believe that there was a conflict between the Catalans, that the independenceists were the terror of an exemplary Spain. They have beaten us, imprisoned us, sent us to exile, we have the mobiles illegally intervened to many and even accused us of terrorism, but the hunt, detention and release of President Puigdemont elThursday in Italy has changed everything. That's why I asked you the question, Mr. Sanchez. The Spanish judiciary, the Spanish judicial and police institutions, which abandoned fascism, the Spanish deep state, has given you a pulse, Mr Sánchez. They are the ones who decide what happens and how in Spain, do not decide you. What we have seen these days is, in the mouth of Italian journalists and Spanish journalists, a putifero. [[Rumors]] The prestige of Spain and the confidence of European partners hangs on one thread and, what is the most progressive government in history doing in the face of this toggled coup d'état? Take advantage, surrender to that fascist power and collaborate with it when it has agreed. They have invented a fictitious dialogue as a solution to the problem in Catalonia. So they have the Catalans quiet for a few years and at the same time can still use Catalonia as an excuse to scratch votes to the right. This dialogue table is just your smokescreen and the one on the right, even though they're crying all day long. This table, as some say, is not the solution to the repression, the expoliation and the bullying suffered by the people of Catalonia. The problem of Catalonia is not the result of the ballot box; the result of the ballot box should not be a problem in a democratic country. The problem is all of you, your deceptions and your cowardice to face a reality that is being eaten day by day. We can't negotiate with you because you don't rule and you don't decide. The dialogue table, Mr Sánchez, should do so among you, among the Spanish. Dream Catalonia free! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u17	Mrs Nogueras, I think you have used some terms absolutely inadequate for the decorum and dignity of this house, as I recalled yesterday. I just let you remember that and I don't want to interrupt the control session anymore. [[Mrs Nogueras i Camero calls for the floor]] No, I'm not giving him the floor. [[Rumors]] Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the truth is that I find it very difficult to answer and when I was listening to her, the truth is that... I'm gonna tell you a personal story. I've been a basketball fan for so many years. I'm a long way behind the American basketball league, the NBA. Right now there is a problem in the NBA and this is the following: there are a number of players who have expressed opposition to being vaccinated. And there is, precisely, an NBA star who says that you don't want to vaccinate because there's a conspiracy to vaccinate black people and connect them with a computer that has a satanic plan. This is true, this is textual, Your Honor. What am I getting at? For, honestly, Your Honor - and I say to you with all due respect and affection - you do not believe what you are saying here today, in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] Spain is a democratic country, we have a social and democratic state of law. Your Honor, there are the international rankings; I don't say that as president, the international rankings say that. And I will tell you one thing, Your Honor. You speak of many percentages, but there is a percentage which is that 80% of Catalan citizens want an agreement, want dialogue and do not want unilaterality. And that 80% is precisely what this government is defending. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ASSESSMENT DOES THE CURRENT POLITICAL SITUATION IN SPAIN? [[File number 180/00648]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u19	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u20	Mr Sánchez, fortunately, the pandemic data is getting better and better by vaccination and we are slowly recovering some normality. But the Spaniards still have concerns and one of the most important now is the return to the school of the children and all that implies: huge spending on families, problems to reconcile, concern for the quality of the education... Tell me, how do you think your education policy has benefited the Spaniards in order to improve these problems?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u22	Well, Madam President, the truth is that your honor is asking me about the current political situation, at least that's the written question I have. I have no problem answering your question about the educational situation. If I tell you one thing: last year we had no vaccines, there were no European funds; today we have 80% of the target population, fortunately vaccinated with a full schedule. Then, in September last year, citizens, parents - like myself - did not know exactly what academic course our children and daughters were going to have and, fortunately, we are from the countries of the world where 99.5% of the classrooms have remained open. That has logically been thanks to the educational community and let me at least say that also to the planning made by the Spanish Government. [[Applauds]] On the education system, I would like to say that we are actually implementing the new education law, which we have already put in place the vocational training law, with an increase of 200,000 places by the year 2023, we have already offered 120 000 with the autonomous communities and in last year's General Budgets of the State, I believe that the commitment made by this Government for scholarships, which benefit 850,000 students, demonstrates precisely that we believe in equal opportunities, that we believe in quality public education and that what we are doing among all, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely to strengthen and update the education system of our country because it is going to be a priority and fundamental to improve the employability of our young people and to give them a better future. I don't know if with this, Your Honor, I answer your innovative question. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u23	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u24	You must be the only president of the world who thinks that talking about going back to school in September is not talking about the current political situation. This September millions of Spanish families are paying at once 600 euros, 1000 euros, 2000 euros - according to the family - in textbooks or other materials for the course, in plates, dining room, out-of-school... And to this huge expense we must add other concerns: what level of English will our children learn in school, whether there are no cases of school harassment or bullying in school, with whom the children will stay at home if they get bad, and more knowing the little impulse you have given to teleworking. These should be his Government's priorities, but why aren't they? Because these issues you address from the education law, that law that causes less quality of teaching, less effort culture, more sectarian ideology and, yes, more divestitures of separatism. And why? Because their partners are Rufián and Otegi, who, when negotiating, ask nothing good for families, but ask for pardons, rapprochements of ages or impunity for Puigdemont. Since you may have the temptation, like other members of your party, to talk about German politics and the pacts that each one has, I remind you that socialists in Germany come from a great coalition with conservatives, which neither of us has ever wanted to do in Spain. And, above all, remember that you had the extended hand of the Spanish liberals and, instead of taking it, you took the hand of Bildu and Esquerra, the most xenophobic, insolidary parties that most attack democracy in Spain. Therefore, beware of comparisons with Germany because you can go wrong standing. I expect that your response will not focus much on all these concerns, but in Spain we will not advance in education or any other important issue for families until these chanchullos with the separatists are abandoned and big state agreements with state parties are made. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u25	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u26	The truth is that I have always felt the open hand of the Spanish liberals, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] It catches me sarcastic. In any case, look, we have increased the paternity leave from four to sixteen weeks; we have reduced the age to qualify for unemployment benefit for over fifty-five years up to fifty-two years; we are going to finance around 225 000 places, as I have said, in vocational training; up to twenty-five degrees will be created in three years; the budget for, for example, minimum living income has made 800,000 persons receiving that minimum living income right now; 21,000 places will be offered throughout this year from 0 to 3 years, thanks to the State General Budgets; 2000 million euros in scholarships, 850,000 students benefiting from them; an increase in the child allowance... And, indeed, speaking of bullying, these General Courts have passed a law on the protection of children and young people. Your Honor, with facts we have shown that we are pending... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u27	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES YOUR MANAGEMENT CONSIDER THAT OF A GOOD MINISTER OF ECONOMY? [[File number 180/00653]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u28	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u29	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, forty-eight hours later - I repeat, forty-eight - you spoke to us about robust growth and about ratifying the macro table that has to serve as the basis for the State's General Budgets, the INE - your INE- revised downwards the growth of the second quarter from 2.8% to 1.1%. Never in the history of the INE had a correction of this magnitude been carried out. You have left behind the credibility of this country and of the Spanish economy. But that reality doesn't spoil a headline for you. That's called propaganda and manipulation. With all our positive energy, Mrs Calviño - as you like - either you do not know, or you do not want us to know the Spanish, but in any country in Europe the Minister of Economy would have resigned. [[Applauds]] Do you consider her management to be that of a good minister of the economy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u31	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I'll tell you what I said last week. We have had a well-known, well-respected and three-part economic policy for three years: fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms, looking to the future. And, truth be told, that its leader calls this economic policy 'radical', attacks common sense. An economic policy and principles that have also guided the response to the pandemic, and that explains why the exit from this crisis is very different from that of the previous financial crisis. This explains why we have avoided a massive destruction of employment, that we have protected the incomes of families, that we have also protected our productive fabric and that we have a basis for a recovery that, yes, Your Honor, is underway and very strong. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u32	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u33	Madam Vice President, if we are radical, what is it for you to be radical? Is it radical to rule with the communists? Is it radical to have Bildu or the Independenceists as partners? I think you're quite confused. But today you should not leave here without answering a question: do you maintain the 6.5% growth forecast for this year, yes or no? Because it rains on wet. You started by announcing a growth forecast of 9.8% and four months later you had to reduce it down to 6.5%. You are like the driver who goes the other way, but who considers that it is all the others who go the other way. Do you really think that what the Bank of Spain, the INE, Brussels, the main study services think, are the wrong ones and that you are right? Don't they obey the reality of the data and you obey Mr. Sánchez's wishes? In the first quarter, we fell twice as much as the euro's economies and in the second half, which has put us at the back of the recovery. This is not pessimism, this is the reality of the economy. Look, Mrs Calviño, you are already up to Pedro Solbes, the worst minister of economics in history. And you know how it's gonna end too? Writing your memoirs and recognizing your foresight errors. [[Show the book Memories: 40 years of public service.-Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u35	Thank you very much, President. Over these three years we have experienced many upward and downward revisions of the various agencies. I have also been listening to your calls to my resignation for three years, whether or not there are revisions, whether or not there is a pandemic and whatever the economic situation. Last week we saw a downward review of the INE and upward reviews of other agencies. The INE, by the way, is not mine, it's an independent organization. I know you have no respect for constitutional institutions, but... [[protests.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u37	... Still, be careful what you say in this Chamber. All this highlights the difficulty of statistical work, particularly in this pandemic situation. For this reason, the government has had a line marked by prudence, without giving bandages. [[Laughter]] And that is why he also appreciated very positively that the president of the INE has indicated to me his intention to set up a technical working group with other institutions to analyze the message and the best fit of the extraordinary indicators they have used during the pandemic period, to improve methodologies and to improve our collective ability to predict what is going to happen to the economy. What is clear, Your Honor, is that 2021 is going from less to more, that recovery is underway, that it is strong and that citizens know very well what the situation is and what this government has done since March last year. In addition to criticizing and saying that everything is wrong, what do you propose, ladies and gentlemen? I do not see any alternative proposals that could help in any way the interests of Spanish citizens. It is not understood that a government party is in constant anger, insult and indiscriminate attack. To help the country, it does not serve its attitude.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: ARE YOU COMPLETED PLENARYLY WITH YOUR CONSTITUTIONAL OBLIGATION TO SUBMIT TO THE CONTROL OF THIS CAMERA? [[File number 180/00649]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u39	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased that the Government has decided today to accompany us in this monitoring session. [[Laughter]] I say this because last week, the first one you attended, Madam Vice-President, in your capacity as President of the Government in office, your Executive committed unprecedented contempt for our democracy. The Government that closed the Congress of Deputies during the epidemic had only the second control session after more than two months without questions from the opposition, and the Government hardly appears. There were only six ministers; six, and that's telling you, Madam Vice-President, although you actually only answered one question and then disappeared, leaving several questions in the hands of other ministers, including mine. Are you fully complying with your constitutional obligation to submit to the control of this House?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u41	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u42	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member, indeed, I am glad that he already realizes that I was there last Wednesday, because the other day, in a parliamentary appearance, he did not even know which members of the Government we were here. [[Applauds]] The truth is that we are the most controlled government in the history of democracy: every week we are under parliamentary control, as it cannot be otherwise.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u44	I personally have appeared in plenary on forty-six occasions, ten times in committee and twenty-two times in the Senate. So, frankly, your question is not understood. I was here, all the questions were answered properly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House and, as always, as every week, we are delighted to be able to explain to all Spanish citizens what we are doing for their benefit. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u45	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I see that you are acquiring the worst vices of politics. You're already hiding the reality. Look, in every human organization, whether it's a government, a basketball team, or a company, there's something you can't see, and yet it explains very well the group dynamics, how they work. I am referring to corporate culture, customs, group practices, how one has to develop and relate to others, to members of one's group or to the outside world. Corporate culture is usually printed by the leader. Do you know what corporate culture this government is developing? That of deception, that of concealment, that of lying. You're proving it today. It was so since the first day that Pedro Sánchez formed Government precisely with those with whom he said he would never do it: with the florets, with the communists, with all the enemies of Spain. But note that it is not only Pedro Sánchez who is contributing to that climate of deception and to that corporate culture, you are also contributing to it with what you just said about what I said last week, or with an inexplicable deception to your colleagues at last week's Council of Ministers, that Council that you presided over for the first time and in which you said literally, and I quote: there is no precedent in the recent economic history of Spain for such a rapid recovery of activity and employment. Madam Vice-President, it did not take forty-eight hours for the National Statistical Institute to dismantle its triumphalist macroeconomic picture; a triumphalist macroeconomic picture with which you intended to debut before the Council of Ministers. You've lost your credibility to the first. Any technical knowledge you have is being absolutely overshadowed by the shadow of the lie that you are already beginning to practice as a good policy in which you are becoming. Look, if you can't even trust each other, how will the Spaniards trust you? We'll only get ahead when we leave them behind. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u47	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u48	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I will surprise you: I totally agree with you. Corporate culture depends on the leader and the President of the Government what has marked us here is responsibility, rigour, respect and country sense, and those are the principles that guide this Government. [[Applauds]] We have been working on these principles for three years, these are the principles that we reflect here every week, realizing and explaining what the Government is doing for the rest of the Spanish citizens. And I, in fact, believe that these principles - rigour, responsibility, respect, and trust - are those that should also guide the opposition, that every week what it does is an absolutely destructive speech, a speech that does not take into account what citizens care about or what we are contributing to citizens and, above all, does not correspond to the harsh situation we have experienced in these nearly twenty months and the challenges ahead. Your Honor, as I have told the People's Party, get out of your corner and start hoisting your shoulder and helping the rest of the Spaniards and the people as a whole. Help Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT AMEND THE BORRATOR OF THE AUDIOVISUAL LAW BY ESTABLISHING MINIMUM PERCENTAGES IN CATALIAN LANGUAGE AS CALLS THE CATALAN AUDIOVISUAL SECTOR AND THE GENERALITY OF CATALUNE? [[File number 180/00645]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u49	Question by Mr Gerard Álvarez i García, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. Good morning, Madam Vice President. Will the Government amend the draft audiovisual law by setting minimum percentages in the Catalan language, as demanded by the Catalan audiovisual sector and the Generalitat de Catalunya? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u50	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u51	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, as you know well, the audiovisual sector is immersed in a very important process of structural transformation. Digitisation, the entry of new competitors, is leading to absolute change within the framework of competition and citizens also have different access to content, with an exponential increase in demand and different modes of distribution. In this context, I believe it is important that we have an audiovisual law that is adequate, that allows us to respond to this new reality, that allows us to continue to protect, of course, the co-official languages and that responds to our legal obligations, the transposition of the Community directive, the various reports that we have received, among others, from the Council of State, and listening very carefully to the different points of view, including, for example and of course, that of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u52	Mr. Alvarez. Mr ÁLVAREZ I GARCIA: Thank you, President. The words are fine, Madam Vice-President, but we want facts. If there is no clear negotiation and the terms demanded by the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Catalan audiovisual sector are not accepted, we will vote against the law proposed by the Government. Look, we're not asking for anything complicated; the demands to modify your draft are simple, logical and just. It's not a minor issue, Madam Vice President. For Catalonia, having an audiovisual law that ensures survival and production in Catalan is indispensable to safeguard the future of our language. 5 % of platform revenues such as Netflix, HBO or Amazon Video in own production is a very low percentage, taking into account the percentages, for example, of Italy, with 14,5 %, or France, with 20 %. We claim that by 10% half is allocated to the co-official languages of the State. The platforms also take into account translation and doubling in co-official or'minoritarian languages, but it is not enough. Audiovisual production in Catalan is very important for the future of the sector and our language and we cannot allow it to be lost in any way. It is no barbarity; it is a claim from the entire Catalan audiovisual sector. Are you going to turn your back on them? Are you going to turn your back on the claim of an entire country? The languages and languages of the world are culture, enrichment, education and identity. The Catalan is ours and we will never let it get lost. I repeat: the protection, production and distribution of the visual content in Catalan are priorities for the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia and for the Catalan audiovisual sector, and we will fight for a law that guarantees their true survival. Madam Vice-President, they want to exterminate the Catalan; let us hope that you do not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u53	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u54	Your Honor, as I have pointed out, we are adapting the text to the report we have received from the Council of State, which is the framework that guides us to the finalization and adoption by the Government of the project, which of course will then have its parliamentary procedure. But I am clearly interested - and took the glove you have launched - in emphasizing the importance we attach from the Government to all the co-official languages of the State. This means that we care and want Catalan, but also elvasco, also Galician and also Spanish, which is the language that unites us and which really allows us to have such a powerful role in audiovisual production worldwide. And I am more ambitious than you, Your Honor, is that I do not want the Catalan audiovisual sector to survive, as I do not want the audiovisual sector of the whole of Spain to survive. What I want is to boost the audiovisual industry; I believe that if with the current regulations this industry, including Catalonia, has already had a very important growth, with the new audiovisual law we have even more potential to grow; we have the potential to attract investment from the major international platforms and, above all, to boost national production, with a very important capacity to generate jobs of very high quality. Therefore, within the Recovery Plan we have put in a package of important investments, which is precisely called Spain, Audiovisual Hub. That is why it is important that as soon as we adopt that bill, which - as I said - we will deal with here in Congress listening to all points of view, and that is why it will be essential that we deploy as soon as possible the rest of the elements of the Recovery Plan, including those investments that can enhance one of the levers of recovery in our country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u55	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED GARCIA EGEA THEODOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND SECOND PRESIDANT: WHAT IS THE LEVEL OF BENEFITS CONSIDERING THE SECOND PRESIDENT THAT THE PRIVATE ENTERPRISES SHOULD BE ABLE FOR THESE TO BE NOT 'GROSSERS'? [[File number 180/00654]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u56	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, it's not the People's Party's banter, it's the government's banter. [[Rumors]] For the moment, the only joke we are seeing is that of your minister Díaz with Mr Escrivá and that of Calviño with Mrs Díaz. Discuss whether or not they have said that seventy-five should be retired. Of course you, who do not stick or nail, can retire to the hundred, but the self-employed and the hoteliers who are on the street, that's something else. You should step a little more on the street. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Díaz, you're used to throwing people away. He's already left Alcoa's tossed and now he's leaving the Spaniards tossed. Why didn't you come to work last week? Are you ashamed of your government? Don't you want to face the ugly management of your government? Or didn't the PSOE people let you answer? Because, two weeks ago, the PSOE government and Podemos took steps to lower the bill for light. Today, two weeks later, the Spaniards again pay for the most expensive light in history. We warned them that their ideas were useless and they didn't listen to us. The Government has therefore failed in its attempt to lower the bill for light. Its leader asked for a minute of silence for the victims of energy poverty when the light rose by 8%. Now that you have risen by 200 %, you will agree with me that what you all have to do is shut up. Among the excuses you've been putting in ask to end the gross profits of some companies. I would like it to be precise at this point, not like Mr Sánchez, who for what he has done today, better not come. What has to be the benefit of a company to be rude? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u58	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government. The Vice-President: Thank you. [[Diaz Pérez]] Your Honor, I will explain this to you: when there is a great gulf between the costs of production and the profits of these companies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u59	Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u60	For example, the 425,000 euros that Venezuela paid to Monedero, is that rude or is that the usual minute of the game? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] For example, having a government with 23 ministers and 1200 advisers, while the Spanish cannot pay the bill for light, is that rude or upbuilding? For example, you and your party - you, Mrs. Díaz, and your party - have placed a friend in Enagas charging 140,000 euros a year on a revolving door, is that rude or is that a normal salary for Podemos's positions? Is paying your assistant in black, Mr. Echenique, rude or is that something that's okay? Mrs. Díaz, after the gross profits of the Podemos in their passage through politics, instead of prolonging the Communist Manifesto, you better prologue a book by Warren Buffett. Because now you may not answer, talk about Putin, Rajoy, the European Union, but always remember that, with you as vice president, tonight, at 21:00, you will be paying 200 euros per megawatt/hour and inflation, the CPI, has just risen by 4%. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u61	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u62	Mr García Aegean, I will answer your question, which seems quite serious to me. Look, we also talk about gross profits when four large companies concentrate the benefits of them and there are a multitude of families in our country who can't cope or have difficulty paying for the receipt of light. [[Rumors]] Mr García Egea, I will give you a figure, which you can compare in Eurostat: the profits on sales of Spanish electricity are 18.5 %, the European average is 10.5 % and the German average is 5.6 %. But I will give you another data that is from the Banco de España: the profits on sales of Spanish electricians in relation to all the companies in our country is double. I guess you'll be worried about this. The average of a Spanish electricity company in profits triples the average of a German. I'd like you to think about why. Surely you agree with me that this is a problem for Spanish families, who only lose purchasing power, and also for small businesses that lose competitiveness. Mr. García Eggea, I finish with another data I gave him the other day: they are not only profits, they are also dividends, and in this company whose last batch sold the Popular Party, the public company Endesa, for 7 billion euros, its shareholders have pocketed in ten years the cold of 27,641 million euros in dividends. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u63	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u64	I already understand why you are asking this question and which side you are on, but let us defend the people and our country as we are doing, and you keep doing electric lawyers. [[Rumors.-Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u65	Thank you, Madam Vice President Monday. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMICS: HOW DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE SOCIAL DIALOGUE IN EMPLOYMENT POLICIES? [[File number 180/00650]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u66	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, from the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u67	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. A Member of your party sits in this House, Mr Alberto Rodríguez - please, Your Honor, say hello to the Spaniards so that they know who I mean - that he is being tried by the Supreme Court for kicking a policeman during a demonstration. Do not misunderstand me, the Justice will determine whether he is guilty or innocent, but his party has led a new unacceptable attack from the Government of Spain on a basic institution of our democracy - from the Government of Spain - as they have done with the media, as they have done with the monarchy, as they have done with the Judiciary, because that is Podemos: violence and destabilization. The accused, today clinging to his seat and his hanging, like Podemos, has denounced that the entire prosecution is a police assembly. So, answer today in this Chamber, Minister of Labour - because that kicked cop is also a worker - is it true, as his party claims, that the police draw up lists with visible profiles to accuse them of crimes and that when there are social mobilizations the police pulls from those lists to make assemblies? Is that how you understand social dialogue and employment policies? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u68	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u69	Your Honor, let me tell you that the philosophy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy and this Government as a whole is social dialogue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u70	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u71	I thank you for the precision, Minister, but the specific question I am asking you is whether that social dialogue is understood by the Communist Minister of Labour on the basis of kicks. And my question is pertinent for two reasons: because you are Minister of Labour and today you have the opportunity to protect a collective of workers, public servants, who have been accused by your party of making police assemblies. But it is also relevant, because you have been a direct witness and have been a regular in this kind of social mobilizations where your party partner and party complain that the police make montages. You can't claim ignorance. Minister, pay attention to me for a moment. Remember this picture of not so long ago, from the year 2019? [[Show a picture]] Some Spaniards may not remember it and seeing this image doesn't even recognize it, so it will require that the woman who appears.... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u73	... in this image, looking aggressively at the National Police, it's you in 2019. In fact, he was summoned to declare as accused by these facts, by attack on the authority, but he also saved his status as a deputy - the caste - and his stifling. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u74	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u75	So, minister, answer: does that social policy, that social dialogue, understand it on the basis of kicks? Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u76	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u77	Your Honor, there is a great gulf between you and me, but I am still a Democrat and I will answer the question that you have actually recorded. [[Applauds]] To date, this Government has exactly twelve major agreements in the framework of the social dialogue. By the way, the last of them, very recent, has to do with the most effective social protection mechanism that we have had not only in any crisis, but in the history of democracy in our country. A mechanism that has been called ERTE and has served to defend millions of workers and has served to defend more than 550,000 companies. Look, Your Honor, if it had been for your party, the workers today would have been fired and the companies down. You have not even had the dignity to vote and accompany - accompany - the Government of Spain with your votes. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán shows the photograph again]] And look, Mrs Olona, it is not only a vocation of the Government of Spain, it is a constitutional mandate. Article 7 of our constitutional text places business institutions and trade unions in a central position, and it does so because it understands that this means strengthening democracy. But not just that, Mrs. Olona. Although you and I have a profound difference, you must understand that social dialogue serves democratic coexistence. [[Mrs. Olona Choclán shows the photograph once again]] Let us discuss those who are different, those who think different and - that is - those who share a common will. I have doubts that your party has a common will. You don't talk to anyone; you don't talk to the press, you don't talk to the government, you don't talk to political parties, you don't talk to unions, you don't talk to employers. You have a conception of Spain, if you will, very small, in which only you are fit. It is not up to me, it is not up to the Government of Spain, it is not up to anyone. Mrs Olona, join the social dialogue and learn from the social partners in our country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JUAN DIEGO REQUENA RUIZ, IN SUPPORT OF THEGEA GARCIA THEODOR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND PERMANENT SECOND THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S INTERVENTION ON THE MARKET IS THE BEST SOLUTION TO DOWNLOAD THE FACTURITY OF LIGHT? [[File number 180/00634]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u78	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Juan Diego Requena Ruiz, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u79	Madam Vice-President, your interventionism is expensive, your signals impoverish the Spanish. First, with the Climate Change Act of 20 May, the price of light rises by 245 % over last year. Secondly, with the national electricity system sustainability fund of 1 June, the price rises by 252 %. Thirdly, with the draft law on CO2 compensation of 3 August, the price rises by 290 %. Fourth, when we can register your law to set up a public energy company on September 2, the price rises by 317 %. Fifth, with Royal Decree-Law 17, i.e. its tax on the sun, wind, water and nuclear, of 14 September, the price rises by 350 %, and today the price will rise to 200 euros the megawatt. I don't know if you realize what pattern this is following, but you go from failure to failure, to total failure, in the name of social justice. In the face of radicalism that closes companies, in the face of interventionism that scares investment, the solution is the People's Party. We have put forward an alternative to their dogmatism: to abolish forever the value tax on the production of electricity, to reduce VAT permanently, to remove non-energy costs from the bill and to reduce the price of electricity by CO2. We have discussed our proposal for a law on six occasions and presented Europe's first hydrogen law. I mean, another way of doing things is possible. But, Madam Vice-President, on the unilateral path to the destruction of the economy you will remain alone. That is why I ask you: do you consider government interventionism in the market to be the best solution to lower the price of light? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u80	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u81	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Before answering your question, I would like to ask you a methodological question back, because since words are never used in an innocuous way, when you talk about interventionism, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about, what is it about? Do you differ between the price of international matters, European regulation and national regulation? If you answer this to me... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u82	Quiet, please. Mr. Requena.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u83	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Instead of using the time to ask me, use it to explain to the second vice president that it was Felipe González who started the sale and privatization of Endesa and Zapatero who culminated it. The question I have already asked you was answered by the second vice-president and she said that the government was loyal and Europeanist and accused Mrs Díaz of interfering with prices is the worst thing that can be done. I assure you that the antipathy that you generate quotes in the pocket of the Spaniards, whom you are impoverishing. And let me give you a piece of advice, Madam Vice-President: get to work once and for all on lowering the bill for light, which today is at its peak. And don't think you're right about the facts. It may be thought that he is an energy genius, but the reality is that his only merit is to enjoy protection, for the moment, presidential. Only in this way is it understood that you have not followed the path of the seventeen ministers who have fallen into disgrace. By the way, welcome, Mr. Ábalos. Let's give it time, it'll all go away. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u84	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u85	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the clarifications, which I believe are self-explanatory. The bill, which is what citizens pay, has not risen 189 euros per megawatt/hour. The bill is reasonably controlled, despite the international rally of the... [[a Member: What is reasonably controlled?- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u86	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u87	...prices of gas and raw materials, thanks to the government's decisions. I'm glad you're talking about interventionism. I suppose you do not refer to interventionism when you propose to intervene in the General State Budgets and the tax system, transferring the fixed costs of the electricity bill to the General Budgets. [[Applauds]] I suppose you do not consider it interventionist that Mr Nadal will determine the reasonable profitability of each of the Spanish plants in the State Official Gazette. I suppose you do not consider interventionism to prohibit the closure of plants which not only failed to comply with European law but were not profitable and whose owners wanted to close. And I suppose you don't consider interventionism imposing a sun tax. I believe that all these measures, which characterized the Government's action by neglecting the position of consumers, are far removed from what this Government has done, which has been concerned about consumers; which knows that we need investments; which knows that there is a high-level gas price rally that cannot be transferred to consumers; which knows that it needs to temporarily suspend certain taxes, and which knows that it must simultaneously work to speed up the energy transition, to facilitate that prices are stable, fixed and reasonable for consumers, including industrialists. All this is what we have done, including, as you have heard many times, recovering some of those extraordinary benefits associated with the gas price rally, or establishing reasonable rules for the use of water resources in the production of hydroelectricity, or protecting vulnerable consumers in a special way. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WILL YOU RESPOND TO THE CHANTAGE OF ELECTRICS AGAINST GOVERNMENT AND CITIZENSHIP? [[File number 180/00628]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u88	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Third Vice-President, just two weeks ago we had a joint statement from the Nuclear Forum. For those who don't know, it's just the cover or the name of Naturgas, EDP, Endesa and Iberdrola in what has to do with nuclear energy. In it it threatened to stop nuclear power plants in order, thus, to raise the price of light more. But just a week ago, Iberdrola, in a communication with her shareholders trying to explain the price of the light rise, minimized it with pearls like this: how much does that cane we consume daily? And all of this he was doing while he was talking about confiscating this government. Yesterday - and they have remembered it - the price of the light reached 189,90 euros the megawatt/hour. For people to put it too, this is four times more than in 2020 or on the same day of 2020, a year ago. In the face of this reality, and in contrast to the previous question, because we believe that the Government has little involvement in this matter, what we are asking is very clear: will it respond to the blackmail of electricians against the Government and citizens? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u90	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u91	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I believe that the obligation of this Government is to build a proper functioning of something as basic as this country's energy system and to ensure the correct protection of consumers and price stability. We therefore believe that we have to take the measures that are considered at every moment, even in exceptional situations such as the one we are experiencing. I believe that those demonstrations made by the electrical industry are a huge mistake. Obviously, they cannot only intervene in the terms in which they were announcing, but they are far removed from the situation in which we are. I believe, at the same time, that the best recipe is precisely as I have just told your colleague, speeding up the energy transition so that we can eliminate the distortion caused by the price of gas in the electricity market and, at the same time, calling for decisive action by the European institutions, as we have been doing for months. And I have the impression that in that we agree with the vast majority of Spaniards, including, as I say, putting consumer protection above the interest of the extraordinary profits of companies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u92	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u93	Madam Vice-President, on the objectives you have pointed out, we have little to do with it. The problem is that this does not translate into facts, it does not translate into tangible realities for citizens, because they see that their reality continues to be struck by the greed of the great electrics, because these great electrics have not stopped making money in any of the years, neither pre-COVID, nor COVID and, probably, not post-COVID, and they do and get it because they do know how to dominate the electric market, because they do know how to generate conditions of advantage in any negotiation to keep that privilege. It is likely that citizens are very surprised when they see that for such announced recovery funds, such as European funds, these same electrics are claiming from the government or are competing for more than EUR 50 billion. But what do they have to recover from if they have never lost? What do they have to receive public money from if they have only made money year after year? And I believe that it is relevant to know what the Government is going to do, as it is also to know what the Government is going to do in a very recurrent case, and that is that every time an electric woman, one of these big electrics in the electric oligopoly, is convicted of some wrongful act, the amount they pay is ten times less than what they have obtained with that wrongful act, then shows little punishment for what they have achieved. I'll finish with a question. Many people probably do not realize, but there are those who see that in this management of oligopoly there is a correction of the elites to alleviate the inefficiency of the opposition to attack the government, and they do so seeking to weaken the pockets of the people, because they know that inflation will rise by inflation, they know that rising inflation will probably raise the euribor and they know that rising the euribor will raise mortgages and people will live much worse. That's why there are more and more people who, tired of waiting...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u95	Thank you very much, President. Mr Matute, I would like to make three comments to your question. The first is that the Recovery Plan places special emphasis on this transformation of the energy system, starting with the small. We want five hundred thousand new solar roofs in two years, we want two thousand local energy communities in less than two years, we want to generalize a much more efficient model, with rehabilitated housing that allows us to reduce the bill of domestic consumers and also of institutions, and I think this is key in the energy transition in which we are and in the reduction of that space on which electrical and energy companies as a whole build their business. The second point is that, in fact, we have seen with some concern the letters sent by some of the electricity companies to the industrialists, to the domestic consumers and even to their workers; we have heard of this. It is likely that the review of tariffs would have raised it even before the adoption of these measures, but we want to understand what they are doing and why, because we think that this announcement is not justified and we believe that if there is some kind of problem, it cannot be something that harms neither the industrialists, nor the domestic consumers, nor obviously the workers, with whom we have an obligation to talk to understand what is happening and how we can react. And the third issue that I also think is crucial is that we are in a complex years of global energy transition. That is why concerted action at European level... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHERE DO THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE 'GHALI CASE' AGREE? [[File number 180/00655]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u97	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation. Question by María Valentina Martínez Ferro, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u98	On 16 April, in the midst of a growing tension between Morocco and Algeria, his Government decided to smuggle the leader of the Frente Polisario into Spain. Ghali did not pass entry control or passport control and was registered in a public hospital under a false name. These three criminal acts have been qualified by Mr Sánchez with a 'we did what we had to do', a phrase more peculiar to El Padrino than to a government president of a consolidated democracy. What exactly did they have to do, openly show that the decisions of the President of the Government may be above the law? Well, they're not. And if not, let them tell Mrs Laya, who will have to answer to the justice of a decision that we all know - you too - that was not yours. That illegal entry was decided and coordinated by Pedro Sánchez. It was Moncloa who spoke to Algeria, it was Moncloa who knew that Mr. Ghali had a case pending at the national hearing, it was Moncloa who decided to land at a military base of an autonomous community... [[Mr President of the Government leaves the Chamber.-Protests.-Various Members: Don't go!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u99	Quiet, please! Mr. Hispan, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u100	... governed by the Socialist Party, to be picked up in a private ambulance and transferred to a public hospital of another autonomous community, also of the Socialist Party, and all with police escort. It was Moncloa who decided, first, that everything should be hidden; then, that everything should be denied, and finally that Mrs. Laya should be stopped. Tell me one thing: if everything was legal and was done for humanitarian reasons, why did they hide it? Minister, you have a golden opportunity to demonstrate this state policy that you preach. It must be consistent and accept the committee of inquiry proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group. Make it clear: do you accept it? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u101	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u102	The Government of Spain, Your Honor, is in compliance with the law, and I am fully confident that it has done so in this case as well. That is why I would ask you to respect the work of civil servants, diplomats, the military, the health care workers, and not to come here to cast a shadow of suspicion with a single objective: to obtain political revenue. Because these officials, these diplomats, these military personnel, these health care workers, are the ones who, also under the leadership of the Government, have achieved a country success, as was the hub of Torrejón, and they are the ones who are going to achieve a success for the country next year 2023 at the NATO summit, under the presidency of the European Union in Spain's turn. But, above all, be careful, do not happen to them as with the 'Delcy Gate'. Do you remember? [[Laughs.-Protests]] They've been bringing here for weeks...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u103	Mr. Hispan, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u104	He said they were bringing in all kinds of charges, which were then filed without trial because no one appreciated any evidence of crime. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u105	I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u106	The matter is in the hands of justice, but here there is a political responsibility that needs to be clarified, because today this matter affects his ministry, the defence ministry, the interior ministry, the vice-presidentship, the minister of education and the socialist president of La Rioja. See if it is clear the responsibility that they have decided that it is the Law of the State that defends this case in the courts in a new chapter of partisan use of the institutions. You know why? Because that's the way to defend not La Ya, no, that's the way to defend Sánchez from Laya's truth. If they did what they had to do in compliance with the law they have nothing to fear, minister, do not hide, accept the commission of inquiry and avoid becoming another complicit minister, because there are no firewalls possible when the pyromaniac is in Moncloa. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u107	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u108	You again cast suspicion on the actions not only of the Government, but of public officials whose commitment to the State and to Spain is beyond doubt; now, on the Law of the State. The Government respects the professional and technical criteria of State lawyers, as well as all State bodies and officials, and the Government always acts in accordance with the law. I am convinced that it is best to allow the State's Advocate and the judiciary to work under technical and professional criteria. But you are not interested in the truth, you are interested in obtaining political revenue, even at the expense of extending doubts about State officials and State institutions; going through Europe extending the doubt about judicial independence, about the arrival of funds to Spain. But lose all hope, they will not succeed, because the Government is placing Spain where it must, in Europe, in the United Nations, within NATO. The President of the European Commission herself, not me, Ursula von der Leyen, said it beautifully with the President of the Government and the President of the European Commission in Torrejón: Spain, under this Government, is an example of the soul of Europe, of the best values of Europe. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARTA ROSIC I SALTOR, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT REQUEST THE OFFICER OF CATALAN IN THE EUROPEAN UNION? [[File number 180/00630]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u109	Question by Mrs Marta Rosique i Saltor, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u110	Thank you, President. The survival of the Catalan language worries us because it is part of who we are. The Catalan language is a symbol of popular resistance. An example of this is his survival despite anti-Catalanism during Francoism. It is a tool of union in the face of any other discrepancy. The language equals us, is the basis of communication, allows us an intercultural dialogue. It is our heritage, it links us with those who fought and with those who will fight. It is an opportunity for participation in society, about decision-making to the citizenry. It's a cultural richness. Better to speak two languages than one, right? And as we are concerned about its lack of protection we ask ourselves: will the government ask for the officiality of Catalan in the European Union?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u111	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u112	Your Honor, the Government considers the linguistic and cultural richness of Spain to be of great value and always defends it inside and outside. As regards its question, Spain at the time requested the official recognition by the European Union of all the co-official languages. It did so under socialist government as early as 2004 and the Council of the Union then pointed out that the treaties currently in force do not allow this and that the co-official languages of the Spanish State cannot, therefore, at this time be official languages of the European Union because achieving their official status entails a reform of these transfers. In view of this legal situation, however, the Government of Spain, because it believes that this cultural and linguistic wealth must be protected, is doing important work to ensure that Catalan and the rest of the official languages in other institutions are recognised in the European Union. This is why agreements have always been signed under socialist government with almost all the European institutions, the Committee of the Regions, the Commission, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee, the European Ombudsman, so that this is possible, and because of this, and even if they are not regarded as co-official languages of the Union as such, Spanish citizens can communicate with most of the Union's institutions in those co-official languages and receive responses to the same languages, and the representatives of the Autonomous Communities and of Spain also have the opportunity to work in that language both in the Committee of the Regions and in the Council. You can count on me, I guarantee you, to promote the use of Catalan, Basque and Galician in the European institutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u113	Mrs. Rosique.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u114	Minister, being able to refer to the European institutions in Catalan is a step, but it is not enough. What we are asking of them is easier than they propose. We ask you to recognize the existence and unity of our language and the protection of minority languages as a human right, and one easy way to do that - you know - is to ask the Council of the European Union to include the Catalan language in the Treaty on European Union in order to ensure its official status. Have you not wondered why 10 million people from four European states cannot have the same linguistic rights as those who speak an official state language as Spanish? Moreover, they know very well that this depends solely and exclusively on their political will, and whenever one State has requested the inclusion of another language the Council of the European Union has approved it. Minister... [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u115	Mrs Rosique, I suppose your main objective is that the minister understand you so that you can answer your question properly. Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u116	As I said before, there is no prospect of reforming the treaties in the short term and therefore the Catalan and sixty more regional languages in Europe will not be able to be co-official in the short term, but the linguistic diversity of Spain will continue to be supported by this Government, also that of Spanish, which unites us with 500 million people and projects us in the world. We are committed to allowing Spanish citizens to express themselves in Spanish, Catalan, Basque, Galician and all the European institutions. Proof of this is that, in the framework of the Conference for the Future of Europe, we have created a national table at which we can and will study how to enhance the use of Catalan, Basque and Galician in the European Union. There are all the autonomous communities, missing Catalonia, encouraged him to join and to reflect together. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF AFFAIRS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT NEW MISSIONS ARE GOING TO DO THIS YEAR THE GOVERNMENT TO INDEPENDENTS IN THE NEGOTIATION OF BUDGETS? [[File number 180/00656]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u117	Question addressed to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, look, you, as Minister of Finance, have become the takeover of the casino, of the risky gambling house that has set up Pedro Sánchez with all the coven of independenceists in this House. Look, in everything you are doing there is latent immorality and when some citizens, naively, get up in the morning and think that there can be no more possibility of degradation or moral depravity of their politics, they get over each day. Look, the first immorality is to have turned Bildu into a kind of strong bargaining power with the aim of constituting what you have called the new majority, which is the new ethnic minority in which the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has been consolidated. But what's more, you're experiencing an amazing stun, which you're getting used to, and that's dangerous. Spanish socialism is experiencing the worst moment in its history, and I say this to you because all the members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group have assumed unconditionally and disciplinaryly that self-deception to which the President of the Government and the leadership of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party have subjected them. But there is another immorality, and it is to negotiate with the Catalan independenceists, with the wandering Catalan nationalist. Look, you at the budget table have two heads, two feet, you have the dilemma of people: Parot and Puigdemont. What would happen, Minister, if Puigdemont were extradited to Spain? By the way, an appeal to Mr Puigdemont. I don't know if he wants to be a hero victim, whether he wants to be a hero or a martyr, but I'll tell you one thing, within what the Catalan nationalist victim is: what has to be is brave, and what is, is a coward. Because, if I wanted to, I'd have to be here holding myself accountable to the Spanish courts. Therefore, Minister, you who build Spanish first and Spanish second, do you know who the Spanish first? Disloyals, those who hate Spain. And you know who the second-rate Spaniards are? The ones we want in our country. What, therefore, are they going to do to the independenceists throughout the budgetary negotiation process? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u119	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, are not in the best position to describe worse or better political moments. We are seeing it in that convention that you have celebrated where what is only news is whether or not Mrs Ayuso appears and on which side each of the participants in that presentation are on. I want to tell you, Your Honor, three news that you won't like, none of them. The first, this government will approve the budgets and bring them to this House for approval in time and form before 31 December. Spain will have new budgets. [[Applauds]] Second news. Ladies and gentlemen, this government - as it did last year - will talk to all political groups and we know and we already know in advance that the People's Party refuses to agree on budgets with this government. Third news. Your Honor, of course, this government is going to continue on the path of dialogue as a way of strengthening coexistence among all Spaniards. I know, Mr Garcés, that you do not like any of the three news, but I tell you that this government will continue to work for the social majority to which it owes and in which it employs all its efforts. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u121	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u122	That you comply with the Constitution? If the budget bill had to be submitted to the General Courts before October 1st! But they're not going to do it! You have the dilemma of the two Pedros, of Pedro Sánchez and of Pere Aragonès, but I will tell you one thing, they are replacing the Catalan process with the Spanish process. And I say to him, compare two Aragonese: to Pere Aragonès, who is a disloyal, and to an Aragonese like me, who am loyal. Who does he stay with, loyalty or disloyalty? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u123	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mr Garcés, the People's Party, with this attitude, is constantly expressing the frustration of not winning the elections. What do you mean in your intervention? Are you willing to tie your shoulder? Are you ever going to consider the possibility of securing your shoulder? And, by the way, Mr. Garcés, what is not good in politics is hypocrisy. When Mr Aznar was, and consolidated his investiture, and agreed, with Mr Pujol, was he making divestitures to the independenceists or when you agree a budget that is not a divestiture and when he does this is the government sold to those who want to break Spain? [[Applauds]] Mr. Garcés, return to sanity, return to the general interest, contribute to politics, build an upbuilding parliament, abandon the policy of burning land, of insult, because that is all it does is remove the vote of the citizens... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA JIMENEZ-BECERRIL BARRIO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES PART OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND BILDU COMPLETE THE REQUIREMENT OF THE EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS TO AVOID HONEY FROM EARTH? [[File number 180/00636]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u126	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by María Teresa Jiménez-Becerril Barrio, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u127	Why has the government not complied with the European Union's demand to end the tributes to ETA terrorists? I'm telling you, Mr. Marlaska, because your president has sold himself to Bildu by five blood-stained votes. You erased your white hands the moment you narrowed down those of the florets. Of course, if ESTA is defeated, this government by negotiating with its heirs has made it invincible. Do we deserve the Spanish a president to allow tribute to Parot, the bloodiest terrorist in Spanish history? How will Sánchez explain in Europe that in Spain the rights of victims are violated because those who pay homage are their partners? They'll think he's gone crazy. No, Sánchez is not a madman; he is a stateless president, an opportunist who talks about rights and hate crimes depending on what they politically hold him back. And to Sánchez the victims of ETA do not rent it, the ones who do rent it are those who do not condemn the murders of Parot, among them those of the relatives of my companions Jaime Mateu and José Alcaraz. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u128	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril. I agree with you that any act of tribute to a member of a terrorist organization is an offence to the victims, an offence to democratic values, an offence to the whole of Spanish society. You've been talking about scraps. This Government, this Ministry of the Interior, is working. You know that article 578 is not being applied by the National Court on the understanding that these acts, and missing ETA, have a difficult penal fit. We are working on the reform of the Act on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims of terrorism with a view to introducing administrative sanctions. What did your game do for seven years? Nothing. I recommend that you read a car from Central Court of Instruction No. 6 where you recently told the Ministry of the Interior what was being done during that process. We work and continue to work on responding to the memory, truth and dignity of the victims of terrorism. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u130	Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u131	Look at me, Mr. Marlaska. Why do they abandon ETA victims? My party made the status of victims in 2014. You do it now because our loved ones were killed for defending the freedom and unity of Spain, and those values are not on Sánchez's independence agenda, but be sure they are on Pablo Casado's and the People's Party, where we do not want, nor can we, nor should we forget so many sacrifices. You have not moved a finger to stop the humiliation of the victims, for what you have moved is to approach all terrorists and facilitate their release. That's why the Batasuns say they are experiencing a historic moment with the PSOE, which voted against ending ETA's tributes on the same day that their minister Bolaños negotiated the budgets with Bildu. What a shame! And if Sánchez has no dignity, the Spaniards do have it and we lead him to send his house for betraying the victims of terrorism, which we represent Spain much more dignifiedly than he does. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u132	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril. I thought I didn't have to answer you the way I'm going to do it, and, believe me, you and I are professional politicians here. We share many more things. There are victims in all political parties; we have all mourned victims of the terrorist organization ETA. [[Applauds]] They're all our victims! Those of the People's Party, those of the Socialist Party, those of the State Security Forces and Corpses, those of the Armed Forces, civilians, all, all are our victims, not heritageisms. We have all suffered terrorism, the cruelty of the terrorist organisation ETA, but we have all also faced it; don't forget, we have all faced the terrorist organisation ETA. I should like to inform you that since this Government has been in office since June, the number of tributes to members of the terrorist organization ETA has decreased substantially. In 2017 there were seventy, data from the Covite observatory; in 2019 there were twenty, the first whole year with the socialist government. That is also working, working on the memorial for the victims of terrorism, on the teaching sheets to be introduced into school curricula. All that is to give protection, and also to reform the law in the terms I have previously cited. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHAT INITIATIVES ARE CONCRETED TO BE THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR TO TRY TO ENJOY THE CELEBRATION OF THE PUBLIC HONEY IN MONDRAGON TO THE ASSEMBLY ETARA PAROT? [[File number 180/00641]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u135	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, what steps have you taken to prevent the celebration of the tribute to the murderous Etra Parot? The truth, none, and do not come to me with monks, because through the governmental authority, which is the Delegation of Government in the Basque Country, depending on the exceptional circumstances, recognized and facilitated by our current legal order, you could have prevented it. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u137	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. I hope you will enlighten me a little more in your last statement, but I will tell you that, in view of this possibility of holding such a tribute, the delegate of the Government in the Basque Country brought it to the attention of the Office of the Public Prosecutor and the National Court, as was the case. But I remind you, to remind everyone, that by the forceful actions of all institutions, victim associations and civil society in general, the public tribute to the terrorist Parot was suspended. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u139	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u140	Thank you. Minister, you know perfectly well that for that you are an illustrious judge, the provisions of the legal order to which I am referring. Secondly, it is of great defiance that you come to say that the public tribute was suspended. It was multiplied! Reiterated not in one, but in hundreds of calls in different squares of the Basque municipalities. Look, your complicit passivity is a new betrayal of the victims and an insult to national dignity. Disgusting and unworthy to contemplate how the political heirs of ETA demand the freedom of an unclean beast like Parot or as the age-old Otegi, the political leader of these heirs, says that it is normal, that it is absolutely normal to celebrate public tributes to the murderers when they are released from prison. Similar vileties are part of an attempt to whitewash ETA's criminal history to make it forget that there were victims and executioners. Yes, there were victims and executioners, and the children of these executioners today are preferred partners of a government that yields to their demands. That is the sinister alliance that Sánchez has perpetrated in Spanish politics, a veritable load of garbage. Be assured that, in the face of that garbage, when the Spaniards so desire, VOX will return to the State its necessary moral height. And, of course, it will return to democracy and Spanish freedom the permanent service, patriotic, to the general interest, which always respects and honours the memory of the victims in front of the murderers. And now, Minister, you say whatever you want. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u141	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. The first thing I want to do is thank him for me regaining my status as an illustrious magistrate. I guess that's the way you have to apologize to other behaviors in months before my person. [[Applauds]] I don't know if anything's changed. Appreciate it. As I said to Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, I repeat that this Government applies the law, this Government regards any offence against the victims of terrorism as an offence to them, to democratic values and to society. We are working, we are going to reform the Act on the recognition and comprehensive protection of victims for these purposes; we are looking at the European Commission's assessment, as I have said, of the Terrorism Directive. In these terms, I must also point out that we continue to work and have worked since June 2018 at the Victims of Terrorism Memorial Centre, which was completely paralyzed and provided for in Law 29/2011; unanimity, but with a socialist government. We are also working to obtain greater subsidies for associations of victims of terrorism; in the teaching materials because, although you do not believe it, education is very important, it is very important to educate in values, that is very important for us and in that we are, so that these conducts are not repeated, of course. And, I repeat, in the years that this progressive government of the Socialist Party and of the United Nations has been carrying, we can see the number of recognitions, of receptions to members of the terrorist organization ETA has decreased substantially, in those terms that I have indicated to you. Why? Because we are working to educate and transfer people who are not admissible in a democratic society such acts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIONA ILLAMOLA DAUSÀ, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DO YOU THINK THIS GOVERNMENT THAT INDEPENDENTISM IS TERRORISM? [[File number 180/00627]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u143	Question by Mrs Illamola Dausà, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u144	Good morning. Minister, do you believe this government that independence is terrorism? I ask because there are independenceists accused of terrorism for being part of a CoR, for sending messages informing of demonstrations, for participating in a concert on the border, for responding to a public call from Tsunami Democratic. Can't the Independenceists exercise their right to protest freely, have products of multiple uses in their home, send whatever wasaps they want? It seems not, because there are people who, because of being independent, are prejudiced. And false reports are produced. Do you think all reports from the Civil Guard are true? The D.A., who's already told us who it depends on, do you believe that? It seems that, in relation to the independenceists, it always gives rise to the reports of the Civil Guard. Look, I send messages reporting demonstrations, participated in them, I have weed-killing products at home, I'm an independentist and I'm not a terrorist. You said that you spend an hour on Saturday reading the judgments of the European Court. If, moreover, he reviews the PACE report at no time, he will see that neither political prisoners, exiles, nor those who support them as terrorists are qualified. On the contrary, they are urged not to be denied their convictions, to abandon extradition proceedings and to withdraw all open proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u145	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u146	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Illamola, you ask me textually: Do you believe this government that independence is terrorism? No, I'm not. This government does not share independence processes, it does encounter processes, but, obviously, for us independence positions are absolutely legitimate, it would lack more. It's obvious. I say to you a very clear and very specific question: it is obvious, as much as you are a representative of an independentist party, that more would be missing; as is the Government of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. I'll tell you more, what the project is like. Look, we can't discuss the obviouss. In addition, we have a Constitution that is not militant, that does not require any kind of concrete ideology or a defense to the extreme of its content. That is why we are perhaps one of the full democracies in those terms. But, there is a very clear question, you ask the Government to intervene in judicial proceedings, and I tell you that that State that you have in mind worries me, because it seems that there is no division of powers in it and it is proper to democracies, to those full democracies to which you so often refer. I repeat, not quite. Independence is an ideology; an ideology as respectable as any other, always evidently not seeking or exercising violence for the fulfilment of its purposes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u147	Mrs. Illamola.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u148	I suppose you, as a minister and a magistrate, knew the decision of the General Court of the Union, do you trust that all the powers of the State understood it correctly? It does not seem so, because of the actions of the Carabineros, the Dikes and the Directorate General of the Police that followed in Valladolid the illegal arrest of the very honorable President Puigdemont and, at the same time, Euro MP. Didn't they inform you? You didn't know him? Have you held any meetings or contact with the president, the king or any other high authority between Thursday and Saturday? I must ask you: who rules in the Kingdom of Spain? Because there seems to be an unheard-of decoordination and cross-referencing of powers in a rule of law. Is it not that they are wrong in objective, and the evil so-called terrorism has it within the institutions? Do you maintain that the information to the Italian authorities was handed over by the Belgian authorities, as it has been published? Mr. Marlaska, who is the cover of this illegal detention? Being independent and fighting peacefully - that is always - for the independence of your country, but a Catalonia liure, is not synonymous with being a terrorist, nor should it be subjected to any kind of persecution as it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u149	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. To be independent is not to be terrorist, I repeat it again; independence is an absolutely legitimate ideological option, and we will be the Democrats there to defend it. You're talking about the frame. We are within the framework of Mr Puigdemont, within the framework of judicial decisions, within the framework of what is called dialogue between European courts; let them act. You say who is in charge in Spain; for in Spain they are in charge of the three powers, each in the sphere of their competence; and I believe that you, to some extent and listening to it, question that this is what should happen in a democracy. I want to continue living in a democracy and that every power sends within the framework... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED BENIT BANDIAN GIFT, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT MEASURES IS TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY TO IMPROVE [[EAJ-PNV]] THE DETERIORATED SERVICE OF THE SANTANDER-BILBAO RAILLINE, INSPECIAL, IN HIS PROCESS BETWEEN KARRANTY AND BILBAO? [[File number 180/00647]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u152	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u153	Good morning, Minister. Recently his ministry announced the recovery of frequencies on the Santander-Bilbao railway line, and it seemed that he was doing so as if that were the main problem of that line. However, I want to move it to something else and I would like you to understand it in a given context; that line is basically a train of proximity for two zones, two territories, linked to the two nearby capitals. But it is also the main public medium so that its people can access services, economic means and opportunities, so that it allows them to fix their population in their territory, so that citizens can decide to continue living in that territory. In addition, it happens to have the two main lines, the Karrantza-Bilbao and Marron-Santander, whose service is - let me - not bad, but regrettable, and it walks in the opposite direction to that purpose of general interest, which is to avoid the emptying of the rural population. I will give you an example, said train, which is inaugurated in 1896, it takes today between Karrantza and Bilbao between 71 and 81 minutes, which is the same as it took in 1910, and more than 58 that it took in 2002; although, the usual is delays of 30 to 40 minutes, that on the day the trains leave, because there are times, as yesterday, that the one in Bilbao did not leave. In many places there are neither handlers nor cancellers to check the security, the information or the actual number of users, which, even, the data of their demand is false; old trains, often damaged, with interrupted lines - yesterday, without going any further - because the track or equipment are in bad condition, having to frequently go to transhipments and therefore to further delays. But the problems that concern us most and, of course, we must assume are those of security, accessibility or information to users. I will not give the show, but I will pass you, minister, the reference of two videos; one where you see how a train crosses a road with the barriers of the passage to level raised, because sometimes they do not work, and another, from a few days ago also, where a train from Santander to Bilbao turned around when arriving at Karrantza for problems on the track, but no warning was given to the users, who were caught in the train in the opposite direction and had to knock the driver's door to announce what was happening. We think, therefore, that all these deficiencies are not only a serious problem, but that they violate the quality parameters required in the contract between your ministry and Renfe Travellers SME and, therefore, we want to ask you the question: What measures will you take to improve the deteriorated service of the Santander-Bilbao railway line, especially between Karrantza and Bilbao?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u154	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. You know that the Government has a commitment to sustainable mobility, and we know that one of the best ways to promote it and to promote it is through the rail service and, in particular, through proximity services, public services, and that transport, as I said, must be a transport that guarantees accessibility and the proximity of citizens. In the case of the mid-distance services to which you referred, between Bilbao and Santander in metric width, despite the fact that the number of travellers is still around 65% lower, I must also say that, since 5 September, we have restored all the offer prior to the health crisis. This program also offers a service early in the morning from Carranza to Bilbao, from Monday to Friday, to strengthen the offer, thus facilitating transfers to access the workplace, studies or anywhere. However, we know that there is still room for improvement and we also have other actions that you know about, both in terms of services and infrastructure itself. With regard to services, we continue to carry out preventive and corrective maintenance of the trains, and in the medium term we have the contract to renew the fleet of the trains with the supply of 31 new trains of metric width worth 258 million euros after years in which no new trains had been acquired for these services. As far as the infrastructure network is concerned, for the whole Bilbao-Santander line we have more than 85 million for the period 2021-2025 and, in addition, there are also electrification works, which we know cause certain inconveniences but are necessary and are part of an amendment that you voted in favour of in the current budgets. Therefore, these electrification works, which are necessary, often involve discomfort, but are inevitable to improve infrastructure. We also have alternative transportation systems so as not to leave citizens without service. So, we're working on services, we're working on infrastructure, we're also working on the information study... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: IS THE MINISTER COMMITTED TO RECOVERY THE RAILWAY DIRECTOR ZARAGOZA-TERUEL-EVALENCE-ALICANT-CARTAGENA, RECOGNISED AS A PUBLIC SERVICE OBLIGATION INCLUDING TREATMENT IN THE STATE RAILWAY NETWORK? [[WITH IDA AND VUELTA]] [[File number 180/00632]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u157	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u158	Good morning, Minister. Does the ministry undertake to recover the daily railway service Zaragoza-Teruel-Valencia-Alicante-Cartagena, with return and return, recognized as a public service obligation and that it integrates Teruel into the state railway network?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u159	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Guitarte, the service to which you refer from Zaragoza-Teruel-Valencia-Alicante-Cartagena ceased to be provided following the statement of the state of alarm. But, generally speaking, we are recovering the services we had to suspend, always going one step ahead of the demand. Currently, in relation to this line, it is maintained and maintained through links in Valencia, with medium and long distance trains. As the demand improvement in the Zaragoza-Teruel-Valencia relationship is confirmed, we will respond to that train that operated throughout the entire relationship. You can count on our commitment. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u161	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u162	According to our data, it has only been recovered in the Valencia-Cartagena section, that is, it must still enter into service the operation of the Zaragoza-Teruel-Valencia section. For us this section is very significant because this service provides 50% of the passengers who have the line and, as I will comment below, their loss could endanger the future of the line itself as passenger transport. Similarly, other basic rail services for the county heads and for many villages have been abolished in Aragon. This is the case of the services between the capital and Monzón-Huesca, those that go to Calatayud or those that should arrive in Teruel from Valencia. Recently, his ministry has agreed with the government of Aragon to replace two of these rail transport services with bus services, which means a deterioration in the quality of the service, a abandonment of the railway in these territories, going against EU policy and, of course, condemning us again to the use of fossil fuels. We believe that your ministry should reflect with responsibility and critical sense on the poor planning of passenger transport services on the Teruel line and in other empty Spain, a management that leads to a continuous loss of the number of passengers on these conventional lines. For example, due to changes in schedules and the deployment of services in time slots impossible for demand, between 2011 and 2014 on the Teruel line travellers decreased by 80 %. The consequences of this line are rail isolation. Today, from Teruel you can only travel to four cities without promotions, while, for example, in our same community, from Huesca you can access twenty-one cities and from Zaragoza to fifty-two. Abundant in the deficiencies of planning, when a service has passengers, like this one we have mentioned from Zaragoza to Cartagena passing through Teruel and Valencia, which accounts for 50% of the services, at that time divert the trains by other lines. In short, the facts seem to reveal the intention to abolish the transport of passengers by rail on the lines passing through Teruel. We need, on the contrary, that the ministry and Renfe offer for Spain internal and rail passenger transport that spills over the territory and provides services to small and medium-sized cities and not only to the large metropolitan areas as is the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u163	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. You can be calm because the Government and this ministry have a strong commitment to the demographic challenge, because we want to be with all the citizens and we want to guarantee, as I said before, the right to mobility. One of the issues - and we will now talk about railway services - is also, for example, the Renfe Digital Skills Centre in Teruel, which we have launched since July. As for the railway services you refer to, it is clear and it is indisputable that the railway will spill over the territory and ensure its mobility, and therefore - although the demand, I insist, remains below that of 2019 - the public service trains are already restored in Aragon to 87 %. The relationship between Teruel-Zaragoza has two daily services and, therefore, it is also restored in its entirety, and the Valencia-Teruel-Zaragoza relationship has four daily services, only one less per sense per day than it had before the pandemic. I will also tell you that we continue to make progress in the agreements with their formation that benefit Teruel and that benefit mainly citizens who are our priority, and that I also insist, contribute and commit ourselves to fulfilling them. On the railway line between Zaragoza, Teruel and Sagunto we are carrying out an important renovation of the infrastructure with a total investment of 441 million, of which we have already mobilized 200 million, and we have resumed the studies of improvement. We are also committing the replacement of mobile material, to which you referred to your state. In conclusion, the commitment of this government... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA FIGAREDO ÁLVAREZ-SALA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT'S INSTITUTIONAL RESPECT FOR THE DELIVERY OF THE DEPUTATES TO BE GUARANTEEED FROM THE MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY? [[File number 180/00651]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u166	Questions to the Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr José María Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u167	Mr. Minister, your ministry, precisely for the Presidency and for relations with the Courts, is responsible for ensuring that the Government, i.e. the Executive Branch, respects institutional independence with the Courts, which are the depositaries of popular sovereignty. However, his ministry has declared the illegal - illegal - rules that have led to the greatest violation of the fundamental rights of the Spaniards of Spanish democracy. His Government had issued draconian rules, based precisely on this illegal rule, which had ruined Spanish businesses, SMEs and self-employed people. Your Government is sitting down to negotiate with the Government of an autonomous community - two executive powers negotiating, two executive powers that are not depositaries of national sovereignty - precisely on national sovereignty, and this, Minister, is a matter of great concern to us. With all this file, what do you intend to do? What concrete steps will you and your ministry take to ensure that the Government respects these Courts, which are the depositories of national sovereignty? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u168	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am very pleased that the VOX Parliamentary Group is concerned about respect for this House, for the Congress of Deputies. Welcome. We, the Government, are also concerned about respect for Congress and for Members of this House. You can be very calm because the government is absolutely respectful and fulfilling its obligations to this House. Any parameter you take into consideration, any one - appearances by the president, ministers, answers to questions, parliamentary handlings of royal decrees-laws, whatever you want - demonstrates that we are a compliant and respectful government. Indeed, with regard to that concern that you raise about respect for this House, I hope that this is the first sign of your intention to amend. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u170	Mr. Figaredo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u171	Mr Minister, I see that you are throwing jumps at this parliamentary group when we are one of the most educated parliamentary groups. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] When you say that we are not going to find you in the political mud, we see that it refers only to when the separatists speak, because with them you are soft as silk; it does, however, put a risk when speaking to us. The reality says something else, Minister. His Government was one of the democratic governments that had left most written questions unanswered by this legislative power. When your Government comes here with all its troop of ministers, it supposedly leaves us abandoned and brings only six of its ministers to national sovereignty. His Government, in short, was not respecting that difference of power, it was not respecting that popular sovereignty and, indeed, it frightened us. Minister, I was asking you about your actions and your concrete initiatives, but I see that you are not able to raise even one. You bring a prefabricated speech, empty of content and, unfortunately, leaves us very uneasy. Let us hope that these intestinal betrayals - stabbing their political leader, stabbing the ministers of Ábalos, etc. - do not reproduce with Spain. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u172	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will answer, Mr Figaredo, that part of your question that I have understood, because there has been another very confusing part that I have not been able to understand. I know that you have a tormentive relationship with reality and with the facts. You prefer the bubbles and we the reality, manage it and improve people's lives. I'll give you some data. With regard to the last parliamentary term of Mr Rajoy's Government, during the same period, our President of the Government has appeared twelve times. Do you know how many times Mr. Rajoy showed up? Four. The group of ministers in this period have attended a hundred and forty times. Do you know how many times Mr. Rajoy's ministers attended? Seventy-nine. As far as the average absence of ministers from the control session is concerned, we have the lowest average absences from the last legislatures. Therefore, Mr Figaredo, you may rest assured. It also gives figures on questions that are not true. We have answered more than 93% of the questions that have been put to us, more than a hundred thousand, when previous governments were below that figure with far fewer questions. Do you know what is missing in this House sometimes from your group? I ask you for respect. Do you think it's respect for insulting a socialist deputy when she's speaking in the rostrum? Does that sound like respect to you? And does it seem respectable to face a media professional in a bad way, also in this House? [[Applauds]] Look, all I'm asking you to do is respect the Spaniards and what you've decided, that this government is taking on this responsibility... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. VEHI CANTENYS, OF THE JOINT Parliamentary GROUP, FORMULATING THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT EXPECT FROM THE DIALOGUE MESSAGE AFTER THE DETENTION OF PUIGDEMONT CARLES? [[File number 180/00658]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u175	Question by Mrs Mireia Vehí Cantenys, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u176	Thank you, President. Minister, what does this government expect from the dialogue table with Catalonia? We have decided to ask the Government again about this issue because the repressive situation is quite harsh: the arrest of Puigdemont, the CDR accused of terrorism without evidence, trial at the Bureau of Parliament, Tamara Carrasco. To save time, we will try to clear the unknowns of the answers that the government spokesmen usually give us. Mr. Marlaska was telling us that you have no control over the judiciary. It is clear that it remains to be clarified what role you played in the arrest of Puigdemont and what relationship you have in coordination with the Attorney General's Office. But our question is not about the judiciary, but about its political role: what are they going to do with the political path of the dialogue table? Are you going to allow the amnesty law to be processed? Are you going to allow the referendum of self-determination? Before, President Sánchez spoke of 80% of Catalans and Catalans who wanted social dialogue. Right. Dialogue is called referendum and amnesty. And if you are going to answer us with the Constitution and its limits, let us tell you that you use the Constitution as a rubber with banks and financial powers - and so it was in the approval and amendment of Article 135, to pay the debt before public services - and use the Constitution as an iron rod for the rights of peoples. Let me also say that it seemed impossible for women to divorce, vote or the same referendum in Scotland to be held in 2023. So, Minister, what role will you play in the general policy debate that is taking place right now in Catalonia on the CUP motion for a resolution to hold a referendum on self-determination in Catalonia? Are you going to stand on the side of the political solution, which in our country means a referendum on self-determination, or are you going to stand alongside VOX and Citizens, who have already threatened to bring to the Constitutional Court the mere idea of being able to speak in the Catalan Parliament of a referendum on self-determination?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u177	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. We think of the dialogue table the same thing we thought last week and that we will think what is coming, and that is that we bet on political solutions, we bet on dialogue as a channel of understanding and we bet on dialogue to seek solutions to the political problem that exists in Catalonia. Look, at this time in Catalonia, in addition to independenceists and constitutionalists, there is above all a division between the people we bet for dialogue, so as not to chronicle the conflict, and the people who bet that the situation of 2017 is frozen in a conflict that took us where? Can you tell me if in 2017 in that conflict, in that bringing Catalan citizenship to the edge of the abyss, won anyone? Is that your political project? Is that the political project of people who don't bet on dialogue? Is that what we want for Catalonia? Was that good for Catalonia? Was it good for the rest of Spain? Why don't we take a step forward? Why are we not aware that we need to dialogue? And of course there will be problems at that dialogue table. It's going to be a complex road and it's going to be a long road. And the problems that arise at that table will be addressed, you know how? With more dialogue, with more dialogue, with more ability to approach. You yourself made reference in your speech - and the President of the Government did - to a very recent survey of a newspaper in Barcelona. He said that 80% of Catalans want dialogue, they want agreed solutions. We are with that 80%, we are for the solutions agreed. Where are you? Where are you? I will tell you something: listen to that majority of Catalans, because, if not, at some point, most Catalans will stop listening to you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u179	Mrs. Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u180	Thank you, President. Minister, the only division in Catalonia is between those who want a referendum and those who do not, and those who want a referendum are 80%. This is the dialogue. Where are you?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u181	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Do you know what the referendum means? Cronify the conflict, chronify for life, that there is a part of Catalan society that is not conformable and that the other part cannot be, either, because it manages to chronify a fractured society. We are committed to cross-cutting, dialogue solutions, where we all stay. And I know that you make a speech about the state, where the three powers, the judiciary, the executive and the legislature are mixed. It's a speech, let me tell you, very unsophisticated and it doesn't correspond to reality. However, we, at the political level, which is our responsibility as a Government, are betting and betting on dialogue. I invite you to join this dialogue as a way of resolving... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs ISABEL POZUETA FERNÁNDEZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY: HOW WILL THE COMPETITION IN SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH BE TRANSFERED TO NAVARRA? [[File number 180/00643]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u184	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy. Question by Mrs Isabel Pozueta Fernández, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u185	Good morning, Minister. The Act on the Reintegration and Improvement of the Navarra Foral Regime, Lorafna, was adopted on 10 August 1982. It was approved - I remind you - without Navarra citizenship being able to vote for it, since its party, along with UPN, stole the decision from the Navarros and Navarros. Article 44 of the said law contains the exclusive competences that belong to the territory foral, and among them we find the competence in scientific and technical research. Today, after thirty-nine years, Minister, this very important competition for Navarre and its development remains to be transferred. And before you fall into the temptation to use the excuse that the transfer has been delayed because of the pandemic, I will repeat it once again, thirty-nine years we have been waiting for the Spanish Government to comply with the thirty-nine-year improvement and pending transfers. That's why I ask you: when will you transfer your scientific and technical research expertise to Navarra?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u186	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Your Honor, this is a competition that forms part of its autonomy status, as part of the autonomy statutes of the Basque Country, the Canary Islands, Murcia, Catalonia, Cantabria, Castile-La Mancha, Andalusia. In short, your question serves me to highlight the disposition of the Government of Spain today, not forty years ago, today, which is a willingness to work, to collaborate with all the autonomies to develop to the maximum our constitutional framework, to deploy to the maximum all the statutes of autonomy for a single purpose, to improve the life of citizens and to take on the challenges that today, not thirty years ago, we have to take on. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u188	Mrs. Pozueta.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u189	Policy management in R & D+i is a highly strategic competition for Navarre and more at this moment of crossroads in the face of the technological and innovation challenge. Research is one of the axes of the S3 Intelligent Specialization Strategy in Navarre. Realising and exercising this competence facilitates the availability of more resources discounted from the economic agreement to invest in research personnel, research centres, projects and patents, in addition to innovative public procurement, all of which focuses on Navarra's economic and social needs and projects that have emerged and been commissioned in and from Navarra. Minister, this competition and its transfer is even reflected in the agreement of the Government of Navarra de María Chivite, signed in May 2019, which envisages a year to transfer it; be fulfilled now. I would like to express our absolute anger at the suspension of three laws envisaged in the future as new to Navarre, which our Parliament unanimously adopted. His Government had appealed against it and the Constitution had annulled it, it was its responsibility and it was very serious. With the same force that we demand you to comply with the transfers, we demand you to respect the will of Navarra citizens and the sovereignty of your Parliament and stop resorting to our laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u190	Minister for Territorial Policy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, once again allow me to highlight how much this Government has advanced in the field of collaboration, also in the normative field with all the autonomous communities, and allow me to speak well of the Government of Navarre, which is ultimately to speak well of all shipwrecks and all shipwrecks. Indeed, this management of transfers in our country has been blocked for a long time, twenty years in particular with regard to autonomous development in Navarre, twenty years of inaction, and in just three years this Government has managed, first of all, to deal with transfers in the area of prison health and, secondly, to conclude before the end of this year the transfers in the field of traffic, and all this in a context, as I said, of the enormous challenges that we have to face as a country. Your question also serves me to highlight science in its broadest spectrum, science as a global concept in which our country, Navarra and all the autonomy we have to add; science, which has allowed us to emerge from the worst of the pandemic with a successful vaccination that has led our country and which has made a very important advance for all of us, and the science that has also allowed us to be predictors and be able to act to avoid further damage in the case of the La Palma volcano. That science can't be kept small, Your Honor. I believe that the challenge we face ahead, if we want to look at our country with a future perspective, is not to plan the competences as forty years ago, but to move forward in democratic and constitutional development, to think not so much about what I have or what competence I want, but what objective I want to achieve, and in this way raise my hand to see what we can each do in order to achieve that objective. That is the way the Spanish Government works. [[Applauds]] - OF MR CARMEN RIOLOBOS REGADERA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF CONSUMER: HOW DOES THE HISTORY SCALE OF THE PRICE OF LIGHT INJURY TO CONSUMER? [[File number 180/00657]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u192	Question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs. Question by Mrs Carmen Riolobos Regadera, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u193	Mr. Garzón, your impertinence in the government is directly proportional to your cowardly silence in the face of the unstoppable rise of light. They were up by 8%, and now, up by 300 %, they are quiet. His inaction is irresponsible and treacherous to all Spaniards. How does the historic escalation of the price of light harm consumers? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u194	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u195	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Riolobos, you are always so kind and polite to me. I will tell you that you have to bear in mind a conceptual precision: energy prices are not the same as light prices; in fact, what is in historical record is the price of energy, and in order for that not to be translated into a bill of light that harms working families, this Government is putting in place many measures that you know perfectly well, because we have explained them to you over and over again in the Consumer Committee and I myself have referred to them over and over again by informing you directly. Therefore, it is evident that that silence of which you speak is only in your head. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u196	Mrs. Riolobos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u197	His ideology brings poverty. The rise in energy has harmed 29 million consumers, families, self-employed, pensioners, unemployed and vulnerable, as it has resulted in a 40% increase in the receipt of light. We have 1.2 million consumers with energy poverty - less bad than the social bonus created by the People's Party - there are impossible times to wash and iron and your collection is going to rise 3000 million euros. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Secondly, inflation has been triggered. The Banco de España talks that in the shopping basket there have been 100 products dragged by the price of energy, plus gasoline, butane, services and gas. You have lost the purchasing power of families. Its ideology ejects the middle classes and, in addition, the economy worsens. The INE speaks of a decline in GDP, which can be translated into unemployment. Its great social shield has jumped through the air and is leaving millions of families behind. President Casado has asked to lower and thin the receipt of light, removing all the fat, reducing 9 billion euros and paying only what is consumed. What's going to happen in winter? What's going to happen to families and gas heating through the clouds? Two million won't be able to put it on. How will they protect the most vulnerable? Is there going to be gas depletion? His proposal to expand, as in Venezuela, ends in light cuts. Mr. Garzón, your ideology brings poverty, and you are the enemy of people, vulnerable families, middle classes and self-governing. Go away and take Mr. Sanchez. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u198	Mr Minister for Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Riolobos, your thick words do not accompany an intervention with consistency, from which one should expect greater attention and precision in your words, especially if it is possible if it is at least the tenth time that you and I have discussed this matter; this afternoon we will do so again in the Committee on Consumer Affairs, where you are the spokesman. I will highlight two issues to you. This government, in order to lower the prices of light and not to affect the prices of energy, has intervened on taxes. For example, we have temporarily suspended the 7% generation tax, a tax, Mrs Riolobos, which the People's Party has put in place. We have also reduced VAT to 10%; a tax, by the way, which the People's Party has risen to 21 %. Therefore, you are manifesting a legitimate but deeply hypocritical narrative, which has nothing to do with the real problems of citizenship, but with your intentions of politics. [[Applauds]] I tell you something else, Mrs Riolobos, the price of energy has to do with a structural problem in this country: we have no gas and we have to import it; we are at the mercy of energy dependence. That could have been resolved by structural and strategic policies of investing more in renewables, but while the People's Party was ruling, it devoted itself to imposing a sun tax and boycotting any attempt to reduce the power of oligopoly and large energy companies. Once again, Madam Speaker of the People's Party, the presence of the People's Party in the Government has slowed down the solutions we need right now. [[Rumors]] And even if your Members are quite rude, shouting back here, I will tell you again and again, with the usual calmness, that this government is clearly doing everything possible to enable working families to pay for basic supplies, that this concern is the first that the government has in mind and that, of course, we will explain it to you again and again, although you do not want to listen because you do not care at all. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u200	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Echaniz and Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel, please I have called you to remain silent on several occasions during this monitoring session. I ask you for respect when a minister who is next to you intervenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u201	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, to ensure compliance with the principle of legality in foreign policy. For your defence, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u202	Good morning, Minister. Last week the President of the Government travelled to New York, a trip that you were able to accompany, as I have seen from photographs. An important press conference was held there. The purpose was to build confidence in Spain after a stage in which we had gone through an undesirable none. Spain has to be perceived again as what it has always been: a reliable country. Believe me, I'm sorry, but once again what Pedro Sánchez did was the opposite: sow doubts. Faced with the journalists' question about the government's action regarding Brahim Ghali's entry into Spain, Sánchez's answer was at least disturbing: Spain did with Ghali what it had to do and how it had to do. That's something I have to ask about here today, because I'm extremely concerned. There are many indications that the Government acted outside the law and many indications that it was done with the knowledge of the President of the Government. Respect for legality is a sine qua non for any democracy and a prerequisite for Spain to regain its credibility as a result of this succession of international misconceptions perpetrated by this Government. Since it cannot be otherwise, it is up to the Government to promote a country's international relations, no one questions that. Article 149 of the Constitution, which confers exclusive competence on the State in this matter, and article 97, which also confers exclusive control over foreign policy on the Government. So far well, but that doesn't mean they can exercise it with absolute discretion. In each and every one of his acts he must preside over the principle of legality, because without law, minister, arbitrariness reigns; without law there is no democracy, and without law, minister, international trust in a country deteriorates. [[applause]] Compliance and law enforcement is particularly important when we talk about international relations. It is what allows us to establish long-term policies, it is what allows us to distinguish a serious country from another that is not, and to generate confidence in our partners and allies. Allow me, of course, to go a little further, since I listened to you very carefully this morning at the monitoring session, when in the question of another parliamentary group on this subject you intended to be shielded from State officials. Don't do it again. We all know that there is no diplomat, no state lawyer, no military who makes political decisions, which are the ones we are questioning here. So, if you intend to maintain respect due to a minister in Santa Cruz, Viana, Serrano Galvache or in the external delegations of Spain do not use the officials as parapet. That's a very ugly thing. [[Applauds]] Unfortunately, since Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government there have been many times and episodes in which the Government has acted outside the law, when not directly against, as the highest courts of the nation have ruled, and I am afraid that it has also acted in foreign policy. Acting in this way, our action abroad has been installed in continuous suspicion. We have ceased to be a reliable country for our allies. To defend impossible internal balances, the Government gives the impression that it always hides something, always takes shortcuts; there are agreements behind in dark rooms and negotiates in secret in order not to break with these unreliable allies that it has chosen as fellow travellers on the international scene. Minister, Spain needs and deserves to regain the lost credibility in the external sphere, to be respected again, to re-make our foreign policy an asset and not a generator of new problems where there were none. And that means guaranteeing the validity of the principle of legality and rejecting, with all its consequences - wherever they come from - that our foreign policy becomes that succession of unrecognizable voodoo, chapuzas and dislates to which this Government is accustomed. The investigation into the entry into Spain of the leader of the Frente Polisario, opened by Zaragoza's No. 7 Instruction Court, is only the tip of the iceberg of a foreign policy that takes a long time to drift. Look, the accusation is very serious: it attributes to former Minister González Laya and to the former foreign team's core decisions with criminal consequences for alleged crimes that the judge describes as cover-up, prevarication and documentary falsity. But as the investigation progresses, it becomes more and more evident that his predecessor in office could not act in isolation. Its reach goes far beyond, because it is not an isolated fact, it is the drop that fills the glass in a genuine race of misappointments that are always claimed by the same victim, which is the reputation of Spain as a nation would be, predictable and with its actions subject to the rule of law. And I repeat, it's not the first time. Sánchez has put our foreign policy on constant suspicion and that seriously affects credibility with our allies. Believe me, Minister, doing things wrong has its consequences. Never in such a short time had such shameful episodes taken place for our external prestige, and I will remind you of just a few. The first took place in November 2019, with Pedro Sánchez still serving as president. Inexplicably, the so-called Carvajal Chicken, claimed by the United States, vanished. The former head of intelligence of Hugo Chávez, close to Diosdado Cabello, linked to drug trafficking and arms trafficking, disappeared when a journalistic leak echoed that the Plenary of the Spanish National Court agreed to extradite him to the United States. There is still some confusion in this episode. Carvajal then reported that he entered Spain with the cooperation of the staff of the National Intelligence Centre, which went to receive him on foot from the plane together with a security officer from Barajas airport. And it has been published that, despite knowing his whereabouts, he was not stopped until the DEA pressed for his arrest and even had to cooperate, apparently, in his location and was present at the time of his arrest. Maybe they wanted to make sure with their own eyes that this time they wouldn't let him escape again. The Government must clarify this episode where all are shadows, because there can be no doubt about our determination in the fight against drug trafficking, and you have caused it to happen. And we don't want to think that this could have anything to do with its government partners and what they feared could happen, such as, for example, what the cover of the newspaper El Mundo, which says that Pollo Carvajal says to the judge that Monedero - representative of Podemos - charged 200 000 euros of chavismo with false invoices for services that were never provided. [[the sample]] We're already pulling a tree that's making it clear who its government partners are. [[Applauds]] The second episode occurred a month later in Bolivia, and there was a strange incident that has not yet been clarified and which raised suspicions about the performance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After his forced renunciation among allegations of fraud, former President Evo Morales had managed to leave for Mexico. Several of its ministers, in search and capture, took refuge in the embassy of that country, in La Paz, where they applied for asylum. They were not minor personalities, including former President Juan Ramón Quintana; former Culture Minister Wilma Alanoca; former Governor of Oruro, Victor Hugo Vásquez; and former Director of the Electronic Government and Information and Communication Technologies Agency. Then, in a confusing episode, officials of the Embassy of Spain in Bolivia - who do not make decisions on their own, minister - accompanied by four hooded and armed GEOS - who do not make decisions for their own sake - tried to infiltrate in a surreptitiously and clandestine way in that diplomatic residence. The new Bolivian Government accused them of wanting to evacuate the former senior officials of the Morales Government, hidden in the embassy. The country's chancellorship expelled the ambassador of Mexico, as well as the head of business and the consul of Spain, who were the highest representatives of our diplomatic delegation at the time; the Spanish Government was accused of committing what were called 'atropellos' and a note was sent to the Spanish Chancellorship denouncing the facts and demanding strict compliance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Once again, it seemed that the Government had acted outside the law, an accusation that the Government had never clarified. The same confusion reigns in relation to another event that occurred in January 2020 - surely former Minister Ábalos remembers it -, that day arrived in Spain Delcy Rodríguez, one of the most passionate and faithful of Maduro, the Venezuelan satrap. Let us remember that the Venezuelan Vice-President is one of the twenty-five people of the totalitarian regime of Nicolás Maduro whom the European Union sanctioned for violation of human rights and for undermining democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela. This sanction was agreed in November 2017 and consisted not only of the freezing of its assets on European soil, but also of the express prohibition of entry and transit into the Schengen area. Spain had to comply with the law and its obligations with its European partners, but in spite of this, on Sunday morning, January 19, Delcy Rodríguez landed in Spanish territory. To date we still do not know the contents of the suitcases carried by the vice president of Maduro, but we do know some things. It is known, for example, that two representatives of this Government, the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Development, attended to the Vice-President of Venezuela during the hours she was at the executive terminal in Barajas. We know that the police moved her to the T4 for fourteen and a half hours later to take a flight to Doha; we know that former Minister Ábalos held a clandestine meeting at untimely times and, perhaps most importantly, that the police did not at any time seal the passports of the members of the Venezuelan delegation, nor that of the Vice-President, in breach of the protocols established to that effect. There was no preceptive procedure for the examination of the passport and the registration of its transit through Spain, that is, once again it was carried out outside the law. The Government knew that. Ex-Minister Ábalos, lacking the truth, was changing the account of what happened, up to seven times. He began by denying the existence of the meeting, then spoke of a casual and fortuitous encounter, and evolution is already almost impossible to follow, a tree that I read surprisingly. This is the background that we must not forget now, when an even more serious event is presented, by its protagonists, its consequences and because a serious crime has been committed, Minister. And I don't say that, says that judge who called to testify to the former foreign minister, as an investigator, next October 4. The leader of the Frente Polisario arrived in Spain on April 18. He landed on an Algerian plane at Zaragoza Air Base, without passing border controls or documentation. From there he left in an ambulance to the San Pedro Hospital in Logroño, where he entered with a false passport under the name of Mohamed Benbatouche, until his departure from the country, from Pamplona, on June 2. Everything points to a conscious and coordinated operation to bypass legality - once again - from the highest levels of government, which transcends the isolated actions of the former González Laya and her team. He said that he was the director of the Cabinet of Minister Laya, Mr. Villarino: the government is not a kingdom of taifas. I mean, they're coordinated. But, for the operation, the participation of several departments was necessary. The senior commanders of the Air Force played a role in the arrival of Ghali to Spain via Zaragoza, which points to a necessary collaboration by the Ministry of Defence. The same is true of the actions of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for the deployment of security to Logroño and the false identity of the polysary leader. And Villarino speaks of the involvement of the Ministry of the Presidency; according to his version, a high office of the Ministry of the Presidency called to be interested in the arrival of the Saharan activist. The former chief of staff, Mrs. Calvo, will have to clear this up. Minister, the relevant thing is not who transferred the order, but who gave it, because it has been possible to commit very serious crimes that also involve political responsibilities: to facilitate the entry of the polysary leader with false documentation and not to proceed to his arrest, despite being in search and capture, with a pending case in the National Court. I conclude, Minister, by returning to the beginning of my inquiry. The most serious of all in each of the episodes I have described to you is that the Government as a whole, and particularly its president, continue to argue that breaking down laws is an acceptable option in democracy. The President of the Government stated that Spain did with Ghali what it had to do and what it had to do. Should the government skip the law? I would like you to answer this question. Thank you, Minister. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, when I read your question, I really thought you were coming here to discuss how to build international legality. The issues you have raised here cause me disbelief, because, as you have said, I have just returned from New York, from the United Nations General Assembly, where international legality is created. For the first time since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been able to meet face-to-face and have addressed key issues for the international community. Precisely, the key is how to create an international order based on rules, how to create an international legality. I met with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres. With him, I have addressed his common agenda, in which he proposes to strengthen multilateralism in order to respond to the major challenges facing the entire international community, including the fight against terrorism, the eradication of COVID-19, the promotion of gender equality or the climate emergency. Topics that - you will agree with me - are of particular relevance to the Spanish. [[The Lord]] We already know, for example, that you deny global warming and that you even feed negationism with one goal: to draw political revenue. A few days ago, the European Central Bank published a report stating that the long-term costs of inaction on climate change are much higher than the short-term costs that may arise from the energy transition; I recommend reading to the whole group. But while you are asking obvious questions, this government was working at the United Nations, defending the need to combat the climate emergency, which was the central theme of this General Assembly; it is fighting in which both the European Union and Spain, thanks to this government, are world leaders. I have also been building international legality by co-presiding, on behalf of Spain, on behalf of this Government, the act of honouring the victims of the 11 September attack, together with the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations for the fight against terrorism, so that that memory is the best prevention against that scourge. I have also built that international legality, as you mentioned Ibero-America, meeting with all Ibero-American chancellors to address the appointment of the next Ibero-American secretary-general, a key position to further strengthen the Ibero-American community, what is a natural space we share with our Ibero-American brothers. By the way, everyone congratulated me on the policy of handing over vaccines from this government to Ibero-America and here is the Minister of Health. I also built it at the G20 ministerial meeting, specifically on Afghanistan. I was there with the US minister, with the Chinese, with the Japanese, with the French, with the German, looking together for the best answers for an unprecedented situation; accompanying the President of the Government in his meeting with Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary General of NATO, with a double objective: to deal with the situation in Afghanistan and start preparing for the summit - and that shows him the confidence that our NATO allies have in us - which will take place next year precisely here in Madrid, and that will not be any summit: a new strategic concept of that organization will be adopted. I also met with my Iranian counterpart. For what? To continue working on the evacuation of our Afghan collaborators, as I did moving to Pakistan or Qatar, and to support the implementation of the nuclear agreement, which is a key issue, not only for the Middle East, but for all international security. I don't forget the Spaniards either. There I met with scientists who are based in the United States; he intervened at the Council of the Americas; I met with Hispanics to continue promoting the use of Spanish in the world and, in particular, in the United States. By the way, the United States is a country that considers Spain a key partner and ally, as my counterpart Antony Blinken reiterates, or as Biden, the President of the United States, had the opportunity to transfer President Sánchez. I also met with Jewish associations to convey to them Spain's unequivocal commitment to the fight against the scourge of anti-Semitism. In the meantime, you present an inquiry into an obviousness, and I say an obviousness because it cannot be otherwise: the Government of Spain and the ministry I run act in accordance with democratic legality, apply the existing mechanisms to ensure their respect and take the necessary measures to ensure that it is complied with. Look, with the Ghali case, I understand that they seek to raise suspicion among citizens about the Government's commitment to legality. I'll calm you down. That commitment is total, and I am fully confident that, in this case, it is, too. He tells me he didn't stop me behind officials. You have quoted them on many occasions throughout your speech, because they do not care to question the work of diplomats, the military, the health personnel, all those who act with the conviction to comply with the law on this issue as in all of them. He must understand that these officials act with the conviction of law enforcement, under the leadership of the Government, of course. I insist, do not seek to generate suspicions where they do not exist. Let justice work. He also referred to Latin America. In fact, in this they don't talk about Latin America, because for you there are only three or four Latin American countries. There's a big difference between you and me. I care about all the countries of Latin America, all the brotherly countries of Latin America, whether big, small, have companies or not and whatever their political, economic and social situation, because what interests me are the brotherly peoples of those countries. But I'm not doing it to get political results, as you do, when I relate to Latin America, but because we're really committed to them. We want for Ibero-Americans the same rights, the same freedoms, the same ability to express themselves freely, to associate, but also economic redistribution and social protection that we have here in Spain. For them we want the same as for us and we seek to achieve that goal through dialogue. Look, this government speaks with facts: more than 15 million doses of vaccines donated through the Covax mechanism to Latin America. Since I am a minister, I have met with my counterparts from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Uruguay and Venezuela. As you see, there is no ideological community at all, I don't meet with those who necessarily think like me, because I'm only interested in Latin America. He was talking to me about Bolivia. There has been talk of the officials, of the GEOs. The Government defends and continues to defend the need for transparency in judicial proceedings and respect for the independence of powers in any country, also in Bolivia. The incident you were talking about, you know perfectly well that it resulted in the expulsion by the Government of Spain of two Bolivian diplomats for unacceptable action at the time in Bolivia. With regard to Venezuela, the Government supports and will continue to support the negotiations that have begun both the Government of Venezuela and the opposing forces - they have decided in Mexico - and we will continue with a single objective: free elections, democratic elections. And we will meet all: I have met with Leopoldo López; I have spoken with Capriles, and I have met with the Government of Venezuela. And he was talking about the Delcy case. If you know it's filed, no crime. Why are they bringing him back here? In short, they question in some way all the basic pillars of what is international legality, because you only accept legality when you give them reason. They want to stand as judge and part or, rather, in part, because they are part many times, and judge. But only judges and courts can decide on the legality of proceedings. You have come here to ask me about compliance with the principle of legality in foreign policy, but I should rather ask you, because our Constitution, the Spanish Constitution, contains values and principles widely shared at European level, which are reflected in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. These values were referred to by his spokesman in the European Parliament as an ideologically strong shirt. Can you explain to your voters and the Spaniards which of these values is an ideologically strong shirt? Which one of them isn't up to? With dignity? With freedom? With equality between men and women? With non-discrimination? That's what he called an ideologically strong shirt. Yesterday I had the honour of decorating Spanish officials who, with exemplary dedication and, in some case, at risk for their own lives, have served Spain and helped evacuate our Afghan collaborators. They have helped to place Spain where it is today in the international context: recognized by the whole European Union, by the international community, by our NATO partners, by the President of the United States itself and by the Secretary of State of the United States. That placed Spain, under the leadership of the Government and thanks to the work of all those officials, such as a generous country, a committed country, a country that leaves no one behind. And we're still trying to extract our Afghan collaborators. That is why I tell you that by coming here to spread suspicions and not to let justice work, you also get all that work drunk, you also get the image of Spain drunk. Believe me when I tell you that officials, under the leadership of the Government, no doubt, work daily for the interests of the Spanish. I ask you to let justice work, to leave the times of justice, not to be a party and a judge. I also ask you to recognize the work of the Government by placing Spain where it should and that of all those officials, a work often quiet and discreet, but, after all, a work in the service of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u205	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] You have the word of Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister. I would like to begin by congratulating you, because you normally give yourself a hundred days until you see how a minister acts and, in less than a hundred days, you have discovered what the functions of a foreign minister are. It's impressive, though considering that you're a diplomat doesn't impress me very much. That you've been meeting with people abroad. Well, of course, Minister, that's your job. That you went to the UN. That's good. That you have gone to build international legality. That amazes me more, because you arrive a hundred years late, since Woodrow Wilson did so with the creation of the League of Nations in the 20th century, more than a hundred years ago that you have been in the G20. [[Applauds]] Wonderful. That you've been to the Ibero-American General Secretariat. Well, let's see if we can get her to lead a less sectarian person this time. It is very interesting that you said that you were in NATO with the Secretary-General. I would like to ask you whether you have discussed with him that the Socialist Party has voted against VOX's proposal that Ceuta and Melilla be welcomed under NATO umbrella in the defence of Spain or whether you have circumvented that issue. [[Applauds]] It is very interesting that you have been with the Secretary General of NATO. And then my favorite is that they told you that we are world leaders in climate policy. I don't doubt it. The climate religion, to which you worship with genuine fervor, is indisputable, nothing can be questioned. [[The lady]] But what is also indisputable is that, thanks to that fervor without any sense for climate policy, you have achieved the price of the highest light in the West - surely you have not congratulated him for that -. [[Applauds]] Let him look at it, Minister. Actually, with everything you've told me, you haven't answered anything I've asked you. You came with a speech prepared and you didn't care what I told you. I do take note of what you tell me. Besides, you did the only thing I asked you not to do. He did not answer anything I asked him and he said all I asked him not to do, which is to parapet on the staff. Minister, officials must be respected. Officials haven't been put there for quite a few years before you arrived and will continue when you leave. The officials are from the State, they are from the nation, they are from Spain, and they are not like pawns for you to play with them in chess. [[Applauds]] I told you it's an ugly thing, and you'll notice how you're still trying to capitalize on them. Politicians are not too often up to the level of officials of the Spanish nation. Finally, you say that we pretend to be a judge and a party and that we do not let justice work. Minister, if the complaint of justice is the opposite, it is for making it work too much. Don't you see that we are the popular prosecution in a lot of initiatives? We're in the Supreme, we're in the Constitutional, we're in the High Court, we're in the courts. [[Applauds]] If this is the group that has managed to make justice work more than ever in Spain, unfortunately for the judges and magistrates, whom we do not leave alone, because we are correcting each of the illegalities that you are committing and that we are identifying. We are the party of law and order; and that is what I would like the Socialist Party to assume, the law and order. But you don't comply with the law, and this is really worrying. That non-compliance is recurrent and extremely serious, but when it comes to the subject here you do not want to talk about it and talk to me about other things. And I do not see that there is any hint of rectification, which is definitely catastrophic, Minister. It's more, let's talk about law and justice. The Government has ordered the State Advocate to defend the former foreign minister in the Ghali case, and in so doing has committed another assault, because it has incurred a clear conflict of interest, Minister. Are we still talking about law and justice, law and order? It is up to the judges to qualify the facts and make judgments, but it is also necessary to clear political responsibilities, because, once again, the action of the Government has done irreparable damage to Spain and its international reputation, and I do not say it with satisfaction, I say it with regret. There's never been so much harm done in such a short time. They have not left the territorial conflict undiminished and have placed Spain in a situation of irrelevance and extreme vulnerability. In the world, very important things are happening: China is consolidating itself as a global giant, despite its economic slowdown; Afghanistan passes into the hands of the Taliban; countries seal and consolidate alliances, such as the recent Autos, in which the United States strengthens its alliance with Japan, India and Australia in the Pacific; and Britain, in passing, aims to demonstrate that it can be relevant on the international stage outside the European Union. What is Spain doing? What are we doing in international legality? Well, in the meantime, you're interviewing us with a feminist policy. Really, Minister, that's not where Spain is going to go. Spain will not go ahead and will not regain its prestige with climate and feminist policies. Foreign policy must be based on the defence of the interests of the Spanish nation, and that is what you have to devote to. [[applause]] [[The Lord]] The first of all is compliance with the current law, and if you do not assume that first precept everything else is irrelevant. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u207	To conclude the debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u208	Well, I see you don't want to talk about how to build international legality, but you do want to talk about officials. [[Rumors]] He cited the State Advocate in the Ghali case. Allow me to state, in order for this not to be an issue of opinion, that Article 2 of Chapter I of Law 52/1977 of 27 November 1977 on Legal Assistance to the State and Public Institutions states that State lawyers - I respect and do not interfere with their technical criteria - may assume the representation and defence in the proceedings of the authorities and officials, whatever their procedural position, when the proceedings are followed by acts or actions in the exercise of their office. In this case, I believe that the right to legal aid is clear. But, as I told you before, I think I should almost ask you about the legality of foreign policy. A few months ago, the leader of his party said that he would consider withdrawing from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which obliges him to protect the best interests of the child, a convention that has ratified more than 190 States. Also, some time ago, its leader defended the interference against the Court of Justice of the European Union because he did not share a judgment of that court since Spain should not abide by any judgment of those who attack our sovereignty and security. A Euro MP from his training stated that he did not know where the justice of the European Union came from. The Court of Justice of the European Union, whose jurisdiction in Spain has been freely accepted under a constitutional provision, Article 93, which is as constitutional as all others. Validally concluded international treaties, once published in the Official Gazette of the State, shall form part of the domestic law. Surely it sounds to you, it is the literal tenor of article 96 of the Spanish Constitution, that Constitution that they so claim to defend. Well, you systematically call into question the two basic pillars of international legality: compliance with treaties and the judgments of international tribunals. What you defend is an international society without law, without international treaties, without respect for the judgments of the international courts. And yes, Your Honor, of course we have very different concepts than international legality and the principle of legality in foreign policy. To sum up, you accept legality only when you give them reason, you stand in part and judge. But who guarantees the application of legality but the judges and the courts? Its spokesman has spoken publicly in favour of throwing a corrupt caste of communist judges into another country of the European Union. Is that your concept of legality in foreign policy? Is that your concept of judicial independence? I remind you that without an independent judiciary there is no one to guarantee respect for legality, neither in internal policy nor in foreign policy. The model defended by this Government is the opposite. It is a government that not only defends, of course, but extends the rights of Spanish women and Spanish women, and the guarantee of these rights is an independent justice and also an international legality that serves as a last resort when people of extreme ideas want to undermine the legality of a country. This government always complies with the law, always and everywhere, and the government abides by all sentences; not like you, who say that it should only be done with those that interest you. The Government and public servants act under the leadership and leadership of the Government, in full respect of both internal and external legality; I assure you, Your Honor. Internal legality cannot be interpreted as it suits you, as you do, and international legality cannot be denied, as you do, because it exists, whether you like it or not. I repeat that this Government defends and will defend the interests of our country. And, yes, I have done it in the G20, I have done it within NATO, I have done it within the Ibero-American Community of Nations; I did it by going to Pakistan, by going to Qatar, by interviewing the Foreign Minister of Iran, with all those border countries in the crisis in Afghanistan, and I will continue to do so, of course, always respecting, as is obvious, the principle of legality. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the measures envisaged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and accidents in aquatic areas. [[Señor Quevedo ITURBE]] [[File number 172/000135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u210	Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Quevedo Iturbe, into the measures envisaged to reduce disaster caused by drowning and accidents in aquatic areas. For your defence, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Minister. New Canarias today brings to this House an urgent inquiry into an issue that we could label as a silent and silent epidemic. This question leads us to the figure of eighty thousand dead, which for the times that we are still passing and which the minister knows perfectly well is a figure that can seem anything to us. We've gotten used to this, but the truth is that's the exception. The truth is that this phenomenon had not occurred in a hundred years - it is important that the minister listens to it - so that talking about the figures we are going to talk about now in the context of a pandemic that has caused and continues to cause terrible damage in the Spanish State could seem anything. However, that is not the case, and I will try to prove it. We are concerned about the measures envisaged by the Government to reduce disaster caused by drowning and accidents in water spaces. Someone might think that this issue affects only the territories dedicated to sun and beach tourism, where people bathe all year - the Canary Islands know something about that - but it is not. This issue not only affects the Spanish communities that have costs, but also the communities of the interior, as we will see later in the data. As soon as it is investigated, there will be no official statistics clearly disaggregated in relation to this phenomenon, as you know for sure. I have to say that I could not have defended this inquiry and the motion - it has already been announced, as you can suppose - without the collaboration of an organization of Gran Canaria that is called Canarias 1500 km from Costa, directed by a grancanario, Don Sebastián Quintana. It is impressive the extraordinary impact that that work of collecting information that was not anywhere and putting white on black what we are talking about has had on seven years. I have to make it clear here that there are other types of diving accidents that are not the subject of this inquiry but are always in our minds, the number of people who die trying to find a better life, especially on the Atlantic route. It's not that the Mediterranean is short, but unfortunately, we have the most dangerous route of all, and I don't even want to think about how many people who have actually died-repeated: who really died - because it's probably ten times more than official statistics say. The fact is, therefore, that there are no statistics on this issue, but there are people who have done a very important job of collecting information, as I have just mentioned. Every year an average of five hundred people lose their lives in Spain. Informal calculations show that around 1500 people suffer an accident every year in our country in coasts, pools, swamps, lakes, rivers, etc., and among them there are an average of forty children who lose their lives for this cause in our country. Compared to other well-known and well-identified causes of death, it turns out that in Spain, for example, more people lose their lives by drowning than by accidents at work or by fire. In the case of the Canary Islands, which you know perfectly well, drowning is the first cause of death by accident, doubling year after year to those killed by traffic accidents. The data is tremendous, because, as is known, the root causes of death in the developed world are strokes and cardiovascular, cancer and traffic accidents. It is true that in the Canary Islands this figure is associated with the largest influx of tourists and it is also true that the number of foreign deaths in the State as a whole is 30% and in the Canary Islands 80%, but this has nothing to do with the activity that is taking place. By the way, foreigners too deserve attention on this issue. The question is what has been done with this. It's true that it's not simple. The dispersion of the data is there and it has been necessary for someone to take care of this. Interestingly enough, the World Health Organization and the United Nations have been engaged. The World Health Organization says that drowning - not just in Spain - represents the third non-traumatic cause of death worldwide. It's a tremendous figure. It is a 2014 WHO report that literally defines drowning as a world-class public health problem. It is also true that WHO recognizes that it has data, and calculates four hundred thousand people a year across the planet, but there are accumulated data that speak of more than one million victims annually. Five months ago, the United Nations launched a first-time warning in history, adopting a resolution signed by 194 countries and urging nations to enact laws, develop national drowning prevention plans and promote public awareness and prevention campaigns to reduce drowning. The European Union, according to the only approximate study that we have on the table, which is precisely that of the Canary Islands Platform 1500 km from Costa - you see, we are leaders in this beyond our borders, which is not a small thing - numbers at least five thousand human beings who lose their lives drowned every year. The WHO report itself states that drowning is one of the leading causes of premature death in the fifty-three countries of the European region, with more than 27,000 victims. This set of figures does not allow us to look elsewhere. In the Spanish state there is a very strong campaign for the prevention of traffic accidents and the promotion of road safety - 90 million euros this year - which is very well-only I had to fight with that - or for the prevention of fires, but do you know how much it is intended for this topic? Zero euros. There are only two communities in the Spanish State, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands, which have somehow regulated this issue with decrees on bathing conditions for people, although they are absolutely insufficient for what is intended. This is insufficient. We have the historic opportunity - Mr Sebastián Quintana says a lot, and he is right - to worry and deal with this issue, because this must not continue to be an ignored risk. It is a public health problem, and I know that I will understand this perfectly with the Minister. Public health problems are public health problems, and when we abandon the brutal figures we handle in relation to COVID we will realize that we are talking about very important figures. The report prepared by drowning.com - by the way, I think it is an association of Segovia, which shows that it is not only a problem of coastal territories - says that between 2017 and 2020 in Spain 2093 people died in 3774 accidents, with 5000 total victims; of the deceased, 140 were minors. When that happens to 140 families, it's definitely ruined their lives, which is why it's a fact that I think needs to be highlighted. I therefore believe that what we are proposing is something reasonable. In the motion that will result from this inquiry, we put to the Government a set of specific questions, which is when it is, but now I am very interested to hear the minister on this issue. It is true that drownings do not belong exclusively to territories with large coastlines. The Spanish state as a whole has 8000 kilometers of coast, which is not bad, the Canary Islands has 1500, which is also not bad, much more than the 4.6 that we represent of the whole Spanish population. But it is also true that this phenomenon does not affect only the territories in which the sea lives throughout the year, as is the case with the Canary Islands. We have an opportunity for the Spanish State to be the first State in the European Union to explicitly regulate the prevention of drowning accidents. This will require a set of tools or instruments - I imagine now something will tell us the minister - and that we put these statistics in the first division. It is not reasonable that when we try to find real statistics about what happens to drowning in Spain we find that there is confusion with drowning. I mean, there's really no such consciousness in the INE, and I think it's time to act multiplely on this phenomenon. It is clear that the competencies above all are of the local corporations, which are the ones that take care of their beaches, but it is also true that it is important that there are tools of a state nature to support the actions of others and that it is recognized that this has to entail some kind of budget allocation, and not only for promotion, but also for action. I guess that's the ground where we have to move to not be doing one of those interrogations and then motions, which become more of a toast to the sun than anything else. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u212	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister of Health then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Quevedo, good morning. In our country, as his lordship has well reported, thanks to the extension of beaches and other bathing places, as well as the good climate we also enjoy, bathing, diving, swimming, water sports are usual recreational activities and promote an active life. However, it is important to recognize that these activities can lead to some risks and to know that they can be prevented. [[The lady]] To contextualize, I would like to go on to explain that in Spain drownings, as has been mentioned, are the third cause of death of the so-called external causes, being especially relevant that of the younger ones, for seeing their lives truncated early. Also, ladies and gentlemen, there are injuries with serious consequences, such as head trauma and spinal cord injuries, with important consequences for people and for society. In order to respond to this initiative, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to do so from different areas, at international level, at national level, and also at regional and local level, since, as our Constitutional Court has made clear, we are faced with competing competences, as is evident, for example, in the case of our autonomous community - let me refer to it here - with our status of autonomy, also at regulatory level and with Royal Decree 116/2018 of 30 July, regulating measures for the application of standards and instructions on human security and coordination in civil protection emergencies on beaches and other maritime bathing areas in the Canary Islands, as well as at municipal level. At the international level, you also referred to the call for attention to drowning disaster and water accidents made by the United Nations General Assembly on 28 April, by adopting Resolution 75/273, on global drowning prevention, and also by declaring - it is an issue that I have not pointed out or heard from your Lordship - on 25 July as the World Day for the Prevention of drowning, urging countries to move forward in this field with relevant proposals. I think we can work together to go to the next call with a package of measures, both with which we already have and with which we can continue to implement. There are some aspects that reflect the UN resolution that the ministry is already working on and that I would like to share with your honor. First, the resolution establishes the importance of assigning a national focal point for the prevention of drowning; this ministry already has it, is the General Directorate of Public Health, specifically the area of prevention of the General Directorate for the Promotion of Prevention and Quality. Secondly, the UN resolution refers to the establishment of national drowning prevention plans. In Spain we have the Health Promotion and Prevention Strategy in the National Health System. I believe that this strategy is important, but it can be updated, as other strategies are, which can be some of the measures that can also be implemented, and which I offer to your honor, as we are doing with other strategies. It also establishes the UN resolution on the importance of drowning prevention programmes. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the scope of action of different administrations, in accordance with the respective areas of competence: the installation of barriers, supervision, rescue training, resuscitation, the regulation of recreational navigation - very important also on the coasts, for example, of the Canary Islands -, or also the safety measures in the bathing areas that regulate the same decree to which I have just referred, 116, of the Canary Islands, as well as the local corporations, which you so well know in your condition, let me say, of councillor of the City of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria. To continue with this example, which helps us to contextualize in a community, ours, which has it regulated and regulated, in article 6 of the decree that I have cited, it is established that it is for the municipalities to draw up and approve the security and rescue plans on each of the beaches, which is fundamental. I also agree with you on the importance of having accurate databases and data records that allow us to do so. We have collected it, Mr. Quevedo, and it is the National Plan of the INE. However, it needs to be substantially improved, and I shall refer to that. And, of course, the need to carry out public awareness campaigns. In this regard, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health has been very active because we do awareness campaigns and do so through not only press releases, but also in front of the networks. [[The Lord]] However, if there is room for improvement, we are always ready to improve, as it cannot be otherwise. We believe that we are facing close collaboration, and we are also doing so with WHO, Your Honor, from a multisectoral collaboration to increase public awareness of drowning, through strategic communication, to the availability of data and studies to facilitate early prevention. In Spain the incidence is high, certainly. It is true that comparing figures can give us a wrong dimension, but whenever we talk about the loss of human lives we understand that there is a pain, especially if it is avoidable, which I think is where there is room for further intervention. We have drowning INE data, but it's 2018. In 2018, according to official data, Mr Quevedo, 526 people died in Spain as a result of serious injuries in the aquatic environment, being the main cause of this death drowning due to accidental immersion, with a total of 483. We are talking about 526 people who died in 2018, 413 men and 113 women - and also here there is a margin to move forward in the data - of which 483 were drowning - and here we also see that there is a very important margin of men with regard to women - 378 men and 105 women. The places where they are produced is where there are natural waters, as can be our beaches, but also in swamps, rivers and, of course, pools. Therefore, it is not just a matter of coasts. I would also like to express my public appreciation, Mr Quevedo, to the NGO 'Canarias, 1500 km from Costa' and to a person known to all and much appreciated, Sebastián Quintana, for the work he is doing in raising awareness and also the support of the Canary public administrations - island cabildo, municipalities and government of the Canary Islands - in order to be able to do so. First, for this ministry and for this minister it is a matter of priority public health - I want to make it clear in this appearance that I am doing as a result of your inquiry - but I also think it is very important that we all act on the safety of the environments. And there is a shared responsibility, Mr Quevedo, from the various municipalities with beach councils, island lobbyists or provincial councils, if any, or councils, to, of course, the autonomous communities. Whatever is meant to guarantee the bathing areas will go in the right direction. Also information campaigns - this is very important - especially cross-sectoral, and awareness campaigns. On our website we have the campaign Sign up to a healthier lifestyle, which I think would be important to extend to the educational sphere-Mr. Quevedo, I think there is a possible scope for transferring information to act together - and, above all, I think that the infographics we have are very important, one of them 'Enjoy the water this summer with safety', which we have also done in the context of the pandemic, because it was also very important to incorporate gradually after the health crisis. I believe, Mr Quevedo, that there is something else that needs to be improved. Why do we have INE data only for 2018? It is one of the questions that this minister has asked herself, and perhaps your ladies and gentlemen too. We have a system of information on aquatic occurrences, known as Aquaticus, which is regulated by ministerial order of the year 2015, created by royal decree, and which establishes the obligation of the autonomous communities to notify the Ministry of Health of the occurrences that occur in swimming pools, other bathing areas and other aquatic environments. However, I have to point out to you that this system is being underused and therefore we have a margin for improvement to have more up-to-date data, which I think is very important to assess these issues. For this reason, I intend to raise within the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System what improvements we can implement, what barriers and difficulties are encountered in this notification and thus achieve an optimization of resources. In 2019 not all Autonomous Communities notified. It has therefore not been possible to update it. Nor do we have the data for the year 2021. Mr Quevedo, I think it is important to recognize what is already being done. The Ministry of Health is not standing on this issue, but on the contrary. I have already told you throughout my presentation those issues that are already a reality, on which we are working; other issues on which we can continue to implement and improve reality, and above all how to do it by the hand of those who have the skills. In a decentralized system like ours, you will understand the utmost respect for co-governance, but I would like to work together. We have data from the Canary Islands of 2021, Mr Quevedo, provided in this case by the delegation, and from what we know - I don't know if they match yours - to date there have been 33 deaths. It is true that there are islands with greater differences than others, Mr Quevedo. Given the 1500 kilometres of coastline we have, there is also room for improvement in all autonomous communities. You know that we understand each other well, we have understood each other well, and I am convinced that we will continue to understand each other well, especially in order to continue working in an area of preventable deaths, therefore of utmost interest to the whole House - I understand that also to your honor, who has formulated this inquiry - and, of course, to this minister. Above all, we must be able to continue to raise awareness, Mr Quevedo. The best measure we can apply is to raise awareness at all levels, also in the field of tourism. Since your responsibility, you can do something in your area of responsibility, in your municipal sphere, because it is true that many of the victims have to do with foreigners who believe that our coasts are meek and do not know the currents that may exist or the dangers and challenges that any bathing area hides if not acted with caution and knowledge of reality. Therefore, Mr Quevedo, I am at your disposal to continue to advance and improve on a shared subject, with a common responsibility in all the administrations that make up the fabric of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u215	Hello, everybody again. Minister, I didn't expect any less from you. The matter has been thoroughly studied, so I have seen. I have to point out, first of all, that some positive effect would have to have the pandemic, and one of them has been on drowning, because it is clear that underutilization of this type of space has diminished the frequency of cases, quite clearly. Therefore, it is important to bear in mind that the data we are using during this stage must be carefully analyzed. We know that there are 200 drowning deaths in Spain at this point, when the average is 500 per year. That's the way it is, and that's how we recognize it. It would be strange if this were not to be understood as a public health problem, but it is certainly not very clear and this is a matter on which we need to improve. I think I got it from your intervention. Obviously, the best elements of dissemination of data and images that I know about this subject are precisely those of the Association 'Canarias 1500 km de Costa', which have turned the world around and which are in eight languages; that is so. Which doesn't mean I don't know that there's a concern - there just wasn't - but it's necessary to be more forceful. I have no doubt about this. He has also spoken of something that is very important and more important to a canary Member, who is the question of co-governance, of respect for institutional spaces, of course. It is clear that this work in isolation, in each of the institutional spaces, will respect very much the independence of each of the fields, but will be less effective. It is clear that the areas of competence of each one must be respected - it was only necessary that the one speaking to him should not be believed that, when it is precisely the primum moves of the organization to which I belong! - but it is also absolutely true that there must be a certain level of coordination of a state nature. There must be a level of shared and reliable information of a state nature and there must also be elements of a financial nature so that each of the institutional areas can develop its competences. In Las Palmas de Gran Canaria - this is well-known and I too - this is what Playas is dealing with, is done by my colleague José Eduardo Ramírez, who is the councillor of the area, and it is evident that a great effort is being made, but it is also evident that where this initiative has arisen has been in Gran Canaria, despite all this effort. I've seen some videos developed by 'Canarias, 1500 km from Costa' that I recommend to you extraordinarily, because I think they are... Replacing the red flag with a light, which is in one of the videos I've seen, seems to me a brilliant idea. Because, in the end, a red flag does not cease to be for many people a trappy that waves in some places of the beaches with little respect for what that means, as we have seen. Most accidents are caused by baths in areas theoretically prohibited by red flag. Therefore, it does not work, it is insufficient. I have well understood what you are putting to me and in the motion we will try to be rigorous on this subject. I believe that there is a need for coordination without invading areas of competition, as is natural. And there will also have to be some kind of understanding about the problems of certain local areas, especially when it comes to developing powerful campaigns because the resources are what you know. We need different plans. I therefore thank you for the well-documented reply and trust that we can reach an agreement to improve what is clearly better, which is nothing but the prevention of drowning by immersion in the Spanish State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u216	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Quevedo, this long-standing knowledge of us has its advantages. For now there are no drawbacks, but quite the opposite. Of course, out of respect for you and this House, one has to be documented with reality and with proposals for improvement, always. Having a vision and ambition to keep moving is something that belongs to someone who has a public responsibility, and you know it well. I believe that there is nothing more to add to what you have said, if any issues that seem important to me. You will agree with me in highlighting the important role of emergency services, of everyone in general, but I will continue to refer to the Canary Islands, the Cecóes, the 112 Canary Islands, as I believe it is fundamental and commendable to the work that you do permanently, and more now. Let me also make a reference to La Palma, for all the suffering that is going on, and also to the plan put in place by the Government of Spain, with the Government of the Canary Islands, with the Cabildo de La Palma and all the local administrations to give a response to La Palma. I would also like to highlight the emergency work of local municipalities and corporations, as well as the work being done on the beaches with the very important collaboration of services with the Red Cross in order to have those relief posts, in case there is any warning. I believe that the Interterritorial Council National Health System is a good area, as well as the Health Promotion Strategy, and we can work on it. Things are being done, but of course, to avoid any kind of preventable death, there is always room for improvement. It is a public health priority and we need to improve the data. I think there is room for improvement because it is regulated but for various reasons it has not been possible to do so. It is true that the pandemic has kept us all occupied in the emergency, but it is a tremendously important issue to be addressed. At this closing time I would like to thank the intervention and interest in this initiative, which, I have no doubt, will allow us to continue improving and saving lives. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR TO PROTECT TO OUR FORCES AND SAFETY BODIES OF THE STATE IN CATALUNIA. [[File number 172/000134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u219	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Ministry of the Interior to protect our State Security Forces and Bodies in Catalonia. For your defense, you have the word of Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister of the Interior, what measures will you take to protect our State Security Forces and Bodies operating in Catalonia? We have been watching the Spanish for decades how street terrorism, kale borroka, organized crime from the institution itself of the Generality, when not of its organs and satellite associations, campes to its wide. Be it separatism, like ERC, be it the extreme left, like Podemos, be it the anti-system or the Okupas: hatred, violence and damage to the stream, real crime professionals on the streets. Against who? Against the State Security Forces and Corpses, against the National Police and the Civil Guard, against the institutions of the State, starting with the Crown, with the flag that represents us all, with the ministries, with the Government of the nation, with the officials, with all that represents the State and the nation in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Also, Minister, against those parties that face separatism, that take them to court and that defend freedom, national sovereignty and the unity of the nation in Catalonia. Those are today, regrettably, partners of the government of Pedro Sánchez, all of them: those of hatred, those of violence and those of the permanent attack on our State Security Forces and Bodies. This was markedly increased by the coup d'état of October 1, 2017, and the harassment reached such a level that they even surrounded and attacked the Civil Guard barracks and the National Police stations. The Palau de la Música was attacked, the Parliament of Catalonia was attacked, the Barcelona Stock Exchange, the police station and the Directorate of the National Police in Via Layetana, El Prat airport, the lines of communication, the AVE, the highways were directly attacked; containers and urban furniture were burned, vehicles and streets were destroyed, agents were attacked, but this is no longer news. For decades we have to put up with all the Spaniards and especially those who live in Catalonia and who do not agree to put themselves under the boot of separatism and the extreme left. [[Applauds]] At times, more than 6000 demonstrators and damages have exceeded EUR 1 million, and all this, Minister, under the supposed protection of the right to freedom of expression, demonstration and that supposed right of self-determination. That's what gives them carte blanche, a letter of nature to do whatever it takes with freedom, with the rule of law and with order. Minister, before this, our agents, as associations and unions of the State Security Forces and Corps have denounced to the full, are demanding means, because they do not have enough staff. I am not aware that this Government has increased the number of calls for objections to entry into public places. We already know; compared to what the People's Party did, we should almost congratulate them. But the problem is in Catalonia, where the IPU, the UPR, the GRS, the information services are becoming increasingly thinner. They do not have the right anti-disturbation material, they are aged; vehicles are not the right ones and they are not allowed - which is the most serious - when the times come when they have to act, to use that anti-disturbation material. We have trucks that throw water, but when there are large demonstrations, they are not allowed to go to support the agents who are on the street. Without legal support - because they do not have it - without proper instructions, our agents complain that they have no institutional support, that their actions are always questioned and the Government never comes out to defend them and tell them that they are fulfilling their duty. This is having a very serious impact on the rule of law and security. Look - you know it -, more than 800 transfers in what goes on in the year, requests for transfers of agents who no longer want to serve in Catalonia. Among them, for example, in the National Police, 25% of the basic scale and 50% of non-commissioned officers and officers. If something were missing from these agents, not only do they not have the sufficient number of staff and the necessary means, but they do not even have a fair remuneration, because a wage increase is not a fair and real wage equalization as they deserve, at least in equivalence to the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Applauds]] We have urged the Government with different initiatives to declare Catalonia an area of special singularity, as was the Basque Country since 1980. That would give them a special pay and supplement that would allow them to compensate, to some extent, for the danger and the penosity of working in such a difficult and conflictive place. But harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies is not only against their agents, but also, as they are denouncing, against their own family members and family businesses. Even these miserable teachers' costumes attack and harass the children of officers in schools. Our agents feel there is institutional disloyalty. They do their duty and the state washes their hands, probably because this government is not going to defend them from who their parliamentary partners are, because they need their support to keep sitting on the blue bench; sitting when they are sitting, because most of the time there are empty armchairs. [[Applauds]] Minister, this institutional disloyalty, this helplessness, is what leads the agents to claim this area of special singularity. But look at what we have come to: after that professional and heroic behavior of the agents in the midst of the pandemic, who did a great humanitarian, social, professional work, they had to suffer the comparative aggravation by these miserable Generality who left them behind in the vaccines. Look what happened: even those agents who voluntarily wanted to get vaccinated could not do so. The High Court of Justice of Catalonia had to intervene on 24 March, when the situation was as follows: Mossos d'Esquadra who were vaccinated, 77 %; Local police, 69 %; Guardia Urbana, 77,9 %. How many people were vaccinated from the National Police on that date? 3.6% of its staff. And the Civil Guard? 2.8%. I mean, they didn't even defend them in protecting their health when they were giving it everything in this pandemic. Or, for example, they did not even exercise the mechanisms that the Government has when the powers of the State Security Forces and Bodies are trampled or usurped in Catalonia, and the Government can exercise the resources of conflict of jurisdiction vis-à-vis the Generality. And you know what I'm talking about? To the Maritime Police Unit of the Mossos d'Esquadra. When, in 1991, and in compliance with the exclusive competence of 149.1 of the Constitution, the Civil Guard of the Sea was created for the protection of the territorial waters of Spain, it turns out that the Mossos d'Esquadra created their Maritime Police, in clear usurpation of functions, both for the control of fishing, trade, drug trafficking, or the maritime sport issue. They also created an aquatic unit to compete, and also usurp functions, with the Civil Guard GEAS. You know the reality, Minister. I don't know if they're blowing it right now, but I'm going to tell you: the National Commission for the Coordination of the Judicial Police - which is that body in which the Ministry of the Interior is, as you know, the General Council of the Judiciary and those internal councils of the autonomous communities that have competence - agreed in 2019, according to the functions set out in the Constitution, that the only one that had competence in maritime police policy was the Civil Guard and, since then, no case. Therefore - and with this I am ending - Minister, do you intend to take any effective action - not speeches or words - to protect the agents of the National Police and the Civil Guard and the officials who carry out their duty, with loyalty to Spain, with professionalism, with sacrifice, and above without means, without remuneration and without legal protection? Are you going to do something to defend those who defend us, for those who defend the Constitution, for those who defend freedom, that with which some are always filled their mouths, but who want to trample, with which some want to end? And you know who's protecting her? For it is protected by these police, these civilian guards; also by the judges, also by the prosecutors and also by some in the exercise of our public office. But the reality, Minister, is that this government has turned its back on the State Security Forces and Bodies in Catalonia. And if you think that what this Member is saying on behalf of Spain's third political force is a lie or an exaggeration, you just have to do one thing: take a look around Catalonia, talk to agents without cameras and photographers, and tell them what's going on, tell them what they're living; perhaps your government would have a little sensitivity. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u221	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u222	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ortega Smith, allow me, after listening to your presentation, where you portray a reality in Catalonia, which you see, and which - I would like to say to you with the utmost respect, as always - you see that your parliamentary group - in my view - ignores the Spanish reality and especially ignores the Catalan society and reality, allow me to say, to you, that you take up the original formulation of the same question in which you are asking the Government about - as you said - the measures that will be taken to protect our State Security Forces and Bodies. And allow me, Your Honor, to highlight two elements of that text, which they want to make seem harmless, but which I do not think they are. First of all, the use of the term - in quotes - 'our', because I would like to think - I ask you to confirm it by nodding or simply denying - that when you use the 'our' to refer to the State Security Forces and Bodies, if you include me, for example; yes, they include, in general, people - who, by the way, are many more - that we do not think like you. Because it seems that, once again, you try to appropriate something that is not yours and that your partners - yes, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - cut, professionally discredit and worsen your working conditions every time you rule. I would like to make this clear, Your Honor, because if you continue in that persistent attitude of misappropriation of national symbols, institutions or State Security Forces and Corpses, you will have the Government facing you. And in the area of my competence, within the Ministry of the Interior, I will not tire of repeating it, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros: leave the National Police alone, leave the Civil Guard alone. The second term of your text to which you must pay attention is 'protect'. The verb protecting, according to the dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language, means the action of protecting and favoring; also, protecting a person from harm or danger. In short, we can use the verb "protect" to speak of measures in a given context, not in contexts such as the one you have described, such as those described in parliamentary initiatives in that sense - I remind you, more than anything, because in that policy of the short and stick that you practice you have a non-law proposal, I give you the registration number, 152 961 with the same arguments of today - contexts, said, like those you describe, in which there would be harassment and harassment of the State Security Forces and Bodies in order to abandon Catalonia, a context, Your Honor, which does not correspond to reality for two very simple reasons, and travelled continuously to Catalonia. The vast majority of Catalan society wants to live freely and, also, safely. Unlike other times when the officials of the Ministry of the Interior were dedicated to organizing patriotic police, making tailor-made reports or, more simply, to visiting the south while it was snowing or an illegal referendum was taking place, there is now a ministry and a team that has turned what was once more into anecdotes, so you have no real events, serious facts to state in your intervention. But, Your Honor, I want to take advantage of your inquiry and I will take your verb 'protect' in the sense I want to believe, and we believe a majority of Spaniards, which must be taken: to protect and favor; in one word, to care for, word and concept that I invite you to use more often because it really humanizes our reality. To protect and favor, to care for the State Security Forces and Bodies - of all and of all - the Government is very clear on the road in relation to the situation in Catalonia: politics and dialogue. Solving problems, not deepening them. Mr President, the interpellation group constantly describes in all kinds of initiatives a reality in which independence is equated with violence, and independence - with which the Government does not agree - as I said this morning, it is not violence, it is a political position. A reality in which, according to you, the Security Forces and Corpses even fear one another. And it's not like that. This can be done perhaps out of ignorance, which is not your case; I would say it is out of bad faith. And it is that when I hear these speeches, always overworked, hyperventilated, the exaggeration continues, combined, as I said at the beginning, with the patrimonialization of certain institutions that are of all. You remind me of separators, that concept portrayed by the Segovian socialist Anselmo Carretero, defender of a plural identity as a fortress of our country and never of disunity. In his talks with Salvador de Madariaga, Carretero - and this is a very topical appointment - he said, and I open quotes: The separators, by denying Spanish to everything that is not like them, expel millions of compatriots from Spain. Fortunately, in our country there is a Government that is carrying out political work with the self-government institutions of Catalonia since the joint commitment to find solutions to the problems. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I am more than convinced that this work, this will of meeting, pact and agreement will improve coexistence and bring problems to which we should never have arrived. I am convinced of this because I am part of this Socialist Party, which has been a member of more than 142 years of history and has been a protagonist in the recovery and overcoming of other conflicts with dialogue, agreement and always consensus. A party that is very clear, as it is also United We can, that the Constitution mandates us to understand ourselves to resolve differences. Therefore, the first step to take care of public employees of the State Administration, public employees of the Ministry of the Interior, is to solve problems, not to make them worse. But, of course, what would be yours if there was no chrispation? Nothing or almost nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, it is called upon, the government is urged to protect, to take care of the security forces and bodies - I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that of all -. For that, the first thing is to respect them, which is what this government does; for example, not to link them, as the leader of his party recently did, with operations of false flag; for example - I have already told you - not to take advantage of them; nor to confront other police forces such as the Mossos d'Esquadra, with which there is magnificent cooperation and coordination. It is very simple, Your Honor, to take care of our Security Forces and Corpses, and to provide them with adequate means, and we do. I will give you data, because, I'm sorry, your account of the reality of the Security Forces and Corpses in Catalonia does not correspond to reality. The National Police has not left Catalonia; it has 3,400 more troops than when I took office as a minister on June 7, 2018. In order to take this into account, the occupation catalogue is above the national average by 91,13 %. The Civil Guard is also more effective than when I took office; in the autonomous community, in addition to the organizational units, reserve units, such as the GAR, the Reserve and Security Group, the RS, cover the catalogue of jobs above 80%, and take into account that we are in a process of increasing places as a result of the three public job offers, with replacement rates above 115 %. We also need material resources and infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen. We do this: almost 20 million euros of the Infrastructure Plan are for actions in infrastructure of the National Police and the Civil Guard in Catalonia. They need working and remunerative conditions. We do, too. I will not tire of remembering that the whole of the Security Forces and Corpses have been benefited since 2020 by the implementation of the Pay Equalization Agreement, an agreement that, as I have already pointed out on several occasions, I found myself in 2018 stored in a drawer and that we had to implement in three sections in record time, consolidating more than 807 million in the State General Budgets for the payroll of the National Police and the Civil Guard, which has resulted in an average increase in November 2020 of around 20% of the salaries of the Security Forces and Corpses, with effect from 1 January of the previous year. On these three pillars, more means, better infrastructure and better working conditions, this ministry works and will continue to work, because obviously there is still a lot of parliament, quiet, more than two years. And we also have a government security program, which the noise generated by groups like yours won't stop us from moving forward. I conclude, President, and I do so by recalling my initial reflections. His interpellation is an example of a search - and I say this to you with all due respect - for the confrontation between people and institutions, and even between the Forces and Security Corps; I sincerely ask him not to continue there. The Government of Spain works with the Generalitat of Catalonia in the dialogue to resolve political issues, and in the area of security the State Security Forces and Bodies, of all, what they require are adequate personal means, decent infrastructure as well as adequate working conditions. That is what this Government is working on, with the conviction that the Department of the Interior integrates hundreds of thousands of public employees who ensure that our rights are realized and that our society is fully free to continue living as we choose. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u223	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I deny you the greatest. Yes, they're our State Security Forces and Corpses. We do not make a misappropriation, as you have said, and that, as you are well aware, it is a crime, neither of the flag of Spain nor of its anthem; neither of the Armed Forces nor of the State Security Forces and Bodies; nor of the name of Spain or of its institutions. It is not a problem, Minister, that we take what is not ours, but that others have abandoned what was theirs and we defend it alone. [[Applauds]] This is the big difference. How dare you, Minister? How dare you not let the face of shame fall to address the third political force of Spain, which represents more than four million at the moment, and tell you, that mantra which you repeat to the point of satiety, that we want a small Spain, a Spain in which only those who think like us, a Spain from which we want, according to you, to expel everyone? You know that that's a lie; it's just the opposite, we fight those who want to throw out of Spanish territory those who don't think like them, those parents who want to educate their children without imposing the Catalan language without being able to speak Spanish, or Galicia, or the Basque Country; those who had to run away from the Basque Country because their lives are not guaranteed; those entrepreneurs, thousands of companies, who have had to leave Catalonia. Those, those who are their partners, are the ones who expel all those who do not submit to the boot. [[Applauds]] The problem, Minister, is not that we, as you said at the beginning of your speech, see a distorted reality, is that you and your partners, in that social democratic consensus that some have bought them - socialists, communists, progress and complex - try to cover up that part of the reality that you know you don't like, understand and don't support. You say the State Security Forces and Corps want us to leave them alone. I believe that what you want is to have a ministry of the Interior that protects you, that gives you sufficient resources, that you remember them, that you listen to them and that you don't deceive them, that you don't sell them as salary equals what is an insufficient salary increase, that you don't tell them that they have more people when they don't let them act, as we could see in those figures of the coup d'état, where we were in hotels where the GRS and the IPU were held without being able to help their colleagues, that they were in a minority in front of the hordes in the streets of Barcelona or Tarragona, that reality that you hide and have your media transmission belts so that the truth is not known. [[applause]] By the way, this brings to my mind something important that has happened in a town in Murcia, in Torre Pacheco. How little have you talked about what a jihadist terrorist attack is, how little have you said there has been a murder, a victim and many wounded, how you try to camouflage it. [[applause]] That's right, you have an impressive ability to uplift the speaker as soon as it sounds to you that there may have been a homophobic attack and how quickly you keep quiet when you know it was a false denunciation. You can see the plumer. It's not that we distort reality or that we invent it, it's that we're raising the heels and carpets of reality that you want to hide in all the terrain, because you lie, because you cheat, because you hide what's happening in Spain. [[applause]] Do you know what's going on, Minister? That on many issues you will be able to use your machacona propaganda for a while, but every day that happens less Spaniards believe their lies, their whoredoms and their manipulations, and especially, believe me, minister - you know, though from this rostrum you will say the opposite a thousand times -, to whom you do not deceive, minister of the Interior, is not a single national police officer or any civilian guard. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u225	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of the Interior has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u226	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ortega Smith, sadly he is still in the patrimony of the State Security Forces and Corpses, sadly he is still distorting reality, sadly he is still trying to win over society. And this society is already tired of its attitude, of its conduct of chrispation, of alteration. This society wants consensus, work, management, which is what this progressive government is doing. Good thing you said today at a social-democratic time. Of course, socialist, progressive and democratic, of course. And I tell you again: drag fishing in politics, which is what you practice, is a bad technique. They continue to seek to turn into a general category mere isolated facts effectively resolved by police collaboration. In fact, in their initiatives they are unable - and I will remind you - to go beyond describing personal messages. They have no facts, no account, no account! You persist in moving a reality that is not true. I say to you again that there is no deficit - now you have not said it in this reply - neither the national police nor the civil guard, they provide services more agents - you have no longer had the possibility to deny it - nothing less than 6800 agents - the police and the civil guards - more since my inauguration. In short, it persists in describing a reality that is neither that of Catalonia nor that of the rest of Spain; nor that of the State Security Forces and Bodies or that of the local or autonomous police, and it seeks to do so, in my opinion, with a threefold purpose: to confront Catalan society with the society of the rest of Spain, because, as I have already said, you do not know how to do politics if it is not facing people, crisping; to confront constitutional institutions, because to you what bothers you is that this Government - the Government of Spain - and the Generalitat of Catalonia can renew the difficulties that we have experienced in recent years, and, what is worse and I do not think - I will use this word - to tolerate as responsible for this department, to confront police bodies among themselves in order to patriminate one another and demonize others, as it has done in this rostrum. I repeat to you again: the competences between the whole of the Security Forces and Corpses are maintained as established by the National Commission of Judicial Police of 2019, in which this minister was present. I therefore reiterate to you: leave the National Police alone, leave the Civil Guard alone and, I would dare to tell you too, the Mossos d'Esquadra. If you want to propose measures, do so. Unlike you, the Government believes in dialogue, as I have said, and we will take your proposals into account if it really does. What we are not going to allow is for them to propose measures from false reasonings and stories and an interpretation of reality which, as I have said, is not true. And, Your Honor, your description of Catalonia, the Catalans and what is happening there is not real, no matter how much you try to repeat it. Therefore, show a minimum of consideration towards Catalan society, solidarity, diversity and example of welcoming and integrating millions of compatriots throughout our history. Therefore, if you are really concerned about the situation and working conditions of our Security Forces and Corpses, ask for solutions, do not describe parallel realities to justify your absolute lack of proposals. Solutions such as those we are implementing from the Government. For example, public employment offers exceeding 115 %, allowing the recovery of more than 12,000 people lost with the People's Party between 2011 and 2018. For example, the constant improvement of its material resources and infrastructures with the most ambitious plan of our history - investment of 600 million in State security infrastructures, which have a vertebrating vocation of the territory - and measures in the face of the demographic challenge. For example, collective bargaining and the improvement of the working conditions - as I have said - of the State Security Forces and Bodies with the Pay Equalization Agreement. I conclude, President, and I do so by recalling the work of the Security Forces and Corpses in Catalonia and the rest of Spain, which is nothing other than securing our rights and freedoms. I do so by recalling that this work is exemplary, effective and in full collaboration with the Mossos d'Esquadra, and I do so, in the end, by reiterating that to improve this work the Government will continue to work on strengthening police capacities, improving working and remunerative conditions and strengthening infrastructure. That is our road map, a road map that we are convinced is shared by Spanish society and that we are going to carry on, that Spanish society that is sick of distraction and that only wants consensus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u227	Minister, you've got to get it over with.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u228	Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u229	Thank you. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the proposal made by the Government to eliminate THE EXTRAORDINARY BENEFIT FOR AUTONOMS WITH LOSS REVENUE BY THE ACTIVITY COMMITTEE. [[File number 172/000136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u230	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress into the Government's proposal to eliminate the extraordinary benefit for low-income self-employed persons for cessation of activity. For your defence, Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u231	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Before I began my speech, I wanted to send a message of encouragement and hope to the inhabitants of La Palma in the face of this dramatic situation that they are experiencing. [[Applauds]] Welcome, Mr. Escriva. First, he took the opportunity to remind him, Minister, that the last time he appeared on the Committee on Labour, Inclusion, Social Security and Migration was in January of this year and that he has more than twenty appearances requested and pending. And I also remind you that you manage very sensitive areas, that your decisions affect vulnerable people and that it is your duty to appear more frequently, at least to give the relevant explanations at parliamentary level. They say of you that he hides, that he is afraid to give explanations, that he does not appear because, when he gives explanations, another member of the government goes and corrects them. In fact, I wouldn't have been surprised today that instead of you, Vice President Yolanda Díaz would have come. And it is understandable your mood, because you came with the vitola of being a rigorous and prestigious analyst, and you have become the great disappointment, with little weight in this government. In the People's Party we welcome the fact that it finally reached an agreement with the autonomous last Monday. But there is no mistake, this agreement is only the result of pressure from the self-employed groups and the People's Party, which has been insisting on extending the protection of self-employed workers for a long time. He's listened to us again and he's got it right again. Look, minister, I am the son of self-governing, grandson of self-governing and father of a daughter who is self-governing. Therefore, I know first-hand the reality a self-employed person faces from getting up every morning until he goes to bed every night. And I think that's what's missing from you. I think you do not know the reality of self-employed workers and, if you know it, you are not able to get into their shoes; otherwise, you do not explain the number of wrong decisions you and Mr Sánchez's Government have made and have harmed a group that has proved to be key in our economy, because self-employed people and SMEs account for 99% of the productive fabric and 73% of the employment in our country. Talking about self-employed people is talking about a collective that generates wealth and employment in Spain; they create more than four million jobs directly or indirectly, so they cannot be left at the stand. Supporting the self-governing is supporting job creation and strengthening the welfare state, we know this well in the People's Party and that is why we are the party that best and most defends the self-governing. You know that the autonomous collective is one of the most affected collectives by the economic effects of the pandemic and is the great forgotten of your Government. The restrictions we have experienced with the state of alarm, curfews, confinements, perimeter closures, closures of activities, etc., combined with the scant measures taken by the Government for the benefit of self-employed workers, have made the economic consequences of the pandemic dramatic for them. In addition, many entrepreneurs have hired people to pay the payroll and continue to have financial obligations such as paying rents, mortgages, supplies, contributions and insurance, among others. This is the dramatic reality that many autonomous people are living here today, in our country, and with which you, Minister Escriva, are insensitive. They bear a significant reduction in income - in many cases almost non-existent or zero income - and a multitude of expenses to face. So you have to listen to the self-employed, listen to what the self-employed say, feel their problems, because you strive to make deaf ears. The last barometer of the Association of Self-Employed Workers, published on 22 September last, shows that two out of three self-employed people claim to be still far from their recovery. In addition, 75,000 self-employed persons plan to close when their benefits are completed. One in four self-governings foresees that they will not be recovered until two years from now. Eight per cent of self-employed people are currently receiving a cessation of activity and 87 per cent would apply again if extended. Self-employed people suspend direct aid and rate it at 2.8 out of 10. Three out of four self-employed people say that it is not the time to raise the inter-professional minimum wage and 300 000 self-employed people plan to reduce the workforce next year, with the rise in taxes and the rise in light being the main situations that threaten the survival of the businesses of self-employed people and small entrepreneurs. Therefore, Minister, in view of this scenario, we do not understand the continuing attack of this Government on this collective. They have tried to give them a new blast with a disorbited and disproportionate new quote for real income, which they had to withdraw. With regard to direct aid, I would now like to explain what is happening with direct aid. The People's Party has been asking for direct aid for more than a year now, and when they finally approve it, they do so with such a raging system to collect it that they have not been able to access it, and if they cannot access it, what good are they for? It is no wonder that the self-employed put this sounding suspension on direct aid. They should be aware that self-employed people need access to such aid in order to continue their business, need real and effective aid, and yet this Government, instead of providing them with access, is dedicated to putting sticks on the wheels. See, minister, in March, in the Labour Committee, a non-law proposal was adopted by the People's Party to urge the Government to eliminate the social quotas of self-employed workers who have no income; zero income, zero income. Please explain to us today, that you may, why you have not implemented this measure. However, they have taken other measures that directly harm them, such as wanting to make them pay for travelling on the roads or to raise the cost of diesel or not to allow them to reduce the costs of teleworking; moreover, they have been tried with hairdressers' professionals, most of whom are self-employed women, denying VAT reductions, a measure adopted in the Senate by all political groups, with the exception of the Socialist Party, and which the Government has vetoed. What is your opinion on this? Explain it today too. It eliminates the possibility of jointly taxing in the IRPF and now, in the end, because of the inaction and indolence of this government, the light rises by more than 200 %, multiplying its costs on the invoice. By the way, today the historical record of the price of light is being beaten, as has already been said this morning, today the price of energy reaches 200 euros in the wholesale market, and this government remains indolent and Sánchez without resigning. This is just a sample, minister, is the enumeration of several increases in spending that the self-sustaining ones caused by their decisions and other members of the government have to bear. But, I see, that not content with creating them economic difficulties, they also eat with them creating insecurity and anguish. It is not acceptable that the deadline for the extension of the extraordinary termination benefit expires on 30 September and that three days earlier it was not yet known what would happen to it. The Government is committed to extending the termination benefits for self-employed workers by speeding up the deadlines and at the last minute and with the shame of selling as a triumph every further extension. This strategy is contrary to recovery, as it prevents decision-making. I am no longer talking about the long term, but it does not even allow decisions to be taken in the medium term, and I would dare to say that in the short term, because with these ineffective policies many autonomous people do not know what is going to happen to them the next day. This strategy of the Government is selfish and irresponsible and creates more disquiet in those self-employed and entrepreneurs who are on the looserope of work. We need a government that is up to it, that fulfils, with a public service vocation, that looks after the citizens and that is responsible for their decisions. That is why we ask you today to explain to us why you are working with our self-employed, what you have against self-employed workers, why you are working to penalise your efforts. And, by the way, explain here, in Parliament, whether the workers are going to retire at seventy-five years and whether they support the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. And remember, Mr Escrivá, that it is the People's Party that challenges the minister. I hope that you will assume your role as minister and not become a spokesman for the Socialist Party, even if you run the risk of being forced to rectify it tomorrow. When I'm a minister you can ask me, but today it's my turn to ask you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u232	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will articulate my reply to your question on the basis of the central elements of your presentation. The first is that the People's Party is the one that best defends the autonomous. Let's look at this sentence and see if it has any credibility. Phrases we can all say, but a phrase like this requires us to contrast with a minimal reality. How can we contrast that phrase? For with the period in which you ruled or in the autonomous communities in which you ruled. When you ruled, between December 2012 and March 2013, 150,000 self-employed jobs were destroyed in Spain, roughly 10,000 each year, up to 150,000. I remind you that in this crisis not a single job of self-employed people has been destroyed; we have more self-employed members of Social Security at this time than before the pandemic. So I ask you: what did you do in December, January, February, March, April, May, and so on, when the employment of the self-employed was being destroyed? You can quote a single measure of support for self-employed people during the years 2012 and 2013, a single measure; a single measure. 150,000 jobs lost in the accumulated crisis; 150,000 jobs lost. And what credibility do you have what you said there? None. Let's use a second measuring rod. When the pandemic broke out in March and April and massive activity was halted throughout the economy, what happened? Ah, he's here! [[The Lord]] [[Laughter]] I was looking around and I didn't see him. It's better this way. Let's focus. Phenomenal. I'm with my second measuring rod. What did the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party do when we faced the pandemic, each from the responsibility of our administrations and we deploy the income protection scheme of the autonomous that has been in place so far? Well, look, remember what they said they were going to do in the Madrid Community with the self-employed in March and April 2020 or in the Andalusian community and look at what it was about. Bubbles, propaganda, nothing. Nothing. [[Applauds]] Therefore, that is the credibility that you have; that is the credibility that you have. Let us go to the second element of your intervention: aid is scarce. Let us look at the reality of the scarcity of these aids. First of all, I wonder, and if the aid is really scarce, how could we have agreed five times with all the self-employed associations on the aid scheme four months every four months and now again? If they are so small, why have all the associations of self-employed people - all three - always agreed with us and we have agreed on the measures jointly? Please explain to me how you reconcile reality with your statement about the shortage of aid. And what is that shortage of help? EUR 11 billion transferred to the self-employed during the pandemic from my ministry: EUR 11 billion, EUR 7.5 billion in direct benefits and EUR 3.5 billion in social security exemptions. And if that is so, I will read to you the phrase of a few days ago - yesterday, I think it was - of the association ATA: Satisfactory Agreement, it is an extension that can allow us to reach the end of the ERTE and the cessation of activity; the intention of the government was to reach an agreement and we are very grateful to you. UPTA: The agreement reached is satisfactory for those who are going through the worst, so that no one who needs it will be left without a benefit. I could also read UATAE's. What the hell is this? What are you talking about? What country does he live in? This is what the autonomous associations say, with which we have agreed each of the frameworks with which we are protecting them. And that is what has allowed today more self-employed members of Social Security and that none of them have had to go through unemployment as in the previous crisis, in which we have reached 500,000 self-employed less with a destruction of employment. 500 000, which is said soon. 500,000 self-employed, and now we have 50,000 self-employed more members of Social Security in February 2019. Sure, you can say whatever you want, but the reality is so overwhelming, so overwhelming... When you analyze the autonomous agreement and the design we have been doing in each of the benefits, you will see how at every moment we have been adjusting the benefit according to the needs of the autonomous. Or did we know how it was going to develop in the pandemic? What do you want, that in April 2020, without knowing how many waves there were going to be and how it was going to affect the activity, we already decided? Pardon me, having agreed with the self-employed every four months, with all the self-employed associations, with all of them, the framework by which we were going to head has allowed us to be flexible and adapt to the needs in each case. And if you analyze exactly the agreement we reached with them two or three days ago, you will see how much this adaptation has allowed you to focus on protection. On the one hand, all the self-employed who are still in service - all of them - but who are no longer really affected by the pandemic will have a transition, in terms of exemption from quotas, until February. What have we been doing since the first moment? To relieve them of their cost in terms of payment for their pension and social security benefits. All those who are in a previous situation - about two hundred and a thousand peaks - will have it in September. Secondly, those autonomous - there are few, but there are and will be - who still have restrictions on the activity resulting from administrative decisions, will continue to have the benefit as they had so far. And then, for those self-employed who have a situation of particular vulnerability, with low income or with a strong fall in income, we maintain the benefits until February. That is why the effort is so great, that is why all the associations of self-employed people agree and that is why we have agreed with them once, again and again, because our concern for self-employed people is not rhetorical, like yours, it is substantive, it is based on decisions, on public money, on good policy designs. I insist, everyone remember the hemeroteca, what did the Community of Madrid say it was going to do for the self-employed in March 2020? Where's that benefit? Where is the help of the Andalusian community? Where is he? We all have our responsibilities in our areas. In the area of care, in the area of support, the Autonomous Communities have taken decisions. How many for the autonomous in the communities governed by the People's Party? But it is such a gap between reality and what you tell here that I can only show my perplexity, really. I will end with an issue that seems even more incoherent and surprising to me, which is that of the contribution of the self-employed for real income. First, it is a recommendation of the Toledo Pact that you have voted in favour and now you are backing down, as it seems that tomorrow you are going to back off in all the agreements you have reached with us. Secondly, of course we have agreed with the social partners. I just don't know what you're talking about when you say... Excuse me, what matters is what you sign, what you sign and what you remember, the rest is bubble. We signed with all the social partners in July the framework in which the self-employed are going to contribute for real income, and in the signature-that was made in the Palace of Moncloa - not only were the representatives of the employer and the unions, were the representatives of the self-employed, was Mr Amor, with whom I gave my hand there at the signing of the agreement. It is that we have agreed and, in recalling it, we are simply making a recommendation in the Toledo Pact. But it seems to you that the search for consensus, the agreement with the social partners, the fact that these issues are non-partisan do not concern you at all. All they're worried about is coming here and being able to say four things based on unreality and then tweeting. Or what? Because, what's this about? Frankly, on the subject of real income, we agree with you, we agree with the social partners and we will develop it. Do you know why? Because two out of three self-employed people are going to contribute less to social security when they have a real income scheme, two out of three self-employed people. And, as has always happened with us, as has always happened since I came to the ministry, we will agree with the social actors, with all, because we believe in consensus, we believe in agreements, we believe in the autonomous, we believe above all in the autonomous. And you know something? My mother was self-governing, my son is self-governing, a low-income self-governing, and I know much more about self-governing than you can imagine. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u234	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u235	Minister, as you imagined, after having attended several appearances and speeches of yours, you did not answer almost anything of what had been raised. I believe that there are a number of issues that you have touched upon, but you still do not want to assume your responsibility. In your intervention, I think you confused autonomous communities with autonomous and autonomous communities and, in the end, the only autonomous government is you. [[Applauds]] He's the one who goes free, the one who doesn't team up with the rest. Mr. Escrivá, where are you located? What work does he do in the current Government? Pedro Saura, former socialist deputy who was a finance spokesman and today president of Paradores, said that the president of the AIReF was going to be the butler of Minister Montoro. Then that president turned out to be you, remember? At that time the People's Party defended him, he certainly remembers that too. I would never think of using that term to define your current situation in the Government, but think, be honest and say what your role is in this Government. Because one thing is clear: your criterion is not taken into account, one day you say one thing and the next day you are forced to say the opposite. Who's directing you? The criteria of Yolanda Díaz or Maria Jesús Montero weighs a lot more than theirs. Mr. Escriva, as I told you, you have become a great disappointment. It's a political evil, it has no weight in government, and now it's turned out to be a lousy manager, because everything you manage becomes a failure, and you know it. If we talk about the minimum living income, which was announced as the big star measure of the government, it has ended up starring. It has played with the hope of hundreds of thousands of citizens who have ended up disappointed, fruited and, worse, without receiving the benefit. About migration. The judge of the CIE de Canarias has denounced that immigrants had been overcrowded as cattle; this is very serious, and you remain impassive and indolent. On pensions, it presents trap reforms, by fascicles, agreed outside the Toledo Pact, which ignore the sustainability of the system and put the perception of European funds at risk. Another example that shows your insecurity in every decision you make. And of the self-employed, I've told you enough. If you haven't appreciated that you despised them, I think you're in a mistake. By the way, he quoted the People's Party on the issue of self-government, and not a single lesson, eh! We have put forward numerous initiatives to respond to the needs of this group, including amendments to the general budgets, GNP with aid of more than EUR 2400 million and a shock plan to overcome the pandemic, and in all cases they have been rejected by the government. The People's Party is the party that best and best defends the autonomous and will continue to be. You say you want agreements with the People's Party, but it doesn't comply, it's not reliable, it changes the rules of play every two by three, it's not reliable, they don't trust their own comrades. Inside Zeal, Mr. Escrivá. Supporting self-reliant people is supporting job creation and strengthening the welfare state. At the moment, it is their responsibility and the responsibility of the rest of the Government to promote and encourage this collective. They have to help them not only at the start of the activity, but to consolidate their business. I ended, Minister, by asking him again to explain - because he has not explained it - whether he supports the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party. It's very easy, say it with a yes or a no. It's easy. And tell us clearly whether, after the cultural change they propose, workers will have to retire at the age of 75. Say it also with a yes or with a no. It's very simple. Workers must be aware of the opinion of the Minister for Social Security in these matters and, in the area of pensions, it is not possible to deviate. Focus, because pensions are a very sensitive issue that affects all workers and need certainty, stability and confidence and, for a moment, stop worrying about what your vice president Yolanda Díaz is going to say. Be yourself, recover that personality that led you to be in your day president of the AIReF and that, unfortunately, now as minister you have lost. I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u236	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u237	President, Your Honor, this second speech of yours seems to me... Once you have lost by goal, when reality has crushed you, like the five agreements with the autonomous associations, all the data I have submitted - you do not present data, talk about the survey of I don't know who -, in this second intervention what you have done is what the teams do when they are losing by goal: muddy the field; muddy the field. [[laughter and applause]] [[Applauds]] Instead of talking about the self-employed, you've started talking about me and I don't know what. He has stopped talking about the self-employed because he can no longer talk about the self-employed because he no longer has any arguments. But, if you want, we talk about the policy of this ministry, of course I am willing to talk about the policy of the ministry, of course! We have not only reached five agreements with the self-employed. We have reached six agreements with all the social partners in the ERTE and we have been designing, not for the self-employed, but for all wage earners and all workers, a benefit that is model and recognised in Europe, which has allowed employment in Spain to recover above the levels of the pandemic. We have managed to make more jobs in Spain at this time than before the pandemic, despite the disruption that is affecting us. That's the reality. Minimum vital income, weakness? At the moment there are 900,000 vulnerable people receiving it. But, forgive me, if the European Commission has been telling the People's Party since 2014 and for seven years in a row that, please, they set up a minimum protection scheme in Spain, and never listened to them. Never. We arrived, we made the minimum living income, we've reached 900,000 people, and that's a failure? What will the 900,000 vulnerable think - of them, half children, more than half women - when they hear you talk about failure? Really, how dare you talk about failure in a protection scheme of this level? Migration. Canary Islands plan. What happened to the Canary Islands Plan? Where's the immigrant problem? That is to say, you look at the Ombudsman's report and how he praised the work of the Ministry of Inclusion in the Canary Islands. We have addressed the migration problem. Right now, are you talking about immigrants in the Canary Islands? Is that what you're talking Of course we have a very harsh reality, but are we talking about the social problems they are creating? Are we talking about the reception? Of course not!, and we have EASO with the best reports on how we managed the Canary Islands problem. Look at every single thing. Pensions? We'll talk tomorrow. Pensions? After eleven years we have reached agreement with all the social partners. [[Applauds]] You unilaterally made decisions by importing them zero consensus, importing them zero the future of pensioners. But how dare you speak of this Ministry of Inclusion, which has generated an agreement, after eleven years, with all the social actors and which also carried out, with all of you, the Toledo Pact? If we are making a framework for the future for all pensioners by eliminating uncertainty! But how dare you? We were talking about self-employed people and now we're talking about pensions, we're talking about migrants, we're talking about my past; that's embarrassing the playing field when it's getting lost by a score. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u239	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizen Parliamentary Group on the situation of mental health in Spain as a result of the COVI-19 pandemic. For the group responsible for the initiative, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u240	Thank you, President. Between last week, we are dealing with the interpellation that causes this motion, and today more than seventy people have committed suicide in Spain; seventy destroyed families, parents, brothers, children, who will not forget the day their loved one took his life; seventy families who will also have a double duel, which is that of the loss of the loved one and that of the misunderstanding of society and its social environment; seventy families who will not have a response from the State, a help or a guide from the public sector; seventy people who did not have a three-digit phone to call and who may have saved some of these lives; seventy people who were not figures, who were mothers, children, parents, friends, and who are seventy dramas in a week. In a week, seventy people have committed suicide, as I tell you, incarnating Spain's collective failure in terms of mental health. How many more weeks are we gonna let go before we do something? How many lives that, to a large extent, can be saved, will we lose, while we do nothing because of inertia, taboo, stigma or inculturation? In Citizens we are committed to talking about this. I would like to use this guide, this recommendation for the treatment of suicide by the media, to make an appeal to the media. [[Show a document]] This guide that the ministry did is very accurate. He made it on the proposal of Citizens; it was a proposal that we made to Salvador Illa and that he was pleased to send to the media. It is a guide that recommends talking about suicide, making suicide a newsable fact with certain formulas, with certain formats and not entering into certain issues. I ask the private media to keep it in mind; and the public media to keep it in mind. I told the president of Spanish Radio Television last week, please keep this issue of mental health in mind. He told us that he was picking up the glove and that they were going to explore formulas to deal with these matters. The need for a national mental health strategy is imperative. I have already told you that I do not know whether it is a law - as they proposed yesterday, and that we support it - or the existing legislation, but, of course, something needs to be done. We are facing a public health problem. I'm going to give you more data than I gave you last week, which supports this I'm telling you. More than 50% of Spaniards have been afraid of death or contagion during the pandemic; 41.9% have had problems with sleep; 51.9% have acknowledged feeling tired or with few energies; and 6.4% have attended a health care professional. But there are more relevant data. Those who go to these health services are mostly women; for each man, two women, although in the case of suicide the profile of the adult man clearly and overwhelmingly prevails. Why are more women attending mental health professionals? Why are more men killing themselves? Do we know? Do you think these are interesting questions? I think it's worth investing in means. Those who have suffered more changes in their lives, those who have seen more truncated their way of life and their social relations are young people between 18 and 34 years of age, which is the age band that has most visited these health services. As for the children, I give them another piece of information. Children's psychiatric emergencies have multiplied by two. The reasons why these parents have taken their children to psychiatric emergencies are: eating behavior disorders, anxiety, depression, self-injury, suicide attempts, and obsessive-compulsive disorders. They're kids. We're talking about children, I think we need to get on with this as soon as possible. In our urgent inquiry to the Minister of Health we remind her of the critical situation faced by many families. According to the World Health Organization, obsessive-compulsive disorder is one of the first twenty disabling diseases and one of the five most common mental health problems. Obsessive-compulsive disorder has no data; there is no data on this disorder in Spain; there is no reliable data on the incidence of obsessive-compulsive disorder in certain ages, in certain regions, in certain family circumstances, in certain economic circumstances. We don't know. Are you interested in this question? I think so, and everyone. I end with recent testimonies that I have been able to get to know and that I believe they show what is happening in Spanish homes. I did it last week and I'm doing it this time. I literally read, and I hope it will make you think: I am the mother of two four- and six-year-olds. I was always very concerned about order and cleanliness, but my life was not affected. From the pandemic, I see a constant threat in everything around me. My main fear is to spread my children, so my way of dealing with this fear is out of my hands. I have a room just to leave everything in the house, including the purchase, for several days before disinfecting with gloves. I don't even want anyone to come into my house. Every time I wash my hands and my children's. I don't know how many times I can do this every day. My husband disagrees and I'm afraid, very afraid. My world is cleaning up and thinking I haven't cleaned up. I cry when I see the redness of my hands or the red hands of my children wash them so much. I think everything would be better for my family if I wasn't. I finish, President, with this other testimony: I don't want to suffer anymore or see my son suffer. In the confinement everything was fine, but now my 14-year-old son can only go out on the street after doing certain rituals. This takes him hours. When we go to bed he knows we're not going to interrupt him and he starts putting everything in. She cries at night. This life is not human to any of us. Thank you very much. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u241	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Cañadell Salvia spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u242	Thank you, President. The damage the pandemic has left is also emotional. In the case of young people, the routines, dreams, projects and expectations of many of them have been significantly altered, and there is a sense of loss of opportunity that is generating and increasing cases of anxiety, not to mention the gender gap in mental health, which already existed before the pandemic and has now only increased. An ESADE study points out that between April and July 2020 the possibility of a woman feeling unhappy or depressed was between 5 and 10 percentage points higher than that of a man. For too long it has been difficult for us to talk about these issues, and I think it is time that we could break certain taboos. For example, with regard to suicide, the Generalitat de Catalunya estimates that suicide is the leading cause of non-natural death and the second leading cause of death in young people aged 15 to 29. For this reason, this month's beginnings presented the new Platform for the Prevention of Suicide 2021-2025 that enhances and improves the Suicide Risk Code, a pioneering and key instrument to prevent suicide, active since 2014. Administrations have a lot of work to do to give better public attention to the mental health and emotional well-being of our citizens and to achieve European standards. However, this work has to be done in coordination with the autonomous communities and with respect for autonomous competences. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete paragraph 7 from the proposal: the establishment of professional ratios from the ministry is a clear invasion of the powers delegated to the autonomous communities. In addition, we also believe that an additional budget line should be provided to the Autonomous Communities to ensure that they have sufficient resources to address this situation. We will not vote in favour of the motion because they present us with a compromise where they maintain points that invade the powers of the Generalitat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u243	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u244	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. A little over half a century ago, poet Sylvia Plath tried to commit suicide when she was twenty-one years old. He wrote in his diary: The world has become tortuous and bitter as a lemon from night to morning. She was admitted and subjected to electroshock sessions. When he recovered, he said that he had suffered such pain that he could never again go through something like this and that, if it happened to him, he would kill himself. He committed suicide when he was only thirty-one years old. It is true that electroshocks are no longer administered as they did in the past - they continue to be administered, which is surprising, but they continue to be administered - but it is also true that our health system does not give the response that people with psychic suffering need, not only because of the eternal and infernal waiting lists, but because, when finally people can access a treatment, it is often dispatched with medicines, which in some cases are useful and work, but in many other cases they are not enough and can even chronify and turn into disease what was a feeling or a temporary discomfort. I will speak, as the previous speaker has done, about the huge gender gap in our country, and I will do so, in particular, by focusing on the issue of psychiatric medicines. 85% of the psychiatric medicines prescribed in our country - I repeat, 85% - are for women. There is no biological reason for this; however, there are social and prejudiced reasons and these reasons are the profound gender inequality that exists in our society. And what's going on? That this excessive medicalization of women not only helps to make it more difficult to find the real problem that they have - sometimes a medical problem - but also causes sedation, psychiatrization, which helps them find resources to improve autonomy and deal with these problems that cause them discomfort. We will support this initiative. In fact, we thank the Citizens' Parliamentary Group for its concern about mental health issues. We have tabled amendments to finish adjusting and we have reached a compromise agreement, but, as we said yesterday and made clear in this plenary, we need a mental health law and, now that it is already taken into account, I hope that we will work on it, that we will work on it cordially and urgently and that we will improve it among all, a law with a gender perspective, a feminist law and a law that recognizes that mental health has biological components, but also - weighs more - historical, socio-economic, cultural and psychological components. Take, for example, what happened in the 2008 crisis, and it cannot be repeated again. The suicide mortality rate increased sharply in the countries most affected by the economic crisis, and the example of Greece is paradigmatic. It went from the lowest suicide rate in the European Union in 2007 to the highest in 2012, when the crisis had already ravaged. This law we present has specific articles that address mental health in childhood and adolescence. The citizen spokesman was reporting creepy cases. The pandemic has triggered psychic suffering in these age ranges. There are young people and children going through a real calvary and many families who are alone and helpless in the face of a public system that cannot respond because of the cuts and privatizations it has suffered in recent years. Finally, I would like to make it very clear that this mental health law must guarantee the rights of those diagnosed. We need to move forward in the processing of this law to eliminate all containment, including chemicals, and all forced revenue. There are many activists and professionals who have come up with viable alternatives that are practiced in other countries. I have been directly questioned these days and I want to make it clear that my position is that we must achieve the total elimination of these restraints and of forced income. In the end, all this cannot be done without public health. My group is proud of this mask that defends public health. [[Shows a mask]] I am surprised that groups that have participated in the cuts and privatizations are now so concerned about mental health. If so, bet on public health and add to our struggle because that will revert to a better mental health, a better society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u245	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Angulo Romero has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u246	Thank you, President. First, we send our affection to those who suffer from mental illness and their families, recognizing the work of the health and social professionals of mental health organizations and associations. This pandemic not only leaves us with the sad data of over a hundred thousand dead and millions of infected, but also the strong impact on people's mental health. 46% of Spaniards have shown psychological discomfort, with the impact on the child-child population being more pronounced, because it is the young people who have come to mental health services most. The ANAR 2020 report warns that self-injuries and suicidal ideas in children have grown by 250 %. With this data, it is urgent to face the challenges of mental health, not in isolation, but with an integral approach within the whole of health and social activity; challenges related to social stigmatization, prevention, multidisciplinary care and coordination, the lack of economic and human resources and, probably, the greatest challenge; suicide. That in Spain there is an average of ten suicides a day and that it is the second cause of death among our young people is something we cannot afford. These objectives were already included in the mental health strategy that the People's Party Government presented in 2016 and that could not be approved by the refusal of some socialist councillors for mere political interests. Now the impact of COVID would require that this be a priority issue on the Government's agenda, as agreed in the Reconstruction Commission, which called on the Government to urgently approve the new strategy and a national suicide prevention plan to implement the Suicide Risk Code in all health centres. However, after fifteen months, the Government, beyond mere promises, has not implemented anything. The minister announced now that the strategy is being celebrated, but we know that not all mental health professionals have been counted on. Moreover, it will be of no use if it lacks the financial resources and resources that mental health really needs. That is why, given the dimension of the issue - and this is our amendment - we believe that the time has come to make a qualitative leap with the urgent adoption of a global plan for mental health, integral, cross-cutting, multidisciplinary, personalised and in homogeneous conditions of accessibility, quality of care and safety throughout Spain, in which the national strategic plan for the prevention of suicide is approved, one of the greatest challenges of the system - as I said -, a plan made with the autonomous communities, health professionals, social, educational, scientific societies and patients, with time and economic memory, because it is the only way to guarantee everything we talk about; it targets the most vulnerable people - women and children - with structural, economic and, above all, human resources. Because yes, it is necessary to increase the number of psychiatrists, clinical psychologists and mental health nurses - also nursing - in addition to increasing the places of specialized health training. This is what patients and professionals ask of us; some professionals, by the way, are also being victims of this impact on their physical and mental health. Please, let's take care of those who take care of us. We must not expect the development of an isolated law that lacks a global vision. The Government already has the capacity to implement this plan. It is not acceptable that, after three years of government, the announcements of the new strategy and its financial endowment in the budgets should be only wet paper. And the People's Party does not tell you, you told yourself yesterday - the government to the government - with the bill that was discussed. That is why we feel that they do not accept this plan, which reflects the feeling of patients and professionals, but, nevertheless, we have reached an agreement and we will approve that transaction. We believe that this is not a matter for medals with isolated proposals or for good intentions. Let's work with professionals, patients, their families, end the stigma and make society aware that we can all suffer from a mental illness someday. The commitment of the People's Party is with the sick, and that is why we extend our hand, to move from words to deeds, but please, let us do so with rigour and comprehensive vision, not thinking of political revenues but of the well-being of people living with mental illness, to whom, again, I send the affection and support of the People's Party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u247	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Viondi has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u248	Good afternoon to everyone present in the Chamber right now. The first thing we wanted to move from the Socialist Group is our thanks to the various parliamentary groups who want to discuss this issue. Welcome be in the public debate the question of mental health, because behind mental health there are people, there is anxiety, there is depression, there are disorders, there are needs; welcome be this public debate and welcome be that we can put forward different opinions, different approaches in the seat of national sovereignty for a single purpose, give a solution to a real problem that the pandemic has increased and has consequences and effects, and on what all the parliamentary groups present today in this House, regardless of their thoughts, are aware that action must be taken. Moreover, we must act from sincerity, because if we are not sincere among ourselves, we will not be honest with the citizens. What have we done before this problem came and we put it in the media spotlight? How many Members of Parliament have confessed that they have gone to the psychologist or psychologist? How many of us have recognized that we have anxiety or depression? When have we shared those anxieties? We have tried for a long time to make it a taboo, and we ourselves have to look in the mirror and recognize that we have not done everything we had to do for a long time on this issue. We may have focused heavily on physical health, but we have long abandoned mental health. If the pandemic has brought very bad things to this country, let us hope that it will at least focus on this problem and start acting. And, by the way, always within the National Health System, because it is a public service, because it is equitable and because it guarantees universal access to all people, regardless of the income they have each end of the month. [[Applauds]] We are concerned about this parliamentary group, we are concerned about its consequences, the effects of the pandemic, but we are also sincere and certain, and you and we know that it is a complex issue, that a mental health strategy is not done with a snap of our fingers, we have not approved a mental health strategy for many years. It requires the opinion of scientific societies, of patient associations, especially of the medical school and also of the field of psychology. Moreover, we know - we have to say - that it is one more element of co-governance, because the final implementation of the mental health strategy is the responsibility of the autonomous communities, which also here, indistinctly of their political colour, must commit. The spokesman for the People's Group said that they presented a mental health strategy and accused us of having laid it down. Indeed, the feeling I have is that I do not want to turn this debate into a 'and you more', but I am going to ask one thing, that the health adviser of the Madrid Community in the Interterritorial Council does not do what he has done throughout the pandemic, veto, pose and put problems to all the initiatives that the Ministry of Health was doing against the pandemic; that they begin to coordinate and cooperate with the Government of Spain. [[applause]] And we're busy. Look, the Socialist Party was carrying it on its 2019 election program, it's in the government agreement we have with Unidad Podemos. There is a strategy that has been adopted and presented to all stakeholders and that has received more than seven hundred amendments. That is, it is a complex issue that requires much consensus; it has to be seen by the autonomous communities and given answers. I am not going to go into the cuts you made and in the eight years of Rajoy, where there was no measure in this regard. I want to think positive and I want to believe that the words of the People's Party today are sincere, I want to think, I want them to be sincere, and I want them to really put their hand in getting us to approve this mental health strategy. Finally, I would like to make a request to all the parliamentary groups, to my first: I ask that this is not a passing fashion, that it does not serve because some days we have viralized a tweet or got a few minutes of television, but that we keep it forever, that mental health really occupies the same space that physical health has in the field of health and public health, that it does not become a passing fashion, or that it is not a competition between parliamentary groups to see who is doing more PNL, who is asking more questions and who is taking more time in the House; that we really put all of us on our side and that this issue does not remain so, when tweets, television minutes and debates pass, in ostracism. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I assure you that this matter will never again be relegated to the public agenda. [[Applauds]] That is the commitment of the Socialists and it is the one we are going to carry out. And when socialists commit, we do so from agreement, dialogue and compromise. So welcome to the agreement and consensus. Let us hope that the strategy will work and give solutions to millions of people who are waiting for a response from public institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u249	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion is extraordinarily timely and necessary as a result of the call made by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Health on a subject, mental health, on which we must also acknowledge the tenacity of Mr Díaz Gómez, who, only because of his persistence in proposing initiatives of this nature over the years, deserves my recognition, and I am sure that it is something that many of the honourable Members, the Members and Members who are present in this Chamber share. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a parliamentary week where a lot has been said about mental health in the Congress of Deputies. Yesterday morning, in the context of the Committee on the Rights of Children and Adolescents, the worrying increase in the pathologies that severely affect our children and young people was noted and reiterated here by the spokesman of the People's Group. As all of you have been witnesses and participants, also yesterday afternoon, here in the Chamber, there was talk of mental health during the consideration of a general law which was endorsed in the vote at the end of the session. Now, as a result of the questioning of Minister Darias last week, we continue to talk about a subject that arouses a deep concern in Spanish society. The motion is very broad and well worked. In its nine points, the Government is urged to undertake a series of measures that are necessary and urgent, as is undoubtedly the case with the updating of the National Mental Health Strategy, which has for many years, too many years without in-depth review and which is key to addressing the epidemic of pathologies and mental disorders resulting from these disconcerting and desolating twenty months of coronavirus and its socio-economic derivatives, devastating to many people and families. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' initiative also proposes a national plan for the prevention of suicide, as stressed at the beginning of his speech by the proposing Member. It is shocking the daily statistics of men and women who take their lives, which, in addition to the death of a person, has an impact on the soul for their relatives, friends and companions. More measures are needed to prevent and respond to the suicidal behaviours that drag ten people every day to their goal of killing themselves; many others try unsuccessfully. We are, therefore, faced with a national tragedy that irrevocably calls on us to step up the fight against suicide, which implies that the State and the autonomous communities devote more resources, more specialized personnel to detecting and preventing such suicidal behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, the points of this motion which affect awareness raising, awareness raising and, ultimately, communication and education are particularly important to me so that mental health is not the subject of misleading or not so equivocal messages, when it is frivolated, for example, by the consumption of substances that damage the brain with irreversible neurological damage. In the name of the freedom of individuals there is no administrative tolerance in the invasion of playrooms in school environments, because ludopathy also ruins people and families. That there is a Minister of Consumer Affairs in this Government who believes that it is a mission accomplished in the face of ludopathy to limit the advertising of bets, is a contempt for the consequences of this important and growing pathology. Whether there are political parties that express themselves without hesitation in favour of the use of certain drugs or whether the Government avoids the dangers posed by addictions to certain video games or refuses to pursue the dissemination of undesirable content through mobile applications that Spanish boys and girls have at an earlier age is, in my view, an issue to be considered. In short, accepting this motion of the genuine brand of Don Guillermo Díaz Gómez would be a step forward in implementing more and better measures, more and better resources, more and better means. This, first, depends on the determined will of the Government, on its firm will to carry out a specific management on the whole of mental health, and secondly, it needs a good budget allocation, which means that we will be recording in the next public accounts, in the next few months, cash and money to be implemented already in 2022, that is, in three months' time and for the whole year, although I dare to predict that many figures of these multiannuals will be put out of the way with propaganda and pyrotechnics that camouflage the exasperating slowness of the Ministry of Health in a priority of extraordinary relevance, such as the mental health of the Spaniards. I have seen a compromise amendment circulating in which a few points are lost and even disappear, but if the proposing group accepts it, I too support this compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u251	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u252	Thank you, President. We are already finishing the day with this debate, which I think we can almost interpret as a second part of the debate we had yesterday on the proposal for a mental health law presented by the United Podemos Parliamentary Group. Yesterday it was already mentioned that, unfortunately, mental health has been the ugly girl in the health field, and since she is the ugly girl, fewer resources have been allocated for many reasons. That is why our parliamentary group really likes those slogans that have been used in many campaigns of 'Mental health is also health' and, above all, 'There is no health if there is no mental health'. That is why we consider it absolutely necessary to insist on the need to provide it with different resources, both material and human, and in a planned and long-term way. It is true that the pandemic, as we said yesterday, has further aggravated the situation in the most vulnerable groups and, in relation to the specific debate on the child youth area that we are developing today, the situation in that group. You were talking specifically before, Mr Diaz, about the strategy against suicide. He knew that the World Health Organization had already said several years ago that the strategy against suicide should be incorporated and prioritized as one of the fundamentals in the field of public health. This is what Euskadi did, which has already adopted its own suicide prevention strategy several years ago. I think that's got to be the way. Many resources have been provided in a planned way, with a mental health strategy, which had been defined since 2016, to address this issue: day centers, hospital places, psychologists to address the problem in the juvenile infant group, psychiatry... All this will be reinforced these days in Euskadi, where more day centres will be inaugurated to respond to these needs with resources and staff, which is really what needs to be done. You make a good approach in some of the proposals you make, but you and we both know that we always have a problem that is far from us, which is the state approach. You defend a proposal for a centralist state and we just the opposite: we stand on the wall every time proposals are put to us that may be focused on that. We will see what proposals are in particular reflected in the compromise amendment that is circulating - we have just passed it - to see if there is anything that really is an interference, to see if there are any aspects that were clear interferences in order to condition our vote. I would also like to say that for us to address this issue, in addition to those resources, we must work collaboratively between different areas. This goes beyond and beyond the strictly welfare sphere. There are many cases that are chronicled and passed on to the social sphere, and for us the educational sphere is decisive. We believe that a cross-cutting approach needs to be taken, in which the health, social and educational sectors work together. And in all this, moreover, we have to go by the hands of the scientific societies and the collectives and associations of the people concerned. I would like to give you an example of Euskadi, of our area of competence, because we understand that this area is our area of competence. These are projects that are being implemented to promote better mental health. I would like to highlight the Upright programme, which is being launched - it is pilot - in five states: in Iceland, Denmark, in Euskadi - which is not yet a state - in Italy and Poland. The aim is to equip adolescents and young people with tools to make them more resilient and able to respond successfully to the problems they are facing. Another socio-emotional curriculum development programme has been launched in Vizcaya. These lines of intervention are also decisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u253	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u254	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, ninety-nine days this government had us locked up, ninety-nine days this government had us all Spanish kidnapped. The consequences for mental health have already been perfectly explained by the proposing parliamentary group of this motion as a result of urgent questioning, Citizens, and it has given all the percentages and all the data on mental health ravages that have involved not only the pandemic, but - most seriously - the management that this Government has made of it. Look, once again we have had to listen in this Chamber, on the occasion of the proposed law of Podemos of the general law of mental health, to the representatives of Bildu in a false exhibition in defense of the mental health of the Spaniards. But what lessons will we learn from an inherited party of assassins who had closed 532 days to prison officer José Antonio Ortega Lara? [[Applauds]] What's more, let's make history. Let's tell the story, the real story, the one the hemerotecas tell: 86 kidnappings materialized the terrorist band ETA. You're talking about mental health. How dare you take the word and go up to this rostrum to preach about mental health as a result of a confinement; you, who come from threat, extortion, blackmail, kidnapping and murder? And we return to the progressive paradoxes of this illegitimate government that feeds that snake of sharp ETA knives through its heirs. He has us all kidnapped, as I said, ninety-nine days; he declared states of alarm to manipulate the Spaniards; he left us desolate in the face of the unprotection of our elders, who did not have the possibility to be transferred and admitted to ICU or to have a respirator. Tell me: How much harm lies in the heart of a child who sees how the life of his parents is not worth nor glory for this government? [[Applauds]] And, meanwhile, the queues of hunger became endless. Tell me: How much psychological damage does it fit in a supermarket bag, with a bread bar and a baby milk jar? How much damage can be done to the empty hands of parents who do not have to feed their children because, from one day to the next, their business sinks as a result of restrictions? Our Sons changed their way of learning and relating from one day to the next. Tell me: How much psychological damage does the innocence of a child who knows no virus and much less of a child who takes his or her parents' entire working life ahead of him or her? Tell me: How much psychological damage is in the consciousness of a child who can leave home only an hour, after forty days without treading the sidewalks or swinging in a swing? In short, this motion shows with data and percentages the alarm about the current mental health of the Spaniards, but, eye, of all: men, women, children, adolescents... There's no gender here, no, ladies and gentlemen. Its social construction based on gender falls by the weight of reality, and Citizens did not discriminate in their motion, but has succumbed, succumbed to the amendments of the PSOE and Podemos and has made their proposal an arm more of the tentacles of the Government of Gender Enideology. [[Applauds]] As I said, today the health deficiencies of a government with many positions and very little planning are highlighted, beyond continuing to drive ideology, indoctrination, biased history and the so-called effect of illegal immigration, because, unfortunately, that is the game of the constant distraction of this government to cover up reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, many of the times we have denounced them in their goal of expanding their tentacles, using an illegal kidnapping of the Spaniards, making the remedy the worst of the diseases. The damage is already done, what they should do is strive to minimize. Thank you very much and all my love that will always be the pretty island. Cheer up, La Palma! Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u255	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u256	Yes, President, the transaction we have circulated is the final one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-09-29-CD210929.u257	Okay. Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
