ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, in the five months since 2021, fourteen women and six minors have been killed in Spain in cases of gender-based violence, five women and one seven-year-old child in the last seven days. I ask you to join us in a minute of silence in expression of the pain and feeling with which all citizens accompany their relatives and loved ones and in manifestation of the deepest rejection of the macho violence and of the agreement we share in the fight against it. [[The House, standing up, keeps a minute of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the amendment of Law 15/2012 of 27 December on Tax Measures for Energy Sustainability and Law 24/2013 of 26 December on the Electrical Sector, for the reduction of the electricity bill. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u3	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing here today a proposal for a law that has a clear purpose: to lower the bill of light that families, SMEs, industries and consumers have to pay for. We bring this bill because we are blushed by the statements of the fourth vice president who, when the bill of light has an unorthodox escalation, when the price of light is in historical peaks, she, with her usual reduction of important things to absurdity, says it is a question of eurillos. [[Rumors]] We bring this proposal of law because the energy policy of the fourth vice president is reduced to the future 'we will do', 'we will define measures', 'we will facilitate that', but in the end it does nothing. All he does is write on Twitter. On Twitter, energy policy and on BOE is where it writes the measures that in its sectarian mental framework sink the economy, increase the price of diesel..., [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u5	... they expel the canning industry from the coast or marginal to the rural world. [[Applauds]] We bring this bill because in politics of truth, in that of improving people's lives, in that of changing things, we have to be more peak and shovel and less Twitter. We have a very simple, easy to implement and manageable regulatory change, and if we vote against it, the left side of the government would be refusing to turn down the light by 12% to 29 million electricity consumers. Because this measure, this bill, has regulatory changes that affect all consumers. This bill contrasts with what is being done in the Government with regard to energy management. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has taken the fifth step in the confiscation and seizure process in the pockets of the Spanish. The voraciousness with which the Government plunders us has found in the light a new instrument with which to continue increasing taxes. But, in addition to confiscating our savings, the clumsiness of this Government causes its regulatory nihilism to cause increases in the price of all energy carriers, especially electricity. Today I want to explain to you what is going to happen in the near future with the price of light thanks to this government and to this minister. Next June 1 comes into force a new system of electric energy pricing that will bring light to working Spanish and families. The National Commission on Markets and Competition itself says that transport and distribution tolls are reduced, except for consumers with rates 2.0 and 2.1. That is, it is expensive for all consumers: for the 18 million consumers without hourly discrimination and for the 11 million consumers who have two or three hourly billing periods. In addition, they change the hourly billing periods by increasing the most expensive hours and reducing the cheapest ones, and on top of that they have the character of saying that there are hourly periods when the light falls and that consumers have to transfer their consumption to that hour. Gentlemen of the Government, you will not know this, but the Spanish and Spanish do not put the washing machine at two o'clock in the morning; at that time they are sleeping because they work at seven o'clock. [[Applauds]] The oven and the glass ceramics do not turn on at five o'clock in the morning and the self-contained one that has a cafeteria does not open at three o'clock in the morning. Gentlemen of the Government, you are so detached from reality that you do not know what Spain is like or, worse off, you know it and you think we are fools. [[Displays a graph]] Look, in this graph you can see the hours of higher electrical consumption. How smart are you who have said: let's put them at the highest rate where the Spaniards consume the most! I mean, pure and hard looting of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The new bill is going to affect 29 million consumers who, so that the light does not come up, you have just told them to make themselves overnight. But why are you doing this? Because in these three years of government they're going to be easy to keep in power. Firstly, because the objective has been set to keep public expenditure unorbited at the expense of the working Spanish, the families, the self-employed, the businesses, and they do so through the continuous and premeditated looting of their pockets. And secondly, because they have made a climate change law to electrify the economy and, once they have passed it, they bring light to all consumers. That's stealing from the Spaniards with a shameless opportunism. And what are you doing while Vice President Fourth? Chaos for the electrical system and inherit the worst decisions of shoemaking that was so devastating in the electrical system. I'm going to give you several examples. First, today we continue to pay the 30 billion euros of the socialist gift to the electricians through the tariff deficit that originated thanks to Zapatero for the abolition of the mechanism of price control, which important socialist leaders have recognized as a mistake and a gift that entailed a historical increase in light. [[Applauds]] Second, for the unjustified delay in the construction of the Villar de Cañas ATC. One million working hours of Enresa and 47,000 working hours of Nuclear Security Council technicians have been employed. They are blocking an investment of €1.3 billion, causing losses of €350 million and spending a cold of €72 000 per day on the transfer of nuclear waste to France. Third, because of the Minister's complicit connivance with electrical interests, which are causing volatility and speculation at the cost of CO2 emissions. April has closed with the price of electricity at 65 euros per megawatt, 62 % more than last year, 4 more than during the cold and snow storm of Filomena. This is because nothing is done to prevent the impact of the rise in the price of CO2, which is above EUR 50 per tonne. I warn you that we have tabled an amendment to Royal Decree-Law 34/2020 to prevent the cost of CO2, estimated at EUR 4825 million, from affecting consumers. Look at the difference: you are looking for a single beneficiary and 29 million injured and the People's Parliamentary Group is looking to protect consumers. In April alone, CO2 had an extra cost of 250 million euros on the electricity bill. What a shame the energy policy of the left and the extreme left, that of enriching electric interests at the cost of impoverishing families! What a shame! [[Applauds]] Fourth. Their ecological transition, theirs, has a cost in destruction of employment, in closure of economic activity, in expelling the canning industry from the Spanish coast, in harassing farmers and the rural world. But, in addition to a cost, it has an invention, which is the National Electricity Compensation Fund, which cannot be more unfair and inefficient: rising to diesel, mainly to farmers and to unpopulated Spain; rising heating prices, mainly in central and northern Spain; rising by 20% of natural gas, and a cost to the basic industry of EUR 2650 million in the coming years. What transition do you want to make, you're going to make him pay the self-consumption of the solar plate of a cottage that has a diesel vehicle in a village that has neither chalets nor plates? Fifth. The Minister's solutions for the Ecological Transition are not to protect industry or promote the value chain associated with renewable energy or lower taxes to facilitate the decarbonization of the economy; they are not. Its solutions are taxes on landfills, taxes on gas, taxes on the air sector, taxes on mobility, taxes on diesel, speculation on CO2 and speculation on hydraulic generation. That is the euphemism of green taxation, which is nothing but putting our hand in the pocket of the Spaniards. No plans for power generation support technologies, no new project for reversible hydraulic generation, threats to nuclear energy, no progress in electricity interconnections, wet paper in energy storage and electricity charging infrastructure for cities alone, leaving the rural world. If the Minister for the Ecological Transition were to manage only half of the time spent banning or enriching large lobbies, the Spaniards would do much better. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this, I would like to end with what the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing to the debate today, which is a proposal for a law to lower the bill of light with three simple claims. First, 7 % tax relief on electricity generation. We want to do this by law in order to generate an impact of between 1500 and 1600 million euros a year - which is 20 euros a year on the bill per consumer - and, moreover, not to generate competitive distortions in a market like ours, in which the electricity generation brands prices between Spain and Portugal, since Portugal's entry produces 7% cheaper. Secondly, that the extra costs of electricity generation of non-penisular systems are borne by the General Budgets of the State. Spanish are all and it doesn't matter where we live, in Madrid, Jaén, Ceuta, Melilla, Baleares or Canarias. The differential fact does not have to be in the receipt of light, but in the general budgets of the State, because the extra-penisular territories have to be the subject of a territorial policy, not an energy policy. And, third, that the bad energy policy of the governments of Zapatero and Pedro Sánchez cannot be financed with the receipt. After the governments of the People's Party left the electricity system with surplus, we have returned to millionaire and extraordinary deficits that must be passed on to the General Budgets of the State during the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 with an impact of 25 billion euros per year. All of these three measures entail an annual savings in the electricity bill of EUR 100 per year which should be accompanied, as it cannot otherwise be, by the reduction of unnecessary costs - many of which have its Government - and the limit to be entered into the electricity system resulting from the auction of CO2. If they have encouraged speculation and looting in the pockets of the Spaniards rising from the light, it seems logical that the over revenues that have been taken for the price of CO2 revert to the consumer. Today the parties that support the Government, the left and the extreme left have to decide whether they want to turn the Spanish down immediately and stop the devastating effect of the change in the rate that comes into force on 1 June or, on the contrary, whether they want to get in the way of their collection efforts. The People's Parliamentary Group, with responsibility and wisdom, has presented in recent months a battery of measures that result in the stability of the electrical system and that lower the price of light. We have presented a sustainable ecological and energy transition model, generating wealth and employment, intelligent, digital and aligned with Europe: our proposal on the Statute for Electrointensive Consumers, the boost to the value chain of the electric mobility industry in Spain, our national multi-fuel charging infrastructure plan, the national renewable energy drive plan, amendments to the Climate Change Act, support for disruptive technologies, green hydrogen drive and a long time and so on. We once again demonstrate that another economic model and another way of decarbonizing the economy is possible. We demonstrate our commitment to the energy transition, our commitment to the fight against climate change and, unlike the socialist government and the extreme left, we do so by generating employment and wealth, defending our industry and giving stability to our country. Today we insist again: with the fall in the price of light you are going in the wrong direction, it is being paid by consumers and electric users. We propose responsibility for sectarianism, more support for more taxes, more freedom for more prohibition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u6	Thank you, Mr. Requena. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, first of all Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. It is inexcusable to take into account this proposal for a law that promotes pressing measures to correct one of the most harmful political evils perpetrated by the Government of Pedro Sánchez and which has its reflection on the abusive bill that we pay all families, the self-employed, small, medium-sized and large enterprises and industry. No consumer, none, is free in Spain from the frenzy of collection begun three years ago with the arrival in Moncloa of the Minister for Energy Transition, Mrs Ribera, who has put us at the head of the European countries with the highest electricity receipt, which affects the whole economy and drags us into unemployment and impoverishment. It shows that last April the electric bill reached record figures, with an annual increase of 40%, and the auguries for the coming months, as the spokesman for the People's Parliamentary Group pointed out, are even worse. Very few pay in Europe a receipt of light more expensive than the Spanish. As of June, no European will pay more than a Spaniard in his electric receipt. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen, you warned once again about the lethal consequences of energy prices on the industrial sector, which is a vital economic key for Spain as a whole, but especially for Asturias, where concern is greatest at the risk of continuing the destruction of jobs. Although today we will attend another exhibition of deceptions, and what the left there describes as an energy scam, here in Madrid, it turns into complicity to unravel asturians and Spaniards. In short, we are faced with an urgent need to put an end to the government's tax raid on the electricity bill. That is why I voted in favour of this bill by the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Martínez Oblanca. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the same Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u9	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Last March we had the opportunity to discuss the issue of electricity bill on the occasion of a Citizens' motion, although it concerned in particular the tourism and agricultural sectors. At that time, we have already drawn attention to the desirability of reducing the price of electricity both in households and in industry, particularly in the field of the electro-intensive industry. For this reason we also put forward a non-law proposal almost a year ago, in June 2020. In Cantabria last April all the main political, economic and social actors, such as the parliamentary groups of the Parliament of Cantabria, the trade unions Workers and UGT Commissions, the CEOE CEPYME of Cantabria, the Federation of Municipalities of Cantabria, the Chambers of Commerce of Cantabria and Torrelavega, the professional colleges of industrial engineers and industrial technical engineers and the University of Cantabria, all coordinated by the Regional Government, have joined in the so-called partnership for the Cantabria industry in support of the electro-intensive industry. Well, the current situation, following the latest regulatory changes and those announced today, is in no way satisfactory. However, this proposal for a law of the People's Parliamentary Group conditions everything to the respective budget laws and also seeks some confusing compensation despite its attractive title. In addition, it should include a commitment by the proponent to do everything possible to support the Budget Act and not to use it as a bold weapon to overthrow the Government, because in reality amending taxes by reducing income and charging more expenditure to the budget is the same as the Budget Act. When the debate is held, we could speak with rigour about all this, unless the PP has already decided not to support the 2022 budgets, whoever they are. That is why we are being asked many questions about their intentionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thanks to the services. For the same Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u11	Thank you, President. We are very happy to be able to talk about one of the things that most concern citizens, which is the price of light. Last winter's photograph was frightening: Endesa, with more than €1.3 billion in profits in a year as the bill went up and up and the light cuts repeated. The citizens of Figueres or Font de la Pólvora will know what I'm talking about. And it is that the indecency of the profits of the big companies is at the cost of the poverty of the families and also at the cost of the privatization of water, rivers, swamps and ravines. That is also what we wanted to talk about today, about the fraudulent concessions of the plants that only in Vall Fosca make companies accumulate more than 160 million euros of profit, we repeat, fraudulently. And it's that to control the prices of light you have to go to the bottom of the matter, and the bottom of the matter is: whose energy is it? From our perspective, energy must be public - both those who do it and those who distribute it - and, therefore, must meet criteria of public interest. It must answer criteria of public interest because the question we ask ourselves before is much simpler, and we are sure that your lordships will agree with us: would it be logical for the water, the sky or the sun to be someone's? No, no, The water, the sky and the sun are common goods and are of all. Therefore, energy is also of all. For public energy and because public energy companies are proliferating. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u13	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Let me begin by breaking what seems like a sacred tradition in this atrium, which is to proceed to replicate monologue after monologue before each intervention - and regardless of what one is told-what was brought prepared. You, the representative of the People's Parliamentary Group, have asked us a question to the groups that we in one way or another support the Government. The question was whether we wanted the price of the electric bill to be lowered, and I believe that before that we have to answer clearly. The answer is yes; yes for citizens, not for companies that have been profiting all this time. If we look at your initiative we see that our yes to lower the electricity bill has very little to do with the proposal that you have put forward, which again uses as a bastion, as a shock guard, consumers, citizens, to hide in the background the true intention and dimension of your proposal, which is nothing more than to continue to put more tupid carpets on the big electrics of this country, which were previously public, so that they continue to get rich. Yeah, it's as simple as that, and I get it. When one sees that on the benches of this House - and I don't care which side to look at - those who now occupy the boards of big companies that were previously public and now are privatized have sat down, one understands very well why the obsession of continuing to give all kinds of benefits to these companies. We believe that electricity should be a good for all and for all, regardless of its resources, and not so much a business object, an object of trade for the profit of a few, because what you think is to lower taxes again to large companies. It is not even a question of controlling prices by making them take on a greater burden in the eyes of the millionaires - or billionaires, it should be said - annual profits that have, no, but to lower their taxes so that among all of us we pay to cleavage so that the electricians and the ladies and gentlemen of their boards - before with political career - can remain millionaires at the expense of all. They propose to lower electricity taxes on production, for example, from 7% - which is not too much - to 0%, which is certainly payable to anyone, even to a worker who cannot pay the light, but also propose to limit the State's income from greenhouse emissions to a maximum of EUR 2 billion so that companies do not pay too much, lest the accounts are broken down. They also propose that compensation should continue to be given to the nuclear moratorium, going against the winds running through Europe and wanting to put an end to nuclear energy. But you raise more things. They talk about the electric deficit that has been generated for years by the bad actions of both governments. And here I don't distinguish between colors, you or you, I don't care whether I look there, but I can look here too.In any case, of the two, I make it clear to you, of all the governments that have been in the Spanish state since 1978, because I will not commit the clumsiness that some commit to speak of the worst governments in history by bypassing the black period of dictatorship. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] That is to say, from 1978 until now anyone who has been the Government has done nothing but favor electric interests. What they are proposing now is that we assume all the electricity deficit that has generated their bad practices and that we also do so through the General Budgets of the State. When in this House is someone who is not on the left going to bring a proposal to put forward, for example, that pensions can be sustained with the State's General Budgets? No one points it out, they've never brought it here. They always suggest that this requires Austrian backpacks or private pension funds, but they can never go to the State General Budgets, as in this case they are thought of as a philosophical stone or as a magic formula. In other words, they suggest that the electrics, earning more and more each year, continue without taking on any kind of charge, only amassing benefits. I think it is good to make a reminder of what has happened in the electricity sector of the Spanish State and I think it is also good that we should also look at the rates of profit that these companies currently have. Endesa - to quote one -, 1394 million net profit in 2020, eight times more than the previous year. Endesa, that company that was public and you - this time yes, you - privatized. [[looking at the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] Do you remember? Public company that privatized and is now in the hands of the Italian electric company ENEL, whose biggest shareholder is the Italian state itself. [[Rumors]] Yes, I'm in ENEL - I'm in ENEL - whose biggest shareholder is the Italian state. In other words, you prevent the Spanish state or the Spanish state governments from intervening in the public sphere and yet from Italy... [[Rumors]] Quiet, quiet. [[Rumors]] I'm listening to him perfectly. When I have the floor, speak.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u14	Silence, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u15	If what you have is verbal incontinence, ask for more speaking shifts, but let me finish. [[Applauds]] As I told you, ENEL is Endesa's top shareholder. ENEL is involved by the Italian Government and you here refuse to have the Spanish Government participate in any electricity, because you say it goes against European regulations. Clarify this fate to the citizens, because they will thank them, and thus will not see how the Italians enrich themselves with the cost of the Spanish citizens' bills. But we could talk about Iberdrola, with 3610 million profits; a company, in this Basque case - why deny it - which had public participation through the Basque savings banks, but which also from the Basque Government in this case were in charge of selling and leaving only in private hands; also because it was requested by the European Union and also in contravention of Enel's own case which I have set as an example. Between Endesa and Iberdrola control 70% of the energy market, a real billionaire oligopoly. But we could talk about Naturgy, with 1026 million profit in 2020, 383 million only from January to March 2021; another company - you will remember, and looked at everyone, so that no one offends - coming from public companies that were also privatized, because they will sound like: Enagas, Unión Fenosa, Naturgy, all privatized. And so we could continue with many others; for example, Red Electrica, with 621 million, another company that was also public and that is also today privatized. In the face of this, in the face of the model that you propose and with this reality, there are other alternatives. There is, for example, that we do not lower our taxes on electricity but that we raise them, that we raise it to the benefits I have pointed out now, not for punishment, but because if they have clearly benefited during the COVID or the pandemic crisis, it also seems reasonable that they contribute more. Or are they only patriots on October 12th? Or are they only patriots when they have to look like bracelets and are not so to help or bear the burden their citizens suffer and their consumers and customers at the same time? True, two euros a month as an electric fare drop seems a little embarrassing when we are seeing the benefits they amass. But we could say more, we could talk about the rotating doors that I mentioned at the beginning. We could point out why in the background you never dare to go against the big electric companies, because you know that it is the real professional way out for many of you, if not, there is nothing more to see all the boards of all these companies, previously public and now privatized, clinging to liberation, that word that you so much like, that has done nothing but missell what was of all, put it in the hands of a few, buy a few so that they will benefit the usual ones. That's a bad business and certainly with us they don't count for those things.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Many thanks to the services of the House. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u17	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. The People's Parliamentary Group in Congress presented in January 2021, at the parliamentary seat, a bill that involves amendments to two of the most important laws in the energy sector: the Electricity Sector Act and the Tax Measures for Energy Sustainability Act. It is true that the proposal is framed during the first weeks of 2021, in which the electricity system experienced a substantial increase in prices with historical peaks, with the consequent negative impact on the electricity bill of consumers. As a result of this fact, as part of the basis of its approaches, the proposal is based on the need to adopt measures to adapt regulatory design to the structural changes in energy markets and thereby contribute to reducing the electricity bill, thus ensuring the economic and financial sustainability of the electricity system, as well as security of supply. However - we have to say - today we have attended a speech - I am sorry to say - a bit demagogic about the rise of light, because today we are faced with a problem that already existed before, even when you were ruling, and that you did not want to face. They refused to transfer the extra-cost debt to the General Budgets of the State. You refused to lower the tax rate that you are trying to reduce today; of course, it was a tax that you had requested, that you had imposed. If they are so concerned about the price of light, why did they not in their day take these measures that we ask of some political groups. In the end, both when they have been in the government have done nothing or rather little; all they have done has been to throw their things at each other's heads, and this cannot be. Some pointed out the climatic conditions and prices of other natural resources and, on the other hand, the PSOE also said that the rise impoverishes the country and vice versa. We believe that this is not the formula. If we all seek the same purpose, which is to reduce the price of light, let us agree and work together on it. I don't think there's anything else. It is true that, as I said, it is an approach that is due to a political opportunity at a time and in a specific circumstance, but with a hue: that the substantial increase in market prices is punctual, that what is also to be seen, in our opinion, is the annual average of the market and it is also to be taken into account that the markets for futures in Spain are indicating a decreasing trend in market prices. It is a proposal for a law in which the measures proposed by you can be considered complementary in order to discharge electricity from the costs other than the supply of electricity and which can alleviate that bill, it is true. These are measures that this group has also advocated on numerous occasions, but we also believe that they should be accompanied, if necessary, by all the regulatory changes that it is proposing and that it has already proposed by the Government, such as access tariffs, the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, electricity market reform, tax reform in the recently approved Climate Change Act, CO2 compensation to industry. In general, it is true that we agree with those basic lines proposed in the document, but we differ in terms of the proposed compensations, and of course we miss a basic economic memory of the analysis of the impact of the proposal on access tariffs, as well as the amount that is estimated to be collected by allowances, which seem to differ considerably, and which must be sufficient not only to compensate for the reduction in the tax on electricity production proposed here, but also for that CO2 compensation which was approved by amendment to the Climate Change Act for actions to combat climate change, although it must not be forgotten that 90% of the auctions of allowances are already passed on to the electricity system. So, we differ in seeing how you're going to make up for all that, if you're going to get there. On the other hand, together with the proposed amendments, there is a lack of what I have said, a basic economic memory of the analyses of the impact of the proposal on access tariffs. Beyond, of course, an energy transition that incorporates structural market transformations into regulation and allows for continued safeguarding of economic efficiency in supply security, what we believe would be necessary is a genuine comprehensive environmental tax reform by eliminating tax collection, for which a time frame for its formulation and also a great political consensus is needed. For this reason, although I agree with the measures, but having certain doubts as to how and impact, and given that measures are already being taken to reduce the cost of light, having in addition a reform of the electricity market and a tax reform whose objective is precisely to reduce the price of electricity, that is, without eliminating, we must also say, those remorse of the past, eliminating from the bill the costs other than the supply of electricity - which you did not want to address - my parliamentary group is going to abstain. Really, if we all agree that we have to lower the price of light, let's do it, let's agree, let's start talking, let's not get our shit in the head because it's the best time. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u19	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today in plenary the consideration of a proposal for a law on the amendment of Law 15/2012 of 27 December 2012 on Fiscal Measures for Energy Sustainability, and Law 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the Electrical Sector, for the reduction of the electricity bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I have to tell you that the title of this bill is perfect. In Citizens we fully agree that we must work on what concerns our field to reduce the cost of the electric bill, of course; indeed, we have put forward initiatives to try to achieve it not only for the households but also for our companies, for our industry, which has at this cost one of the costs that prevent it from continuing to grow. But, honestly, this proposal of law, although it has some positive element, the best thing it has is the title; in fact, it seems to be a title thought by Ivan Redondo, who is used to making slogans and not thinking about useful politics and listening to citizens, so we are quite surprised. In 2012, the People's Party passed Law 15/2012, the main element of which was the tax on the value of electricity production, which they now want to leave without content, and propose in essence that the costs of the electricity system should be borne by the State's General Budgets. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u21	The truth is that this reasoning attracts attention. In the same preamble to the law, the People's Party then stated that it approved this tax in order to promote budgetary balance, and now they want to charge these costs to the General Budgets of the State? Does the People's Party no longer care about the budgetary balance it once defended? They say they want to reduce the cost of consumer bills. Again, in Citizens they will always have our hand to reduce the bill of our consumers, but how is the economic hole they create financed by introducing this item into the budgets? It's financed through taxes. Gentlemen of the PP, at least one of these two statements they make is false. On the one hand, they intend to raise taxes to the Spaniards to cover the hole in the State General Budgets and consumers end up worse than they started. Because of this all Spaniards have to be aware of, if you take that item to the General Budgets of the State, it means to raise another tax. And I tell you one thing, it means leaving it in the hands of this government, which rises one morning and says they raise taxes to those they call the richest, but I tell you that we finally pay them all, look at the elimination of joint taxation, with which, a little bit of fear it does give. And the other option is that they really don't want to raise taxes and then they don't care about budget balance at all. I don't know which one is worse, because the Spaniards don't deserve either of these two options. But a third option could appear, and it is that this item in the State General Budgets will be financed by reducing that inefficient expenditure that this Government has with twenty-two ministries and I do not know how many thousands of advisers, but, frankly, you and I will agree that that with this Government will be impossible. Apart from this question of principle, we have the problem of the legislative technique that some of the proposed changes have become meaningless after the adoption of the Climate Change Act, and less sense will have with the future law of the National Electrical System Sustainability Fund, but you already knew this; there we have the opportunity to amend and do a lot to reduce the bill. Perhaps the real motivation will be that they want to continue boycotting this sustainability fund and have wanted to use one more tool, which I also respect. There are other elements of the proposal that we find more interesting, such as island systems, given the particular challenges they face. [[The lady]] Because it is only a matter of consideration, we will vote yes, because we believe that, if it is taken into consideration, we will be able to include appropriate amendments and try to improve a future text. But we will only vote for this, because it can be arranged by amendment, not by the content they have brought here today. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said to you, we have to be serious, we have to live up to the circumstances, so in Citizens we will work to advance energy sustainability and something as important for the day-to-day life of the Spaniards and our industry as it is to reduce the electricity bill, but we will do so by seeking consensus, by seeking solutions, by not exercising parliamentary contortionism to extract electoral revenue from measures that we really need to seek to improve the lives of citizens. It is time to think of the general interest, ladies and gentlemen. As comrade Idoia Sagastizabal has rightly said, why don't we sit down and talk about what we can do, if we all agree that it is the country with the most expensive electricity? Why don't we help our industry, the families who need it most now? Let us sit down, let us talk in the relevant Commission, but not with this content, because it does not end up being serious. That is why we will now continue to work to reduce the bill. There are many bills coming in which we will be able to introduce amendments to reduce the bill, and in Citizens we will continue to work to achieve it. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u23	Thank you, Madam President. The new light tariffs which enter into force on 1 June undoubtedly benefit electricity companies, but they harm families, SMEs and the economy as a whole in the midst of a crisis, mainly small businesses, trades, hotels or livestock farms which cannot adjust their timetables. It is clear that the electric bill is determined today by the energy lobby and the rotating doors, which seem to work very well for both the PSOE and the People's Party, but they are against the social majority, increasing the bill of light at the worst time. And in the face of this, what is needed are not only small reforms - although the BNG defends them whenever they are positive - but a total transformation of the sector if we want electricity production to be in the public and social interest. Abolishing a tax on electricity companies does not seem to us the best way, because it is also obvious that there is no guarantee that the cost reduction will actually reach consumers. What is really needed is the nationalisation of the large electricity companies, which is what a truly left-wing government would do and, in the case of Galicia, a Galician electricity tariff that responds to our status as an excess energy producing country, a tariff that eliminates the costs that we really do not have, such as transport costs, and that does justice to our country by going down - since it has already paid and pays the social and environmental costs of producing without ever having the benefit of it - the price of light. We'll keep complaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u25	Thank you very much, President. It is said that the mystery of the Most Holy Trinity is an inaccessible mystery for human intelligence, but there are others, for example this: why does PP never make these proposals when it is ruling? Another: why do neither PP nor PSOE want a real audit of the cost of the electrical system? And another: why do we have to pay all kilowatts at the same price if some kilowatts cost to produce a price and others cost another price? Why do we give the electricians these fallen kilowatts from the sky? And that's what Spanish electrics are among the most profitable in Europe. Last year, the year of the pandemic, they shared benefits: benefits of Iberdrola, 3610 million; benefits of Endesa, 1394 million; and what does the PP do? Mind the benefits of electrics to revert to a down payment? No! No! To make electricity companies pay the real cost of what it costs to produce a kilowatt? No! No! The usual, the excuse, to lower a tax to then raise it via the General Budgets of the State, because, in the end, who ends up paying the General Budgets of the State? Everybody, everybody! In the end, the electrics stay the same and we all take care of them so that they don't lose a single cent. In short, the usual, cheap demagogy of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u26	Thank you, Mr. Baldoví. Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u27	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I came to this House, I already had the perception that hot regulation is not usually a good idea. Over the years, a few in the Senate and a few in Congress, he firmly found that hot regulation is a bad idea. Sometimes, in the short term and in terms of political profitability, someone can pull something out, but in the medium and long term, in political terms and in terms of economic efficiency, it is a bad business. And this proposal is an example of this. This is opportunistic and very hot legislation. You present this at the end of January after the first two or three weeks of January the price of energy goes off. Why? Because of very specific climatic and economic circumstances and because of legislation that had been in force for many years and had not worried them about changing it or changing it. We are therefore not going to support this initiative. We believe that a calm, calm debate with a medium- and long-term vision of energy prices, and not only for final consumers, not only for households, which is fundamental, but also for industry, must be addressed. At the moment the industry pays an asymmetrical energy price according to the territory in which the company is established, and we are not talking about large companies, we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. This will therefore have to be addressed. On the other hand, we do not think it is acceptable - and some other speaker or speaker has said this - because you are proposing amendments to this bill to amend the 2012 Energy Sustainability Tax Measures Act, adopted by the People's Party, and to lower the electricity tax from 7% to 2%. You will tell me: it is that the situation is different. It's true, you ruled and now you rule us. They are amending the Electricity Sector Act of 2013, which also promoted the People's Party, on the cost overruns of production in extrapenisular territories. The situation is very similar, practically the same. The difference is that some govern and others are in opposition. It would therefore be good if we were able to deal with this debate with a certain perspective, with a certain view of the state - I would recommend that you have this view of the state - and that you could give a non-opportunistic message, because the perception that remains at the moment in the citizenry is that the problem of electricity prices is a bold weapon from one to another, but there is no perception that the problem really wants to be solved. We are therefore not going to support this initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u29	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that the People's Party is launching this debate this week's plenary session; an issue which, while not inspiring great headlines or great media expectations, imports and affects, and very much affects, thousands and thousands of businesses, self-employed workers and, of course, thousands of consumers and all households. And so far - I'm sorry, Mr. Requena -, my compliments. Eight years after the adoption of the Electricity Act, it is clear that the rule must be changed and adapted to structural changes, to technological changes, to the assumption of the climate emergency and, as you say, it must contribute to reducing the electricity bill, which has often frightened us in recent months. However, Mr Requena, we fear that these changes will be effective if they come from the party of Mr Aznar, from the party that promoted the reform of the electricity sector, which undoubtedly favored the electric oligopoly; from the party that, together with the PSOE-yes, there will be for all -, has been the greatest user of the rotating doors that connect directly Moncloa with the boards of directors. In the next debate I promise to bring up to date the 'gauge gauge', if you can call it that. It is therefore surprising that the solution to put an end to the multiple grievances that we undoubtedly share that exist in the current model goes precisely through these reforms that you propose in your proposal for a law. Esquerra Republicana defends an energy model that drives 100 percent renewable energies, zero kilometre, and the democratization of the electricity market. We are clear that it is not only about replacing fossil energies with cleaner ones. The change, the real transition, is to transform a model based on large energy oligopolies into a model where citizenship plays a central role beyond consumption, where energy production and management play a major role. That's the distributed generation. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is not solved with the patches that come to propose us here today. I'm going in parts. First, reform of the electricity sector. As I have already said, we fully agree with a reform of the electricity sector, and proof of this is the insistence of Squerra Republicana to introduce this debate into one of the most important laws we have dealt with during this parliamentary term, the Climate Change Act. No, we have managed to get it approved in one year - let's expect it to comply; then I will talk about non-compliance - the Ministry and CNMC review the Electricity Act, and that is in the Climate Change Act, dealing with the following topics: consumer participation in energy markets, including demand response through independent aggregation; investment in renewable, variable and flexible energy generation, as well as the distributed generation of which I was talking about earlier; energy storage; harnessing electricity networks; using flexibility for their management and local energy markets; access of energy consumers to their data and energy innovation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you see that we are convinced that this reform must come soon. A reform that must be analysed in depth, with serenity and without haste. Good are all the contributions to enriching the debate, but no more patches. On your proposal to reduce the tax on electricity production to 0%, you know that we have only recently heard a ruling from Europe that supports this tax. Therefore, although we are aware of its obvious impact on price, we refer to what has been said in the previous point. What you propose here are patches, and in an oligopoly situation there is no guarantee that by lowering taxes these will affect consumers. Another interesting proposal that brings us here is that some of the regulated costs are financed by the State's General Budgets. Forgive me for the smile. As a general principle it may seem good to us, but with this we are not solving the focus of the problem, what we are doing is moving the problem to another place. And, in keeping with our pro-active spirit, Mr. Requena, don't you think it would be better to review the costs of the system? Or demand that remuneration be fair and not take place on investment in networks, especially transport, if we move towards a distributed generation model? And the mother of eggs, if we want to focus on lowering the energy price, we must increase the competition of the sector, avoiding at all costs concentration in a few business groups, decentralising energy and empowering the consumer. You speak of the impact of the price of CO2 as one of the causes of the increase in light. All right, but let us assume once and for all that these prices have arrived to stay, and therefore we must no longer look elsewhere; we must now face a real decarbonisation process. In short, the PSOE needs courage to face, once and for all, a profound reform, not of patches; to bravely face the much-needed tax reform, bearing in mind that it is telling us the science that we cannot continue to maintain the system of CO2 emissions levels and the economy and these costs must be internalised. And speaking of efficiency and competitiveness, for when, gentlemen of the PSOE, the regulation of closed networks?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u30	Mr. Capdevila, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u31	You don't know how I feel, because it was pretty interesting what I was going to say. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u32	We have no doubt, Mr. Capdevila, but I'm sorry. [[Applauds.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Requena, what did you eat today? He came with a verbal incontinence... Speaking of robbery, looting, confiscating savings. And you think, what are you talking about? And it turns out that when you read the bill, you're talking about a tax you created. After applying all these epithets, it turns out that you are talking about a tax that you created: the value tax on electricity production. Do we want to reduce the price of light? No doubt about it. But, look, you told us that, according to your proposal, the tariff reduction would be 11%. That says in the writing; today it has risen one more point, to 12%. I would like to talk about the government's proposal, the proposal to create an electricity system sustainability fund that will generate a 16% reduction in the electricity bill. And I'll explain how. In other words, it is the government that is actually working on a reduction in the bill for light, and it is not the state that is taking on that reduction of costs, which will benefit us collectively. Allow me first of all to stress that it is the contribution of renewable energies to the electricity system that enables the more effective and stable reduction of the bill. This Government has adopted more than fifty market reform, planning and strategy measures to accelerate the integration of renewables, storage, self-consumption and energy efficiency, with the aim of progressively reducing consumer bills and also reducing polluting emissions. This determined political action contrasts, by the way, with the policies implemented by the People's Party during the Rajoy government, which, on the contrary, put all possible obstacles to the development of renewable energies, generating the collapse of the sector in Spain and the loss of thousands of jobs. The People's Party's lack of interest in the decarbonization of the energy system and the fight against climate change comes from behind, as is well known to all, and has also been reflected in its abstention in the vote on the Climate Change Act. It is a pity that they do not leave behind their complexes and join resolutely those who fight climate change. In fiscal terms, the proposal put forward by the People's Group proposes to eliminate fees, but without giving any alternative to funding than the State General Budgets. It is impossible to build a country with quality public services based on the constant elimination of taxes. By the way, the value of energy production tax, as I have already said, you created it yourself. With regard to high electricity prices at the beginning of 2021, when the proposal for a law is presented, the proposal itself recognises that it is due to cyclical causes, but it should be remembered that during 2020 the average wholesale market price was almost 30% cheaper than in 2019, and the lowest in seventeen years. Certainly, our energy system has imbalances that must be corrected. It is said by its own committee of experts that, while 74% of the energy consumed comes from fossil sources - gas and oil - 26% is electric. [[shows a graph]] However, 87% of the payments for the system come from the electricity system and only 12% from the gas and oil industries. This situation makes the tax burden on electricity much higher, which results in an increase in the electricity tariff. This is essential to correct this imbalance with respect to the rest of Europe, where the costs between electricity and fossil fuels are much more distributed, as well as to promote progressive decarbonisation. This is why work is being done on the creation of the National Sustainability Fund, the objective of which is precisely to remove from the fixed costs paid in the light bill the costs associated with the specific remuneration scheme for renewables, cogeneration and waste. This expenditure - about 16% of the invoice, as I have told you - will be covered by the newly created fund, which will feed on the contributions of all energy operators, i.e. companies. The collection of taxes regulated by Law 15/2012 on revenues from CO2 auctions seeks to intensify the decarbonization process, which goes through electrification by releasing costs from the electric receipt and transferring them to other more polluting ones. This is intended to signal to operators who are making significant investments in energy transition, as envisaged by the PLEC. Obviously, União Podemos is in favour of a profound reform of the electricity sector. That's how we said it and we've been saying it. There are other matters that must be dealt with and which, unfortunately, are not in its proposal for a law, such as, for example, the fixing of prices in the wholesale electricity market. It is necessary to introduce regulatory changes in order to put an end to the overpayment, known as falling profits from the sky - and the name speaks for itself: falling profits from the ground - which receive electricity by the way in which the price is fixed for certain technologies which were installed in a different regulatory framework, prior to liberalisation, and which have recovered investment costs considerably, mainly nuclear and hydraulic. Unfortunately, this issue is not being addressed. There are other issues, which other previous rapporteurs have addressed, such as the need - which, of course, we in Unit We can share and defend - for an electricity company and, ultimately, for this profound reform of the electricity sector, but the steps being taken are in the direction of substantially reducing the electricity bill for consumers. In short, we find that the Government's proposal to address the cost of electricity is deeper, more effective and more comprehensive than the People's Group's proposal. In addition to addressing the cost of the electricity bill to the consumer, it does so so so that, at the same time as the bill is reduced, decarbonisation is promoted. That is why we shall vote against your proposal. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u34	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Manso Olivar has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u35	Good afternoon, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bel complains why we have to discuss this hot. The truth is that as we go to dictate you what things can be discussed or not, because I think more hotly that the law of euthanasia has been discussed here... [[Applauds]] I think it is true that the Members of the People's Party are a little opportunistic and take advantage of the sharp rise in light, 50% between this year and last year, or data such as that we pay 7.2% more for the price of light than the European average, but that is precisely why we have a very good opportunity here, I say not to discuss today, since we are accepting a bill, but to start thinking about many of the reflections that have been made today. To Mr Baldoví, who says: listen, you cover what you have to charge, I tell him that what you have to charge would be 12.60 cents per kilowatt hour, because the difference up to 22.98 cents per kilowatt hour is taxes; it is taxes, Mr Baldoví. 45% of the invoice is taxed. The members of the PP, indeed, are proposing to eliminate a tax which they themselves have created, and it seems to us very good, and they are trying to recover the loss of collection from the rise in greenhouse gas emissions, which has risen a lot - then we will talk about this, because that is already telling us something - and they are also proposing to move this fall in price in three months. We always tell them: you are a little shy. Listen, in a month, as soon as it is approved; if as soon as this is approved, it comes into force the next day. But, really, how did we get here? It all began with Mr Zapatero's Royal Decree 661/2007. Mr Zapatero made a pledge of 7 % return on renewables with the guarantee of the State. Public debt bonds paid 4.3%. It was wonderful; you had a public bonus that produced 50% more. But, of course, as the state is not God, in view of what many of you think, it was unable to keep its promises, and in 2012 subsidies were suspended and taxes had to be imposed. That's right. Then Mr. Rajoy tried to put a sun tax, which was abandoned in 2018, and had to reduce premiums to renewables by almost 40%. Until today, where the costs of renovation, cogeneration and waste transferred to the tariff reach 13%. Everything from the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, whether you like it or not, will end up being transferred to the bill. There is no producer who does not try to transfer it to the invoice, especially in consumptions such as electricity where elasticity is not high. But look, here's what's happened, both tossing things over your head, is that there's been a lack of technological neutrality on the part of all administrations. Here we like driving and economic planning. All that Mr Zapatero did after 2007 with the royal decree that I have quoted is to act as an entrepreneur, but not as an entrepreneur: he transferred the costs of investment to the consumer, the failure to the facilities, to which we then removed the premiums that we had promised them - which, by the way, one day will end at the London Arbitration Court the pile of claims that we have - and, moreover, if there had been any benefit, as I have not been an entrepreneur, I do not collect it either. I mean, perfect, perfect. But, look, the effects of this lack of technological neutrality are two, and one is in money. Why is electricity expensive in Spain? Because of this lack of technological neutrality of the administrations, which generates many inefficiencies. Inefficiencies can be seen, for example, in the prices of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Why are they so expensive, that now the People's Party wants to take advantage of the largest collection to finance it? Have you been asked? They are so expensive because the advancement of renewables does not go at the pace the central planner intended. They are not as efficient as they wanted, and, of course, entrepreneurs need to buy the rights to be able - forgive me the expression, because they might shoot me - to pollute, come on, in order to be able to produce under the current technological conditions. But this lack of technological neutrality has more costs. The lords of Bildu know it very well; the lords of Bildu know it very well. ETA killed six people, including a child - including a child - and left two wounded to stop it at Lemoniz nuclear power station, which is costing us a lot of money because, logically, it was necessary to compensate the entrepreneur who had been authorized. [[Applauds]] Mr Matute is not worried about the deaths, of course - the good people killed, we know it - he is concerned about profitability. Do you know that the most profitable is the Spanish Electric Network, not the private electrics? Do you know that some of the electric companies listed on IBEX have a negative return? We don't want power companies with negative profitability. Do you know why we don't want them? Because, then, we'll end up like Venezuela. Why do you think the electricity supply is missing in Venezuela? That is why electricity is not economically sustainable, i.e. it has no profitability. I would not like to miss the opportunity to talk about the NGUE funds. I would ask you - I have insisted on the commissions - please, that you have to be technologically neutral. By the way, there you are going to find a lot of what you complain about, what many people have complained about here, the revolving doors and the pressure groups for the capture of public rents. We definitely bet on the nuclear, okay? We believe that we must eliminate all these ecological taxes - because here they already know that every time someone has a dream puts a tax on us -, increase their useful life and recover the warehouse of Villacanas. We also believe that storage should be encouraged, because, gentlemen of the PP, it seems that they do not understand the market. The price at different hours is more expensive, and it must be so, whether you like it or not, because electricity is not stockable. That is why we are in favour of the storage and better use of agricultural water, which we remind the Members of the UPC, who voted against. To this end, we propose, among other things, a reflection on hydroelectric concessions. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Manso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u37	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party brings us a bill that claims to want to lower the electricity bill to Spanish consumers and, hey, that's very good, but it's just the title of the proposal, because what they bring here-equal is that they haven't calculated it - it could have the opposite effect. Look, almost everything they propose to change is contained in Law 15/2012 - they will remember it well - a law that when it passed through this Congress - let's remember - had to face six amendments to the whole, one for each of the groups in this House, except yours. But that's been corrected. Here they bring us the seventh amendment to the whole in the form of a bill. Look, then your parliamentary roll - what you call consensus - took care of what you wanted to do, as in the Senate, where things got even worse; you allowed yourself the luxury of raising the tax that you are proposing to eliminate today from 6 to 7 % and finally approved it only with your votes. Today they bring us this remix - which they already presented in September 2018-, so irrelevant that you yourself, Mr.Requena, have devoted two minutes in your intervention of the twelve that you had. He has had time, however, to tell us his stories with his usual moderation, speaking, for example, of the rise that will provoke the new bill of light. Well, look, I remind you that the CNMC has assured you that it will reduce the cost of electricity by 3.5% for more than 20 million households. Or, for example, when he talks about the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System, which says that the diesel will go up to farmers. They have not read it, but it is that agricultural diesel is exempt from the National Fund for the Sustainability of the Electrical System. I could go on, because you've been talking for ten minutes and I only have seven to deny them, but the truth is I do want to talk about your bill, not like you. Ladies and gentlemen, they presented it in September 2018 and bring it back to us in January 2021. What did September 2018 and January 2021 have in common? They have already told you, but I remind you: the press headlines. That's how you guys work, you're dedicated to doing headline politics. You have such a short-term vision that even for issues like these, which are really structural, you always bring us purely short-term measures, patches, tirites. The Planting they do is a real disaster, to the point that even the remedy can be worse than the disease. Ladies and gentlemen, they are proposing to eliminate a tax on electricity producers in the hope that it will be transferred to the consumer's bill, but what is clear is that this has a clear side effect, and that it will increase the deficit of the system by 1.5 million that will no longer be entered and you are proposing to balance it with the revenues of CO2 auctions rising to the top until 2000, but the revenues from auctions have never reached that amount, they have never gone over 1300 million. Moreover, they are already using more than 1 billion for the electrical system, I don't know where they want to get the rest. But I'm telling you more, and it's that the new Climate Change Act already sets the fate of those revenues, and we passed it last week. Haven't you even read it? [[Applauds]] If you want to use auction revenues for this, maybe you could tell us who you want to take them from, to just transition social measures? Do the electrotensives want to take them off, for example? Because that's not what you say in this proposal. If that deficit is not covered, what will certainly happen is that the electricity sector law - which is also yours - automatically increases the tolls, and then the bill will go up again. Ladies and gentlemen, they propose to transfer charges and costs from the electricity system and debt to the General State Budgets, some EUR 3300 million a year. They don't say where they're going to make it up to you either. Where do you want to get it, from education, from health? That's the first thing they cut off whenever they get the chance. Will it be from there? I'm sure that's what they have in their heads. The truth is that what is good for you, in what you are virtuous, is fiscal trilerism. They take a ball - in this case, the reduction of a tax to lower the electric bill, according to you -, put it in a glass, turn it around, put two others, tide it up and try to lose sight of reality, but what is true is that under those glasses there is nothing, because what you always bring are completely empty proposals. It is true that energy taxation needs a review - it is true - but it is necessary to do a serious job, a job on conscience, a job like the one the government is doing by setting up a committee of experts to evaluate the reform of our tax system by placing the emphasis on green taxation, not these bumps that you bring. If you really want to lower the electricity bill there is a way to do this, and almost everyone who has intervened before me has already told you: eliminate the regulated costs of the bill with the Fund for the sustainability of the electricity system. That will reduce the electricity bill by 16% and without jeopardising the sustainability of the electricity system, but we already know that you will not support it. They won't because that's how they work. The truth is, you didn't come here for that. You, when you are in the Government, are dedicated solely and exclusively to continuing in it. You, when you're in the opposition, have a single goal, to overthrow the government at any price, and we see it with every catastrophe, we see it with every crisis, we see it with every personal drama. We have seen it in the pandemic, we are seeing it in its performance with Morocco. For you all this is but a new opportunity to wear down the government. You are not the opposition, you are the opposite, you are against everything; so against everything, that in things like this you are, even against yourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I already know that you do not want to help - in fact, I think we all know that you do not want to help - but what we do ask is that you let us work for those who do want to do something to improve the lives of the people of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u39	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to incorporate a new Title XIV for the regulation of interest groups. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is bringing to your consideration in this plenary a proposal for a reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress which addresses the influence of the O'lobbies interest groups, as well as their relationship with the Members of Parliament, the parliamentary groups and the staff of the Congress. With this initiative the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to push forward the reformist agenda and to improve the democratic quality, which is a sign of the identity of the party I represent. If we succeed in bringing it forward, it will be the first time that this relationship between the interest groups and this House has been regulated, putting an end to an outstanding issue of Spanish parliamentarianism. This is not the first time that a parliamentary initiative with this vocation has come here. It is true, it is not a new debate. In fact, it has already been raised in the constitutional debates. In these more than 40 years of democracy, numerous proposals have been put forward by various parliamentary groups with the will to regulate relations with interest groups and to improve the transparency of the legislative process, proposals which for various reasons did not culminate happily. We are therefore faced with successive attempts to fill a gap: the lack of proper regulation of the relationship with interest groups. Our Parliament, unlike many of the countries in our environment or the European institutions themselves, has no regulation on these matters. In view of the regulatory autonomy that article 72 of the Spanish Constitution grants to this Parliament, we present this proposal for a law, in line with the GNP - also of my group - adopted last February in the Constitutional Commission. With this initiative we want to respond to several demands. The first, as I have already pointed out, is to cover the legal vacuum that has not been resolved so far in this House. The second is my party's own commitment; a commitment that is reflected in the government agreements we signed with Unidad Podemos. But it also responds to recommendations in the field of ethics and the fight against corruption, as the Council of Europe itself has been doing through the Greek. This body suggested to national parliaments that they implement various measures to promote the transparency of relations between their members and interest groups. Similarly, the claim of the associative fabric, linked to institutional representation, must be added. It is the interest groups themselves and their representatives who demand that their influence activity be regulated. But above all, this initiative responds to the conviction of this group that it is a necessary and urgent reform for the better functioning of democracy in our country. The commitment to democratic regeneration and the strengthening of citizens' confidence in the institutions, as well as their better understanding of the functioning of parliamentary activity, make it unavoidable to address the regulation of the activity of relation of interest groups with this House. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time there has been a growing interest on the part of different sectors of society in participating in public affairs, often through these interest groups. While these groups do not enjoy the tradition they may have in other societies, the fact is that they have long been relevant figures in the decision-making process. In societies as plural and complex as ours, where different ideas, values, concerns and proposals coexist, these groups play a fundamental role in articulating and channeling divergent criteria and interests. It would be virtually impossible for the public authorities to know these interests if they were not related to them. The reality is that all of us, all of the groups that make up this House, talk, discuss or exchange proposals with representatives or interest groups before submitting a bill; that is part of our work as legislators. This relationship of normality turns these de facto groups into required interlocutors in any legislative process. Listening to and appreciating the proposals that are going to be affected by our decisions is a normal and positive thing. Good governance means governing from the listening and participation of society. Therefore, this proposal is to recognize and regulate a phenomenon that has existed for years: the legitimate and necessary relationship between public authorities and interest groups. What we are seeking here is an attempt to update our legal system in order to adapt it to that reality. Our efforts should focus on ensuring that the process of citizen participation in decision-making and public policy-making is regulated and transparent; only in this way can we guarantee equal opportunities in access to this influence activity. The Constitution contains the right and duty of citizens to participate in political, economic, social and cultural life, and it is for the public authorities to facilitate such participation. This principle is not a monopoly on the administration, politicians or parties, it is a right of citizens, who can exercise individually or in an organized manner. That is why we are bringing this initiative here today, which is why we intend to increase the transparency and legal certainty of this relationship. This is certainly a much more ambitious proposal than all that has been brought here, including the one brought by the People's Group in the XII Legislature, in which it was practically limited to the creation of a parliamentary register. We are going further today, we are betting on measures that require more transparency and greater demand for all those in public office. Our proposal is divided into three articles and two final provisions. Article 1 incorporates a new title fourteenth in the Rules of Congress under the name of: From interest groups, where it is intended to provide greater order and clarity to the work of their representatives through the imposition of a series of obligations that will apply to their interaction with the members and public employees of the Congress of Deputies. A first part, capital in all the regulations that have been made in this respect, is the creation of a register of interest groups, registered in which must be registered those who have such consideration, those who act in their representation or those who wish to exercise the activity of influence in this house. This record, as it cannot be otherwise, will be publicly accessible. Similarly, the proposal also includes the regulation of a mandatory code of conduct for interest groups, which includes not only the principles of action, but also specific limitations aimed at ensuring that there is no conflict of interest. At this point we make a new and ambitious contribution, the code of conduct contains a provision whereby members of the General Courts will not be able to represent interest groups for a period of time since they leave office. This will ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the exercise of parliamentary activity and the subsequent activity in which the interests of a group will be represented. When there is contact with the interest group by Members, parliamentary groups or House staff, we also introduce the obligation to publicise the content of the interview via the Congress website. This obligation becomes more important when the work of influence is framed in the context of the legislative process. Thus, with each legislative initiative, a legislative footprint report will be drawn up by the services of the House, reflecting the changes that have taken place throughout the procedure. In this way, each meeting, each negotiation, each document will have to be recorded in full transparency. Access to these reports will be public, universal and free of charge, as citizens have the right to know who we meet with, when, for what purposes and how we conform our proposals. In short, citizens will be able to know who influences, when it influences, how it influences, with whom and why it influences the legislative and non-legislative process of the General Courts. That's transparency. Similarly, unlike previous proposals, where the code of conduct was not binding on the legislator or on the interest group or its representative, our proposal introduces a regime of infringements and sanctions for those who do not comply with the requirements of the relationship with the interest groups or any other related to the duties of the Regulation. This code may affect both interest groups and their representatives and citizens and parliamentary groups. Without this regime of infringements and sanctions, as is now the case, what is regulated here would remain a mere recommendation and we could not guarantee that it was a rule of effective compliance. The aim is to improve the capacity of the parliamentary institution to prevent and punish conduct that is contrary to the standards of ethics required to act in public life. This sanctions regime will mean, for example, that actions such as not disclosing data or falsifying in the declaration of goods and activities or economic interests do not go unpunished. We are the first to fulfil our duties; that is what we demand of citizens when we legislate, so we must be so demanding with our work and our behavior. Ladies and gentlemen, even if this reform is late, we must not miss the opportunity to resolve this outstanding debt and regulate for the first time the relationship between this House and the interest groups. It is an urgent and necessary reform aimed at improving the democratic quality and restoring the confidence of citizens in the mechanisms of participation and, therefore, in our political system. I would like to conclude my speech by addressing all the groups in this House. A reform of the Rules of Procedure must have the consensus of a large majority of Members. Aware that this proposal has a long way to go, the spirit of our group, as it cannot be otherwise, is to remain open and listen to and agree on the changes needed to improve the text. What we are putting before you today is an ambitious and demanding first step in the direction of transparency and improving the quality of our work as parliamentarians. I ask you to endorse this text as a starting point and we are able, on that basis, to work together to improve it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Navalpotro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. On behalf of that group, Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group is going to oppose the consideration of this proposal for a law because it is essentially counterproductive to the noble purposes - undoubtedly noble purposes - which it intends to incorporate; that is, to enhance the value of transparency in the institutional life of the House through a reform of the Rules of Procedure governing interest groups. In the same way as we say this, it must be made clear that this parliamentary group will always be in favour of any well-founded legal initiative that seeks to strengthen those values of transparency, that seeks to provide our legal system with better elements in this respect and that, beyond that value of transparency, it allows and is effective in preventing and combating corruption. Unfortunately, however, none of this is appreciated in the literal enunciation of the initiative before us. Let me make three preliminary considerations. The first has to do with the origin of the initiative. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, that this initiative, which raises the banner of transparency, has as its fatherhood the main parliamentary group which supports the Government, a government which today is essentially opaque. I could flood this rostrum with countless examples of this; let me simply point out four. This is the Government that in fact closed the transparency portal during the confinement so that there could be no public information on how and with whom it hired the health-care supplies. It is the Government that has systematically declared the travel, movement and stay of the President of the Government secret by using official transport elements and official residences when these activities of the President of the Government were manifestly private, such as going to a rock concert in Falcon, helicoptering a brother-in-law's wedding or taking friends to an official residence to spend the holidays. This Government has consistently refused to provide the specific data requested of it on the transfer by air to the Peninsula of irregular immigrants from the Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla; indeed, it will now have to do so because the Transparency Council has just estimated an individual's claim in this regard. And finally, and I will not make any greater impact out of obvious respect, this Government has still not offered a real and official figure of the number of victims of the pandemic. Therefore, coming here to raise from this rostrum the banner of transparency being the main group of support to the Government is even paradoxical. [[Applauds]] Second consideration. This proposed initiative lacks the necessary prior anchoring in our general legal system; there is no specific regulation in the Spanish legal system of an issue without doubt as important as the relationship of interest groups with the various public administrations, some isolated case in some autonomous community - indeed, modest and also failed - and a small essay, also modest, within the scope of the National Securities Market Commission. And having that previous anchor in the general legal order is essential, ladies and gentlemen, because from that general reference that we do not have is from where the concepts, the procedures and the principles should be drawn, then after putting them, within the peculiarities of the parliamentary institution, directly to this one: to Congress and to the Senate. This is acknowledged by the initiative's own explanatory statement: the lack of such a general legal framework. We believed that the proposing parliamentary group was in the right direction, it was in the right direction when on 23 February, within the Constitutional Commission, a non-legislative proposal was put forward and adopted that literally said: The Congress of Deputies urges the Government to address the regulation of lobbies in order to make their political impact transparent. That was to go in the right direction because that was to urge the Government to proceed with framework legislation, legislation of principles, that is, to lay the foundations on which to build the house in general and also what affects this house in that legal order. So, ladies and gentlemen, why suddenly, hurry and run, do you advance yourselves by the tangent? It doesn't make any sense. Third consideration. This initiative completely dispenses with contemplating the bicameral reality of Spanish parliamentarianism, that is, it intends to implement a reform of a substantial part of the Spanish parliamentary system, which is the Congress of Deputies, completely regardless of the existence of the Senate, so that it forces the Senate, or to do nothing, or to have to mimetically assume the reform, if any, which incorporates the Congress, or to have the Senate carry out another reform on its own with different contents or nuances. In short, a misadjustment. While there is a need for a general legal regime to frame such initiatives, there is also a need for a regime, a general framework in the parliamentary sphere, to place the initiative in its exact nature, and that is no more than that of the General Courts. Look, the real normative urgency, which has not been able to push any government or parliamentary group in the area of this issue, is to address definitively already - and we have been forty-three years late - the mandate contained in article 72.2 of the Constitution, where the Chambers are urged to draw up a regulation of the General Courts in which these issues are dealt with: the functioning of the joint sessions, the code of conduct and, without a doubt, also this issue that is before us today. And it is certainly inexplicable that at this point, forty-two years later, that issue remains pending. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, without a frame of reference in the general legal system and without the appropriate platform in the parliamentary legal system to address this issue, this issue is born and much more if we stick to the literal tenor of the rule proposed to us. It is absurd in its principles and definitions because it turns into an influence activity any communication activity that any person or entity in the associative sphere carries out with this House or with any of its members. This is literally stated in article 210, which considers all such activity to be an activity of influence. Nor can it define what is a lobbying group, what is a lobbying group, what is a lobbying group, what is a lobbying group, and article 209 considers, in terms of the literality of the proposed rule, interest groups to all Spanish individuals or legal entities, who pulsate for the daily reality of their activity, personal or corporate; all, absolutely all. I invite you to read the rule, to combine what is said in Article 210 of the rule that is proposed with what is said in Article 209 and you will see that we cut into absurdity. Man, this rule is also a bit cynical because, among the behaviors that require representatives of interest groups and interest groups themselves to be observed is - I quote literally - respect for the Constitution, and this, in short, is said by parliamentarians, parliamentary groups and even the same Government, which in many of its extremes is not characterized precisely by that respect for the Constitution. But, moreover, this rule is deeply discriminatory because, after having generalized as an influence activity any communication activity, after having made, I insist - Article 209 - all Spaniards and any expression of the association movement in a group of interest and after having subjected them to a confused profuse regime of procedure to establish their communication with this House creates an additional final provision in which it exempts political parties, entities that make up the territorial organization of the State, public organizations, public law corporations, diplomatic representatives and international organizations, the most representative trade unions, the CEOE and the Cepyme. Hey, is this a joke? That is, you preach transparency, you turn all activity into an alleged activity of influence, you make the whole Spanish physical or corporate sphere a group of interest, but then, at the time of truth, you take up and have the nerve to, in this same rule, exempt from the obligations that you portray for individuals or modest and small groups of interest, or associations of neighbors, or whatever it may be to large corporations, to large groups. This doesn't hold. [[Applauds]] Finally, this rule is deeply entrapment because it establishes, as is customary in the legislative technique of the Government, a regime of obligations, of general infringements of Members which has nothing to do with the question of reference, but in a much more general area. Moreover, no more or less than they establish as a court of honor to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputy, which is the height of the hills and roza the unconstitutionality. In Definitive, ladies and gentlemen, to speak seriously of transparency and democracy count on us. To wave them in this dilato of propaganda and legal insolvency, no. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Gil. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Guille. Mr Navalpotro Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u44	I must thank his lordship of VOX for at least recognizing the noble purposes envisaged by our initiative; from there, without truce. You wondered why we were in such a hurry in this reform. Look, you have already crushed the transparency policy of this house with your refusal to declare, as we have done the rest, the income data and other activities carried out in the five years preceding your inauguration in this House, as well as possible gifts and donations of foundations and associations to which you belong. [[applause]] Yes, they have been the only ones; they have been involved in the layer of patriotism in order not to give that data, which we have all given. And if you don't, our reform includes sanctions, because if you don't, you'll never do it. That's why you don't want to regulate anything. While we seek transparency, you want to hide your interests. Look, here we are talking about taking an initiative into consideration; some of the representatives of the other groups are going to make severe criticisms, justified or not, but they all contemplate the necessity and urgency of this reform. All but you. So let's sum it up in a battery of questions. Are you in favour of or against citizens knowing how we do the laws here? Are you in favour of or against our Parliament being no longer the exception between the countries in our environment and regulating relations with interest groups? Are you in favour of giving full transparency to Members' relations with interest groups? Yes or no? Are you in favour of regulating this relationship so that it occurs within ethical parameters of conduct? Yes or no? Are you in favour of ensuring equal opportunities for citizens in access to influence activities? Yes or no? Are you in favour of Parliamentarians and interest groups being subjected to a code of conduct in our relations and that if they fail to do so they will have some kind of consequence? Yes or no? Are you in favour of not lying or hiding data from our declarations of property and activities or economic interests? Yes or no? In short, are they in favour of greater transparency and accountability? Yes or no? This summarises everything. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Navalpotro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gil Lázaro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u46	Thank you very much, President. Mr Navalpotro, you are so predictable that I was prepared for this and I will endorse it to you, and now to the House, depending on the sovereign lie, the demagoguery that you have employed. [[shows a folder]] Otherwise, I do not bring prepared replicas, just a script for the replica out of respect for your lordship according to what you have just said. I'm starting to answer those questions that you're up to. Listen, yes to all; I said it in my speech, yes to all. We are absolutely in favour of any exercise of transparency by this House and by the Government; by the Executive; by the Legislature; by the Judiciary. All of them. [[Applauds]] What we are not willing to do is that you want to make propaganda and make us commulgate with mill wheels, that is, a monumental legal chapuza. Second consideration. Let's see if your honor, your honors and public opinion know. I had the honour to defend this eight-page document in the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies and in the Bureau of the General Courts at the time when the so-called code of conduct of parliamentarians was debated, another monumental chapuza, which is not a code of conduct because basic issues of parliamentary conduct eludes them and is simply a code of suspicion or pretends to be a code of gossip. [[shows a document]] Here we have proposed very clear amendments to accentuate that value of transparency, that is, so that this so-called declaration of economic interests fits perfectly into the constitutional legal system and the regulations of this House and increases the value of transparency by making it a declaration of professional interests, which must detail, five years in advance, all those of your ladies and gentlemen who intend to request from this House a compatibility to exercise parliamentary work and at the same time a professional work of a private nature. This is literally in the sessions of the Congressional Bureau and the Senate Bureau. I can give it to any of your ladies and gentlemen who are interested, and perhaps some of them will be ashamed to see the text that has come out and the text that we are presenting. Therefore, Mr Navalpotro, here we are not prepared for you to communicate, without the House's reply, with mill wheels to Spanish society. This initiative is not intended to favour any of these general principles which your lordship has said in the reply. It is intended exclusively to bureaucratise parliamentary activity, establish elements of control in the worst sense of the word in spontaneous communication, free communication, the natural between society and Parliament, and thus minimise the principle of representation and the principle of participation. [[Applauds]] It serves no purpose in order to fulfill something that is essential: to determine the role of pressure groups because it is an initiative that has no sustainability from the point of view of technical rigour. In short, all they intend to do - in addition, by the way - is to cheat and take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid. That is to say, that you bring here this initiative in which you provide for sanctions for interest groups and Members who fail to fulfil their obligations - which is a good thing if the initiative were a considerable initiative - but beyond that you are going through with a general regime of sanctions for Members and a sanctioning procedure which is absolutely banana. Because, ladies and gentlemen, these gentlemen claim that any Member, the Bureau of the House, the Bureau of any Commission or the Secretary-General of Congress can denounce another parliamentary group or other Member - that is, the Marimorena - and turn the Committee on the Statute of the Deputy into a court of honour which acts as an instructor, which is absolutely in the spirit of the prohibition imposed by our Constitution. So, Mr. Navalpotro, less stories, less grandiloquence, less demagogy; lessons neither. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Gil Lazarus. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oramas González-Moro, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group seeks to regulate interest groups, i.e. natural or legal persons, organisations or networks of all kinds who carry out activities of influence in the Congress of Deputies. The influence on Members of Parliament has existed since the beginning of the history of parliamentarianism around the world and, well understood, is positive. We are here to legislate on aspects that have to do with the life and future of people and organizations, and we must listen to them so that the legislation we adopt will be in line with the needs of this society that we serve. However, this influence is harmful when it goes beyond that, when it intends to direct our activity towards the personal or particular interests of a particular group or sector above the general interest. That is why this proposal seems appropriate to us and we believe that it is time for Congress to regulate and give transparency to something that is happening in this House and in all the parliaments of the world. In the process of this proposal, we can discuss some aspects of the proposal that will certainly be improveable, because claiming that a collective or association of neighbours or a collective of an autonomous community or of a municipality or of an island register is absurd and it is clear that these meetings are essential to be able to exercise our representation in an appropriate way and not to isolate ourselves from the social reality in which we are immersed. To this proposal, however, we must add - and in this sense our work plan will be in the paper - an outstanding subject of this Congress: the regulation of the status of non-attached Members of Parliament when they leave the parliamentary group to which they belong when the legislature begins. In this respect, there was consensus among all the political forces in the various presentations in which I took part and which were made in several legislatures to amend the Rules of Procedure. However, for reasons other than this particular point, there was no amendment to the Regulation. The Spanish parliamentary system is a system of closed lists in the Congress of Deputies. We can discuss whether it would be possible and necessary in the future to move to one of the open lists, but for the time being this is what we have and, within the closed list system, Members of Parliament are here because they choose us a political party to be on an electoral list and people vote for us because they vote for the party we are part of. If, moreover, our work is recognized and valued, as it should be, our personal push provides a plus to that election that each voter makes. We are not here in our capacity as wise or expert, being part of a committee; we are here with a political formation behind us, with affiliates who hit posters and knock door to door sharing votes and not for ourselves. Therefore, when a person who is elected by this system decides to abandon his or her political formation for any reason is in his or her right to do so - he or she is not being prevented from changing his or her mind - but cannot obtain a benefit from it, and the same must apply to the case where the expulsion - legally and for legitimate reasons - of a Member of the group to which he or she belongs. Political formations and Spanish legislation already took a very important step in this direction when the Anti-Transfuguism Pact was created, which amended, for local administrations, municipalities and lobbyists, the sections of the Electoral Regime Act necessary to ensure that a transfer could not benefit economically from being so. However, nothing similar has been done in this Congress of Deputies. The regulation of the condition of non-subscription has been in existence for years in the autonomous parliaments, and I will give you the example of the Canary Islands, which I know best, which many legislatures have reformed its Rules of Procedure to establish the conditions under which a Member who leaves the parliamentary group remains. In the Canary Islands, if this is the case, the MP declared in non-subscription has the right to submit any individual initiatives, questions or requests for documentation, but cannot submit group initiatives because it no longer belongs to any group. You have the right to belong to a parliamentary committee, but not to intervene on behalf of any group, because you are not part of any group. It receives compensations and allowances received by any Member, but not an allocation of any kind corresponding to the group. Why? Because it is not part of any group and because, according to the anti-transfuguism pact, no one can benefit from leaving the political group of which it was part. It receives the material means to be able to carry out its work - office or place of work, computer or other - directly from the Bureau of Parliament, therefore, without detracting resources from any parliamentary group, including the Joint, because a non-attached Member does not belong to the Joint Group, but to the non-attached Members. I will explain to those potential Members what the Joint Group is. The Joint Group is not the group to which Members who do not have a group go; the Joint Group is the group to which we are going the Members who did not have enough members in their constitution to form their own group, which is very different. Using the Joint Group for something else is a lack of respect for the Members who are part of it. We have presented ourselves to an election within political formations that, because they belong to a single community or because they have not obtained sufficient support to have five deputies, we have been sharing a group since the beginning of the legislature. It is not fair that a Member who leaves any parliamentary group in this House can charge more, present more initiatives or have more parliamentary relevance than his colleagues in the parliamentary group he leaves. It's that simple. That is why it is high time that the Rules of Congress were brought up to date on this issue, as most autonomous parliaments have done for a long time. We will support this initiative and put forward the necessary amendments for Congress to assume in its Rules of Procedure the two outstanding aspects that I have raised: the regulation of interest groups, as set out in the proposal under discussion, and the regulation of non-adscription in the terms that I have put forward in my speech. It's time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u49	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u50	Pick it up on. Good afternoon and thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we are taking a positive step. I was curious to hear Mr. Gil Lázaro oppose this measure because I believe it may be insufficient - I agree with that, that we should approach it in its greater globality in this interconnected and transversal world in which we live - but, of course, oppose a measure that can be positive, even at the level of the Congress of Deputies, at least curious. Mr. Navalpotro said that this comes forty years later. I agree. But this delay is more evident from the moment it exists in other parliaments and in the European institutions. Since 2011 it is quite common to see lobbyists through the corridors of the European Parliament with their brown identification card. Likewise, it is late since the Greek, since 2018, has already affected the Spanish state that there is no compulsory public register of interest groups. Therefore, welcome be this measure, although we too see some shortcomings and gaps, which then, if I have time, I will mention. The greatest of the virtualities that can have a record of these interest groups, of these lobbies, at the level of Congress, is to give more transparency. It is an accountability to citizens on where some of the measures that are approved can proceed. I have more reservations about everything that has to do with anti-corruption measures - which it can also have - or against dark practices, but I think that for this we should go to something much more global, something that will address all administrations and even political parties. Look, one of the latest X-rays that the European Commission has done on corruption at European level, as far as Spain is concerned, focused especially on everything that has to do with urban development - of course, dependent on local governments or autonomous administrations on many occasions - and on everything that has to do with large political parties. There, as far as the Congress of Deputies is concerned, well, as a measure to prevent it is, of course, but I think it is short in trying to address the problem of corruption that this state has. [[The Lord]] Look, it is obvious that the term lobby in the culture of the Spanish State does not enjoy the best connotations. In other political cultures and in other States it has other connotations and has been regulated for many years, but in all that has to do with State policy it has at least suspicious connotations. This morning, speaking with a colleague, I said: I am a spokesman in the Foreign, Interior and some other Committee, and I gather, speak or receive information from lobbies or interest groups every week; the interest groups or lobbies with which I speak can be Amnesty International, CEAR, Iridia or Walking Borders, which are very transparent - in fact, all the information that sends me or another Member also hangs on social networks - but it is true that in other committees, other Members and other Members have meetings with other Interest Groups, whether in the energy or economic sphere, which can leave a shadow or halo of doubt. It is therefore right that all of them should be given transparency. Are all lobbies, all interest groups, the same? No, no, Does everyone have to be treated the same? I think so. It doesn't hurt anyone, it's nothing bad, it's nothing negative. I mean, as a step in favour of transparency, I see it well. However, I recalled this morning that one of the advertisements given by a former spokesman for the Socialist Party - who now works in a group of those who connect large companies with the administration - was to have the ability to talk to all the ministers; he did not talk to the Members and the Members, he spoke to all the ministers. That is why I share what a spokesman said as to whether it remains a little lame or as a limited measure that is only contemplated at the level of the Congress of Deputies, or the same also of the Senate, because this gentleman, as I say, spoke with ministers, not with deputies. Likewise, today I have received the book of our colleague Gerardo Pisarello, which is entitled Stop being subjects, in which he talks about the corruption and the choriceo of the former head of state. Well, a log of lobbies, a log of interest groups, or a daily agenda might have prevented some of those chanchullos and would have been something positive. Why not also ask the Royal House, now that it is planning to change its agenda and those ethical values, to include an agenda of this kind and a group of lobbies that can be inscribed in it? Look - at the last minute I have left - the gaps I see are that everything that has to do with the influence that political parties may have is taken, because a lobby can influence a political party and that policy, which is a party policy, will then be defended by parliamentarians who in theory have not received any direct or indirect influence. Similarly, it seems to me that it is not the same interest group that defends public policies, human rights or environmental rights as one that defends economic interests, and you want to regulate for the same purpose all the members of this House. Similarly, we see that this - and I conclude, Madam President - would also need more technical and human support for the parliamentary groups, as it will entail an important bureaucratic burden. As I have already said, we believe it is positive, we believe it is a step and therefore we will vote in favour and in the presentation procedure we will make the contributions...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Iñarritu, your time is up. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u52	Thank you very much, President. The debate on the regulation of lobbies in the central branches of the State, Legislature and Executive, dates back to the same constitutional debates around the right of initiative and for interest groups whose activity was permanent, a debate that ultimately did not prosper in the final drafting of the current article 105 of the Constitution. The debate has come up to the present day without for the time being any regulation in the central branches, as I said, despite attempts, beyond the CNMC, in a special way since the XI Legislature, highlighting with respect to the Executive branch the frustrated attempt through amendments in the processing of the transparency bill and in the XI and XII Legislatures several initiatives to regulate interest groups in the field of this House. We are now again discussing the question of the interaction of the lobbies with the Congress of Deputies, in view of the fact that this new regulatory attempt is being implemented through the reform of the Rules, which obliges us to stick to their object, as provided for in article 72 of the Constitution, since it is not possible to regulate the lobbyism that is practiced around the Executive Power, even though the markets of influence - it has already been pointed out - are mainly concentrated on the branch of the Executive Power and its public sector, because it is generally more attractive to the interests of interest groups than the legislative branch. However, if certain are the constitutional limitations of the Regulation for the extramural regulations of its activity, it is no less true that the Government could have referred a bill to regulate in its field, in parallel with how the political party that supports it in this House has done it for this, which reminds us of the correctness of Romanones when he said: Let them make the law, that I will make the regulation. Moreover, it shows - beyond the political opportunism of which we realize - that all stages of the elaboration of a public policy entail risks of bad practices related to lobism, including the rotating doors, and that the avoidance of its pernicious effects is achieved by regulating the activity that must become mainly in the demand of transparency both of the activity of the lobbyist and of the regulator, so that the activity is accessible to the general public, especially to those who may be affected by the corresponding regulation on which the lobbies have acted, a recommendation to which the previous one of the European Commission has also joined, urging States parties to regulate the activity of the lobbies so that it is known who they are doing it, who they are doing it, what they are dealing with, what results they have and how much they are being spent, the latter question, of course, which is not in the initiative. However, ladies and gentlemen, we also have to point out that the regulation of lobbyism where it has the most significance and meaning is in countries such as the United States of America, where every member of the House responds to the direct interests of its constituents, almost without mediation of the political party with which it competes as a mark the electoral process and also to whom it has financed the electoral campaign, which, as we know from a nearby Supreme Court ruling, no longer has limits. On the contrary, in the countries of the Union, unlike in Parliament and in the Commission, the political tradition and greater ideology of political parties and of the same parliamentary groups makes ideological vitality in the face of influence by third parties much less relevant. The proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure does not take these considerations into account, by incorporating a series of rigidities which would lead to serious inconsistencies in the political activities of the parliamentary groups. Thus, the consideration of interest group is so broad that no one, without being registered, will be able to transfer their views on any kind of parliamentary initiative, nor will Members and groups receive them. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that it is wise to extend this requirement to natural or legal persons whose activity about the House is sporadic or non-permanent? Or is it the same a large company, a law firm, an advisory body acting on behalf of others or a powerful NGO as a small association or legal person or individuals directly affected by something being dealt with in the House? Everyone is forced to pass through the professional lobbyists who act on behalf of others. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sometimes accused of being in a glass box and this initiative can increase it, closing the door even further to those who already have the most difficulties so that their demands can be heard directly. Therefore, the concept of interest group and influence activity requires a thorough examination so as not to generate worse situations than those that are intended to be solved. The same can be said - it has already been pointed out - of the exemptions to the registration obligation for certain personifications or of the exemption from the obligation to publicize the content of what has been transferred to parliamentarians and to parliamentary groups. Nor does it seem to us right to regulate the so-called legislative footprint, not so much because of the publicity of the content of what is transferred to Members and to the parliamentary groups in an activity of influence, but because it has to explain to what extent it has been taken into account in parliamentary activity, in the form of an explanation of vote or position. Nor do we see the reason for the different consideration, for advertising purposes, between the interlocution, which has a much more severe regime, and the reference to the documentation given, when it usually has a much more concrete content and worked for the sake of the activity of influence and is also projected on the initiatives with the most significant, which are the legislative ones. I'll finish it, President. I will not point out, because I am running out of time, more incongruities and rigidities, than there are. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not oppose the process of the initiative, but it certainly requires a thorough review, but we want all of this to be catapardism or even worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u53	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u54	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are pleased that the Socialist Party has finally joined the consensus established in this House on the regulation of interest groups. I know it's not easy to move from 1936 to 2050 in a few months, a journey in Mr. Sánchez's time without any machine that would have made George Wells himself pale; although this going back and then forward, rather than Wells, reminds me of Dr. Emmett Brown and the DeLorean's coming back to the future. He thus transformed Sanchez into Marty McFly, who traversed his past to try to transform his future. I don't know how Mr. Sánchez will go on that trip, what I do know is that this attempt has skipped the present, which is where we all have a problem with the Spaniards. Returning to this present, let me tell you, Mr Navalpotro, that it was you who were the last to arrive at this station of transparency and accountability, and it was my party, Citizens, that registered and presented in this House, there by September 2016, the first of the initiatives for the regulation of these interest groups. However, with the text that you are presenting to us, it seems that it is the Government that again intends to tell the Legislature, this Congress of Deputies and the Senate, how and in what way they should do their work, because in what goes in the legislature, it seems that the Government is committed to controlling the Courts and you are not in the Government. This Government and the parliamentary groups in which it is supported want to achieve the inoperability of the legislative power. The thirty-three extensions of the deadline - yes, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-three - of the Minimum Life Income Act, since June 2020 - will make almost two years of blockage by the Bureau of Congress, which control the Socialist Party and the United We can -, or the thirty extensions of the Act on Economic Revitalization by the COVID crisis in the field of transport and housing, or the fifteen, since December 2020, of the Law on Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Dependency, or the twelve on nursing ratios to ensure patient safety, or that of citizen security, which you have blocked since October 2020. [[Applauds]] Max Weber said that whoever does politics aspires to power, and that is no less so, because, who does politics today in Spain? Political parties, of course, as enshrined in Article 6 of our Constitution, although perhaps for you the Spanish Constitution should say: only political parties that support governments; as your lordships of the Socialist Party and of the United Podemos continually demonstrate. Do they make political interest groups? We understand that yes, as they attempt to influence one or more persons exercising power, they intend to direct part of the normative production in a given direction. For Transparency International, lobbying is a legitimate activity and an important aspect of the democratic process. We agree with them that there is a public interest in ensuring the transparency of these groups, as well as the diversity in participation and their contribution to decision-making processes on public affairs. We also agree that the measures taken to ensure these transparency objectives should be equally proportionate and appropriate for that purpose, while not hindering individual rights of assembly, freedom of expression and petition to the Government. We therefore agree on the need to regulate and give visibility to the legitimate exercise of this activity in Congress, but we do not agree at the moment or in the text. At the moment, because it does not seem reasonable to legislate on this matter without having done so before with the State Administration itself; it seems more logical to wait for the text prepared by the Ministry of Territorial Policy and Public Service to avoid contradictions between the two. It is also extremely curious that there is no broad approach to the concept of influence of interest groups as envisaged for the Community register. The regulation of the joint register in the Commission and the European Parliament speaks of influence on the development or implementation of policies and on the decision-making processes of the institutions of the Union. The regulation, which is not consistent with this objective it seeks, is to avoid undue influence in situations of conflict of interest. This you have brought to us seems more like a government control tool to the members of the General Courts than anything else. In view of the best precedent, which is the European Parliament, it is critical that, unlike what is happening at Community level, you do not unify a shared system of courts and government of the nation in a single register. At Community level, the transparency register is unique for the Commission and for the European Parliament, in fact, it would also be appropriate to establish rules on interoperability of registers and mutual recognition of interest groups in other Chambers, such as in the European Parliament itself or in regional parliaments, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely curious that Members of the General Courts should disclose and publish their contacts with the diplomatic representations of foreign States, but, hey, the members of the Government of the nation do not have to do anything, as we have seen a little while ago with the Delcy case. Also the measure agreed for four years after leaving the seat in Congress the impossibility of exercising as a lobbyist, we understand that it goes beyond what the Act itself establishes incompatibilities, which is only two years old. It seems disproportionate that a person who has not held a position in the Administration, has neither had access to public funds nor to public procurement may be limited in his or her professional career beyond what is provided for in the Incompatibilities Act. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you have brought a hasty text full of legal and regulatory inconsistencies that we will try to improve during your processing. We are confident that this proposal will not succeed as others we have already commented on and will not follow the same fate as minimum living income, dependency, citizen security, transportation and housing or official secrets, and so up to twenty-two laws that you have had blocked for more than six months. Without processing, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and the United We can, you will achieve Mr Sánchez's great goal, which is no other than the Congress of Deputies, nor legislation, nor control of the Government. They will, yes, with the silent and complicit agreement of all those who claimed to come to regenerate public life, but stayed on the journey nowhere, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG defends maximum transparency in public management, but also that it must be at the service of the interests of the social majority; therefore we reject all kinds of interference and pressure from economic interests on the public authorities. However, we doubt that it will really help to put an end to these pressures by legalizing the professional lobbyist figure, especially in a state where some of the leading lobbyists are former ministers, ex-parliamentaries and high-ranking officials of traditional bipartisanship, especially because the great economic powers have other means and interlocutors. You never cared about regulating or banning revolving doors; on the contrary, you greased them with the direct participation of the President of the Government and ministers. It seems that there both PSOE and Popular Party have no discrepancy. But, in addition, it seems unacceptable that to give a letter of nature and appearance of decency in relations with the great economic powers introduce anti-democratic elements that hinder the work of relationship with society. Because, do you consider it no longer democratic and left-wing, but simply formal, to treat as Repsol or Naturg and as a platform of retirees? Do you consider it logical to demand the same from IBEX 35 companies as from social platforms and non-profit entities? We are not going to oppose this consideration because we agree that we are debating this, but we have already warned that these anti-social or anti-democratic aspects are being corrected...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u58	Thank you, President. This debate is very timely, especially after the previous debate on electricity. We recognize that this proposal is a good start. Transparency laws undoubtedly democratize, but it is also true that they are weakening as we approach decision-making. A clear example: 2018, Europe, the meetings held with private business lobbies were 90%, while the meetings devoted to those representing the public interest were 10%. Unbalance, isn't it? That is why it is important to regulate the lobbies, linking with the laws the agendas and the improvement of the normative footprint, to complete a system of transparency that is still unambitious in our country and to follow the traceability of public decisions. There are a number of important improvements to the text that we are going to propose. I will quote, at least, five important improvements. First, we must introduce and develop more ambitious standards, such as those that drive Transparency International or Access Info Europe. Secondly, there is no need for the additional to make a specific regime for some entities. The regulations that we already have raise the possibility for these organisations. Finally, the agendas and the registration of interest groups must be linked and interlinked in order to unify the information of this and other institutions. It is very important to improve the content of obligations, budgets for lobbies, public contracts, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only a matter of democratic quality...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Sabanes. Your time's up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Pagès i Massó, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement makes that very clear. The new title 14 of the Regulation of the Congress that regulates the interest groups homologous to Spain with the countries of its environment. We cannot agree more, because in Catalonia, a country in the Spanish environment, a transparency law was already adopted in 2014 that included the mandatory registration of interest groups for all administrations and institutions. In 2015, Parliament's Regulation on the Development and Application of General Regulation was reformed. At the bottom of the matter, corruption is a matter of persistent topicality, one of the most important concerns of the citizenry. In the European Commission, the Greek reports have repeatedly highlighted the Spanish State for failing to comply with its recommendations in this area. In short, interest groups and their influence on parliamentary activity must, inexcusably, be regulated. This is not about monitoring the relations of political representatives with their representatives, it is about placing us in an ethical paradigm, that of the fight against corruption, the paradigm of good governance, transparency and institutional integrity. That is why we are voting in favour of this initiative, although there are some technical and some not so technical issues that we are deeply concerned about. First, the code of conduct provides for groups to behave with respect to the Constitution - article 211 - or to adapt their conduct to the Constitution - additional provision 2 -. Is this an obligation of ideological adherence to the Constitution? Independentist associations such as the ANC, the Consell per la República, those of a republican nature, etc. are to be excluded. That's where we won't pass. Secondly, more technical issues. The first, registration - it has already been pointed out - should be compulsory only for interest groups with a desire for permanence and continuity; for private citizens, for groups of citizens, for those affected by a specific parliamentary initiative, registration can be a barrier against the intended purpose, although it should be recorded on the agenda of all Members and on the legislative footprint. The second technical question - explained Mr Iñarritu - must be categorized into different types of interest groups with different regulations. They are not the same professional lobbies as sectoral consumer groups, commercial groups, trade unions or think tanks, ideological groups, non-governmental organisations. Various legal regimes need to be categorized and differentiated. Thirdly - it has also been pointed out - there should be a single register for all the institutions and therefore this leads us to a deficit of this regulation, which is obviously a specific regulation for this Legislative Chamber and not for all the institutions and administrations of the State, which is what it should be. Finally, the proposed reform of the Regulation includes a sanctioning regime for Members who cheat. This part does not seem problematic to us because what we Members have to do is comply with our transparency obligations. Some people do not like to comply with their obligations of transparency; I believe they are the same people who do not like democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u61	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u62	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I'm going to be succinct because there's already been a lot of argument. At the outset, we have said that we will vote in favour, on the understanding that all the comments we have made on how it is drafted would have your ear listened to at the time of the amendment procedure, because this is a proposal for a regulation, a consideration, which is very exciting, I will also tell you. It is regrettable - and I will try not to repeat myself - but in Catalonia we already have Law 19/2014 for the Administration, the Regulation is 2015; in the rest of the States it is already, and you, instead of bringing us a law on transparency, good governance, access to information and interest groups that concern the Administration and the Government, begin to teach the patita with Congress. It is not exciting, it is not revolutionary, but, as someone has said, it is a step and we will accompany you in the step or we will accompany you in the possible processing of this step. But it would be good for them to bring the one referring to the Government and the Administration, because it is true that it would be good to categorize legally so that the Rules of Congress later refer to that definite good. But, beyond the legislative technique and the differentiation between organizations and companies, what is unforgivable is that they have drawn political parties, trade unions and territorial organizations from the Rules of Procedure. We don't agree with that. Beyond that, the question is: is there no transparency in this Congress? Yes, there is a lack of transparency, and we will therefore accompany you, but there is a lack of transparency in this State. Let's see if they're a little braver and soon they'll bring us a law on Crown transparency. I no longer say a law of the Crown, I say a law of transparency about the Crown, because it turns out that I have to make my declaration of property, interests and so on. And listen, I find it fantastic; what you should laugh at with that statement, but I find it fantastic, I find it just. But we have neither the most remote idea of business, nor of travel, nor of chanchullos, nor of the sale of things to another state through the mediation of the head of state. We have no idea of all this; I don't know how they went hunting elephants, whether I paid for it or another; I don't know how it is now in Arabia, whether I pay for its security system or others pay for it. That is what this State needs, transparency, because, at least, since we do not vote for it, since we have to swallow it whether we like it or not, we want to know what it costs us, what it does and what it is dedicated to. Because international references do not leave the emeritus well standing. That's right, the current one, who's very prepared, hasn't given us those little... Well, he did, yeah, but let's see we don't see him, right, PSOE? We make it look like we don't see it. In the end, it turns out that the constitutional monarchy is a great system of state. Don't tell me, you were Republicans and we are now, and before a Crown law we would have to make a law for a referendum and change the state system. I also say that it gives me a little bit the same, because my model of state is another, but it goes for you. Therefore, transparency in Members? Yeah. Transparency in everything to do with public funds? Also. But is this the only need this Congress, or Parliament, has, or do you want to tell it as you wish? No, it needs transparency, much more, but it also needs democracy, because in this Chamber we cannot talk about a possible organic amnesty law because the Bureau does not accept it. And you know what happens? That you have been saying for years that we play the constitutional game, that we come here and expose, but it's no use. Whether they prejudge whether a rule is constitutional or not; whether they read the Constitution as if it were the tables of Moses. Because sometimes I wonder if they are not at the time of the tables of Moses, that is also true. But if we can't talk about anything that our people have voted us to do. Therefore, transparency, yes, we will help. And democracy, please. Are you not ashamed that this House cannot talk about all the political issues affecting the State and its citizens? So, you know what? It is neither a Congress nor a democracy, and for that it is neither necessary nor transparent. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u63	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u64	Thank you very much, President. Obviously, we will support the need to regulate interest groups, because we have been fighting for a long time for this in this House, but we cannot do so from the liberal myth that civil society is an idyllic space of equality between individuals and groups, because that is not the case. Behind civil society is often camouflaged the commercial society, which, as we know, is not just SMEs, but which are crossed by monopolies, oligopolies and large private groups that want to influence not the legislative process, but to capture public institutions to put them at their service. So, do we have to regulate these interest groups? Yes, but we must know that not everyone is pursuing the same interest, that not everyone has the same weight on the market, that not everyone has the same economic resources to defend them. Do they have the same interests as the Mortgage Platform and the Tenants Union, which were created to avoid evictions, to guarantee the dignity of the right to housing, as BlackRock, a megafund of investment that has assets that amount to seven times the Spanish gross domestic product, with shares in all IBEX companies and one of the main lobbies against the regulation of rents? How will Aigua es Vida Ecologistas en Acción, who have been defending water for years as an essential asset for the life and maintenance of ecosystems, have the same interest as a company such as Agbar, a subsidiary of the giant Suez, which in Catalonia has devoted enormous resources to criminalizing activists and has put more than forty-two lawsuits to local municipalities and entities simply for wanting to municipalize the water service, as has been done in Berlin or Paris? Evidently, a democratic state worthy of that name should force these great lobbies out of the shadows, acting as visible powers and not as a sort of crypto-government that would prefer to impose its decision directly on this Parliament. And for that it will not be enough simply with a regulation, because these powers - as Elias Canetti would say today - are specialists in shielding the opacity of the 1% to which they belong and maximizing the visibility of the remaining 99%. For that, beyond the regulations, other things are needed: investing in media, social media, fake news and, above all, law firms that a small NGO will never have access to. We can tell them, in fact, that they are registered and that they respect the Constitution, but let us not rule out, as the real estate employer in Barcelona did, that the next day they can create an organization called Lawyers by the Constitution that takes care of the opposite, to defame activists who defend the constitutional right to housing and try to take away from them all the aid they have received or have been receiving legally and legitimately for a long time. [[applause]] We can ask them to report on the businesses they have in areas such as health care, pensions, housing, and perhaps so, but I assure them that they will then try to make it absolutely invisible through the Spanish mainstream media, almost all of them participating today in investment funds such as Amber Active, BlackRock or Brookfield. And let us not be fooled, Your Honor, because - it has also been said here - many of these great lobbies, especially those who represent the Rentist economy of the easy ball, finance or have close ties also with parties sitting in this House. I don't think it's necessary to be Sherlock Holmes to warn why there are people from the far right who don't want to declare where and for whom they've worked in recent years, or the gifts or donations they've received. [[Applauds]] And it does not seem to me that this is simply a legal problem; I believe that it would indeed be evident that behind the bracelet with the flag and the bountiful and martial chest hides, as Antonio Machado would say, the party of those who never stop looking at their business and who would be willing to give to the homeland if it were necessary to defend it. [[Applauds]] We believe that the influence of interest groups should indeed be regulated by clear rules and sanctions; that they should be clear to the public power that we represent ourselves, but also to the private power. Because that regulation, I insist, cannot be naive regulation, it must start from a social reality that is enormously unequal. Therefore, in order for freedom and equality to be real and effective, what needs to be done is to remove the obstacles that prevent that from happening, what is said in Article 9.2 of the 1978 Constitution and is what by system forgets the self-called right-wing constitutionalists when they remind us of the legal order. Those obstacles today, here and now have name and surname, are Blackstone, are the BlackRock, are the big lobbies that in the middle of the pandemic have precarioused the work to exhaustion and have speculated without blush with basic goods such as food, like vaccines, like housing simply to multiply their benefits. Do we want to regulate its influence in the legislative process? So let's stop putting red carpets on them, and let's put some restraints on them. Does it help us to force them out of the darkness like vampires, through a record of their dialogue with Congress? If it is done with realism and courage, of course it helps, but together with it we must demerchantly and shield basic social and environmental rights such as housing, health, water, energy and we must give effective voice not to those who without running for election vote every day thanks to the economic power they have, but to those who are not sufficiently heard: SMEs, cooperatives, the abandoned rural world, the world of work, the world of culture, feminist movements, environmental movements, young creators, that is, all those who make up this economy that is not monopolistic, that is not extractive and in which a more modern and more democratic model of society can already be seen. [[Applauds]] Because, if we do not, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not understand that this is also going to democratize politics and democratize the economy, what can happen is that this regulation, which is undoubtedly necessary, which is certainly important, can pass into history as a sterile attempt and at the end frustrating of trying to stop the jamming of a train without brakes with a Bible in hand. And that, for reasons of elementary democracy, we cannot allow it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Navarro López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Navalpotro, I wanted to thank you for the tone, sincerely, and also for what I think may be partly a good intention, but you have two problems. The first is that this is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the House and, as such, it must have absolute majority. Who are you going to vote for this with? With those who just insulted the Head of State? With those who are only seeing part of the initiative? With those who systematically insult everyone else? With the People's Party, which you haven't called at all? This is a direct message to the institutional relations sector: the Socialist Group does not want to amend the regulation. Because, as you yourself have acknowledged, this requires absolute majority. And the second of his problems is sitting there. [[Report to the Government bench]] Well, there is no one today, but you do have Mrs Lastra, who this morning gave a press conference and said, literally, the Socialist Party wants glass walls. Do you look glass to see the negotiations with Bildu? Do you look glass to be given the report of the Council of State on European funds? Do you look glass to be given SEPIe's documentation on aid to Plus Ultra? Do you look like glass to what and to whom, Socialist Party gentlemen? Just for what they want. [[Applauds]] Because, Mrs Lastra, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Mr Navalpotro, there are three hundred and thirty petitions for the appearance of pending ministers, three hundred and seventy-six petitions for the appearance of outstanding high-ranking officials only from the Group of the European People's Party, complaints of the European Union's lack of transparency, have failed to comply with six out of ten transparency Council resolutions, and they come here to teach us lessons, of what? Transparency, the rest? The less transparent government of history, which, as has been said, in the midst of the pandemic, has uploaded the web of transparency so that no one knows what they are doing. And, facing - and these are data - is the People's Party. Indeed, in 2013 we passed the first law on transparency and access to information and good governance in Spain. The Transparency Council and the website were created. By the way, nine years ago the declarations of property and activities of his lordships were launched - no one has remembered it -. Speaking of declarations of property and of concealing the truth, the whole truth and nothing more than the Truth, a affectionate greeting, on behalf of all the Socialist Party deputies to the former Minister Huerta and to the Minister Duque. In 2014, a resolution was adopted in the state of the nation debate that the PSOE fell to set in motion work to regulate interest groups in this Congress. In 2017, the People's Group brought back a legislative initiative on this issue. What did Podemos say, Mr Pisarello, when talking about the People's Group's legislative initiative in 2017? That the record - the deputy is sitting here - was a barren spurt. But what did the Socialist Group say? Do you know what the Socialist Group said, Mr Navalpotro? The order should be the reverse: first the government. Where is the Government's initiative on public display? Why do they not first regulate Ivan Redondo's obligation to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth of whom he meets? [[Applauds]] Obviously, because they don't care. The Socialist Group said that the lobby was regulated first in the Government when the initiative was of the People's Group. Lessons, the fair ones. You have spoken of the constituent process. In 1978, the first person who spoke of lobbying in this House was Don Manuel Fraga Iribarne, who had just been ambassador of Spain to London and who, from his experience in that country of accessing the lobby, proposed that our Constitution regulate interest groups. And you don't have to tell them who took the initiative: the left. Evidently, the left. The reality, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, is that I believe that the legislative initiative has not been read. They haven't read it. You haven't read it, Mrs. Lastra. Because you divide it into four parts. First: definitions. Mr. Pisarello, what is an interest group? It is all that structure that is directed, with direct or indirect communication, towards the legislator or the executive with a single intention: to influence the public decision-making process. Is this a lobby for the Mortgage-Affected Platform? Of course I do. According to the doctrine - I recommend Baumgarten, Locke, I recommend a very interesting presentation that was defended at the World Congress of Sociology, in 2018 in Toronto, on the reverse revolving door and Ada Colau - the Mortgage Affected Platform is a lobby. But the People's Party doesn't say it, the whole world doctrine says it, and you recognize it. I ask again: Has the initiative been read? Because what you've come here to say is: lobby good, lobby bad. And there's no good lobby and bad lobby, no good interest group. We legislate for everyone, absolutely for everyone; therefore, if we legislate a lobby, we have to legislate absolutely everyone. You talk about registration, but you invest the burden of proof in this too with the legislative footprint. Do you know which government has a legislative footprint at the moment in Spain? The Junta de Castilla y León, governed by the People's Party. And since we are talking about the legislative footprint and transparency, Mr Navalpotro, who has drafted the initiative they have put forward? For to all that we have been investigating in this a few years the text sounds to us; and a lot, by the way, and a lot. Be transparent. Pull the legislative footprint. Who has written this text? I'm interested in knowing, and I'm sure your honors too. Who has proposed to you that the burden of proof be reversed in the disciplinary regime and, above all, in the legislative footprint? The PPL of the 2017 People's Parliamentary Group said that the lobbyist, the interest group had to bear the burden of proof; his invests it and is the deputy. I ask you again: who has written this initiative? Because I think it would be a very relevant fact. Finally - and with this I conclude - the disciplinary regime. Look at the table. What you see behind it is a table with most lefts. Mr Pisarello, a majority of the Left, but I suppose you are aware that at some point- sooner rather than later, I assure you - here there will be no majority of the Left, and, according to this initiative, the Bureau will tell us all the Members with whom we can meet, with whom we can meet! And this, of course, is unconstitutional for a great many reasons. In addition to what has already been mentioned, a minister of justice can be a lobbyist in two years and a deputy in four. We already know that a minister of justice can be attorney general in one day. We already knew that, but now we also know that the law of the high office is charged, because the two years pass them to four. I repeat, gentlemen of the left... [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Navarro, your time is up. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u68	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, concerning the urgent convening of the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u69	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now becoming a recurrent fact for my parliamentary group to have to put forward initiatives urging this government to something as intrinsic to any Democrat as it is to comply with the law and to comply with the resolutions adopted by Parliament. But that is another distinctive note that the ineffable Pedro Sánchez, who is increasingly close to his totalitarian partners in government and further away from parliamentary democracy, has managed to print in his executive. Today's Minister of Health said on September 4, 2020, after the penultimate Conference of Presidents: 'Until we finally defeat this damn pandemic, we must continue to articulate a coordinated response from all governments to keep the virus out of the way and build a new country that will allow us to face the future with guarantees'. Well, that said on 4 September 2020 in what it defined as the cornerstone of territorial cooperation and co-governance, that is, a Conference of Presidents. And it is that one of the problems of this government is that with the same speed with which it invents terms - in this case, co-governance - it is able to take them out of meaning and content. In other words, pure terminology to refer to what is simply the observance of the principles of cooperation, collaboration and coordination which govern the territorial organization of the State in Title VIII of our Constitution, and which must govern the relations between the different territorial administrations and their relationship with the central administration. Well, after the conference held on 26 October 2020 - one day after the declaration of the second state of alarm for the whole of Spain since the start of the pandemic - it has not met again, and it will not be because there have not been many presidents of autonomous communities of different ideologies and political parties who have required the celebration and convening of the pandemic. But, moreover, Mr Sánchez himself flagrantly fails to comply with Article 14 of Royal Decree 956/2020 of 3 November, extending the state of alarm declared by Royal Decree 926/2020 of 25 October, in which under the heading 'Accounting' it is established: 'Also, after four months of this extension, the Conference of Autonomic Presidents will be able to make a proposal to the Government to lift the state of alarm, subject to the favourable agreement of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in view of the evolution of health, epidemiological, social and economic indicators'. That four-month period expired on 9 March without the convening of the conference. That is to say, in breach of the mandate of this House to authorise the extension. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you have agreed and fully agree with this article on accountability, by which we present this non-legislative proposal. And why do you remember that? Because it was you yourself who demanded control and accountability from the government. It was many of the parliamentary groups that recorded motions for resolutions similar to those that were finally adopted and, more specifically, it was Republican Left that recorded this resolution, which is subject to the six-month extension. Aren't we going to demand your compliance? Will those of us who put forward these proposals be able not to demand them now? Was that more of a Pedro Sánchez scam? But the problem is, are we going to let everyone fool us again? It is also relevant to call it because legislative reforms continue to be necessary to provide the autonomous communities with the legal tools to be able to take measures to contain the transmission of the virus and to protect the health of citizens in their respective territories. And why? Because the virus is still there. Systematically, the Government has ignored the alternative legal plan that the People's Parliamentary Group has presented to Congress, and so, as we said it was going to happen, the various autonomous groups have been called upon to adopt their own laws in order to take preventive measures to protect their people. In some cases they have been ratified by their respective higher courts of justice, but in other cases these laws or measures have been rejected. This legal uncertainty in no way can be attributed to the courts, which perform their work in interpreting the rules in force, but rather to the abandonment of their functions and to the absolute desire of this evil Government with a pandemic that is still there. And it is not only that this parliamentary group or the other groups of the House are disheartened, but that the autonomous communities are disheartened, the doctrine that almost unanimously requires reforms or the higher consultative body itself of the Government, the Council of State, which in a March opinion already demanded legislation in this regard. But there is more, even yesterday the Supreme Court - in a judgment rejecting the appeal of the Government of the Canary Islands after the notification of the perimeter closure of the islands due to the high incidence of COVID - also gave us the reason, reinforcing our insistence on the need to have a pandemic law, by establishing that an ordinary law is sufficient to limit rights, but that it would be desirable to have a specific one for the pandemic. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it does not correspond to the Constitution the assertion that any limitation of a fundamental right must be made unique and exclusively by an organic law, but that it may also be developed through other legislation, such as a pandemic law. We have been able to see how even the Supreme Court is already saying that its alternative to the proposal of a pandemic law that has promoted and promoted President Casado, its cassation appeal to the Supreme Court to our legal plan B, is an ineffective measure, a slow measure, a measure that will not solve a general problem of the whole Spanish territory. For this reason, this non-legislative proposal is of full relevance and remains as necessary as at the beginning of the pandemic. This non-legislative proposal for which we call for support calls on the Government to get to work immediately and to convene the autonomous presidents, as almost all of them have been demanding from the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u70	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u71	It must be recognized that, on the occasion of the pandemic, the President of the Government and the Presidents of the Autonomous Communities have met, albeit virtually, more times than ever, and now that the circumstances are changing, I think it is a good time for them to meet again to reflect and even plan for the immediate future, because this is really not over. Neither the pandemic nor much less the economic crisis is over, which is the great challenge for the coming years. In this line, with this constructive character, the urgent call is necessary and we will support it from the Regionalist Party of Cantabria. But what cannot be done is that it is used as a platform on which each president, instead of speaking on behalf of his or her autonomous community, speaks on behalf of his or her political party and is a continuation of the debate we have every Wednesday in this House.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u72	Thank you very much. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that simply seeing the royal decree would be reason enough not to have to bring the matter here and to have the Conference of Presidents meet. It's okay for him to meet. Having said that, it must be remembered that all the presidents of the autonomous communities are the ordinary representatives of the State at that conference, so if we see that a president, when he takes office, the first thing you say is that he aims first to obtain a referendum on self-determination and then a Catalan independent republic, it is obvious that he will hardly do that role. If, moreover, it does so in front of two people who are imprisoned for a sedition crime against the State, against Spain, it still complicates things further. If that is done, in addition, with the satisfaction and the plea of the corresponding Minister of the Government of Spain, it is still a little more complicated. If we add to this that they are happy and delighted, because the President of the Government himself has said that there is no rematch in the Constitution and that, therefore, pardon is something that must be granted to these people, what more can we ask? Obviously, revenge is not in the Constitution, but neither is the right to decide nor the right to self-determination. Therefore, the Spanish Government is in compliance with the Constitution itself, its loyalty to the Constitution itself and its compliance with each and every law. If anyone who has committed a crime is going to open the prison door - we have already seen that they are going to do it with those of the sedition and that they have already done it and are doing it with etarras -, there is only...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Adanero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Mr. Vice President. Be clear, because I am not sure, whether this is the point of the People's Parliamentary Group on the Conference of Presidents. Isn't that the CUP on the Amnesty Act? [[Laughter and applause]] I'm a little confused, I'm telling you. As I am also going to intervene in the next one, I thought it had moved forward. Well, if it's about the Conference of Presidents, I'll be brief and concise. I think this initiative comes a little late. It is, of course, presented on 30 April, thinking that the state of alarm had not yet ended and that the Government could be persuaded or forced to extend the state of alarm or take the initiative with other legislative measures. We are certainly no longer at that time. A response has already been requested and has not been given, in many cases not even the reasoning why the state of alarm was not extended. Obviously, we are already in a different situation and, in your case, when what you are asking for happens, it would certainly not be the right time or time. Beyond all this, I want to make clear the position of my parliamentary group on these Conferences of Presidents. The conferences of presidents are worth little, not to mention for nothing, among other things, by the format they have. As each and every one of them has to speak, in the end it is an isolated discourse each with its own and does not serve to find solutions or reach agreements. What do I tell you if those presidents' conferences are broadcast live on television? It's very good for the incumbent president of the government, but then they don't bring anything. Really, they don't bring anything. The exchange of information, solutions and proposals that can be made in private can work much better. That is what can work and not this system of the Conference of Presidents. They will therefore not count on our vote in favour. We think it's an inappropriate instrument. Furthermore, in the cases of the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre, we believe that there is another added circumstance, which is the first additional provision of the Constitution. For us, what has to prevail is a bilateral relationship between the governments, in this case between the Basque Autonomous Community and the State Government, and not a Conference of Presidents at which matters which do not belong to all can be subsumed and are not going to be clarified or resolved in such a format. So we do not agree either by efficiency or by what we understand from the institutional relationship that derives from the foral fact. We shall therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u76	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u77	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, reading the content of this motion we see that, not by the proponents, but by the government's desire, its content has become clearly out of time. This motion, which we will logically support, proposes that the President urgently convene, in compliance with the Government's own rules, the Conference of Presidents to inform them of the steps it intends to take after the end of the state of alarm so that the communities can have the necessary legal instruments to adopt health protection measures, such as their obligation, to contain the evolution of the pandemic. Well, it has been more than two weeks since the state of alarm ended and the Government has not been able to summon those who it considers responsible for the management of the situation, not even to inform them of that. What has the government done? It presents, just a few days before the state of alarm ends, a real decree-law - another - abusively and disregarding the functions of this Parliament, which also involves blackmail to the Spaniards because it mixes in the same text of this real decree-law very important social measures of protection of vulnerable groups with the regulation of a new remedy of cassation before the Supreme Court, which is, by the way, a legal barbarity and will not solve the problems of autonomy. This initiative should serve and serve to re-emphasize the negligence of the Government by not making the necessary legislative changes that more than one group has asked of it before the state of alarm ended. The frequent calls of these conferences of presidents have been and are an important and necessary instrument of cooperation between the State and autonomy as an element of co-decision and coordination. They have served, and the presidents of self-government have said so, to strengthen these mechanisms between territories that are part of the same country and have the same interests and problems, especially at this time with the autonomous communities that have transferred health competence. The Conference of Presidents has not met for more than seven months, which is an absolute misconception in this situation, in which these coordination mechanisms are more necessary than ever to deal with matters such as vaccination, restrictive measures to be taken after the end of the state of alarm, especially mobility between neighbouring communities or between territories, etc. But, as always, the Government acts without consulting anyone approved a royal decree-law, whose urgency and necessity cannot be argued from the moment when it was already known six months ago that the state of alarm ended on 9 May. Therefore, during this time, the Government should have brought a bill to this House that will provide the autonomous communities with tools to deal with the pandemic and the post-alarmy situation. But he did not do so and preferred to opt for the use and abuse, as is customary, of the royal decree-law in a further demonstration of the contempt that the Government is manifesting for Parliament. It is not because it has not been urged by different groups, including our own, with a proposal for an organic law for the coordination and speeding up of the health system, which we prepared and presented in December and where we proposed, among other things, the empowerment of the functions of the High Health Inspectorate to improve the coordination of health competences and the promotion and speeding up of administrative laws to promote speed and security in judicial control, which we are seeing today as a problem. In this regard, we propose to empower the National High Court as a single body for the judicial ratification of coordinated health measures carried out by the Ministry of Health and an improvement in the parliamentary control of the Government over states of alarm, exception and site by proposing a modification of the regulatory law of these mechanisms. But, as we say, the government has done nothing, except for the approval of this last royal decree-law blackmail, where it mixes barbecues with merinas generating more problems. We maintain, it is true, differences with what the PP calls its plan B, because for us an ordinary law cannot limit fundamental rights, but we do not talk about the plan of the PP, the plan of Citizens or the plan of the PSOE, because they certainly do not have. We will support this initiative because of the importance of the Conference of Presidents and the need for this body to reconvene as a body of cooperation, debate and co-decision between the central Government and self-government at a moment as far as we stand right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A preview. Mrs. Gamarra was talking about law enforcement. Whoever is free from sin throws the first stone. I remind you that in 2013 the new system of financing by law had to be completed. Three years of PP government failed to comply with the law and it was never again known, and the same for the PSOE. He also spoke about the meeting of the Conference of Presidents. For us the concept of governance must not have an empty meaning, because it is - or should be - fundamental in a country that is said to be the most decentralized in the world. That is why I understand that the regular meetings of the President of the Government with the presidents of the autonomous communities could be fruitful meetings if there was institutional loyalty and if there was a true sense of state, but, as I see it, I believe that for the People's Party other things are more important than these. And I do agree that the exit from the state of alarm would probably have been a little more orderly, less confusing and less sense of abandonment if there had been that Conference of Presidents. Unfortunately, decisions have been taken unilaterally, quite the contrary which, for example, has been made in Germany...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Baldoví, your time is up. We're running out of time, just like the president warned us. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceed to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u81	Thank you, President. Before I begin with the subject, I would like to say to the spokesman for UPN, and to some other lost - if any - in the House, that President Aragonès is the democratically elected president of the Parliament of Catalonia and of the people of Catalonia, and has all the right and all the duty to defend his political postulates as he sees fit. [[Applauds]] If every time you come up to this rostrum, all you do is vomit hatred of Catalonia and Catalans... [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Hala!-Rumors]] Yeah, don't get nervous, I haven't told the PP, I'm talking to UPN. I already know it's the same here and there, but let me talk and, if not, I'm going to ask for Mr. President's protection. While they throw up hatred of Catalonia, Catalans and Catalan institutions, those Catalan constitutionalist politicians and even federalist politicians are getting worse and worse. But you don't come up here to solve problems, you don't come up to solve a problem in Catalonia, or a problem in the Spanish state. Go up to try to scratch four short-term vows, but yourself. In any case, from here the Democratic Party is going to ask President Aragonès to defend his political postulates, because he is the legitimate president elected by the Parliament of Catalonia. Having said that, we are going to the Conference of Presidents. It is somewhat strange that the People's Parliamentary Group calls for the Conference of Presidents to be convened when it has been years without the Conference of Presidents and nothing has happened either, the Spanish State has not fallen. I believe that some other spokesman has said this; the Conference of Presidents can serve to get well, to exchange experiences, but be honest with each other, with the Conference of Presidents the political problems are not solved. The problem that had been created at the end of the state of alarm would also have been created even if the Conference of Presidents had met, because when it met almost every week or every two weeks it was useless and the People's Party itself criticized it as a marketing operation by the President of the Government. We are therefore not going to support this initiative and we are going to vote against it. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Pita Cárdenes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u83	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most singular politicians who has stepped on this court, Don Joaquín Costa, in a famous fragment of one of his speeches, said: 'I do not know if for this country our so-called prostrate is already a remedy; I do not know if we have fallen so deep that there is not enough force to lift us up'. Hard, hard, but I think something was right about Don Joaquin. I at least feel that discomfort expressed by those words every time that, as on this occasion, the PP tries - and does again and again - to subject the Legislative Power to its dark interests. Everything is used in that perpetual election campaign in which they seem to be immersed in search of the lost Government, even if they have to go beyond the common interests of our people and use, in an ignominious way, issues such as the health crisis in which we are immersed. Today we have a non-legislative proposal, Mrs Gamarra, which is absolutely out of time and, in the spiral of the whole thing, it is now time for the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. Let's make a memory. Since you were called the People's Alliance, from the starters of the transition, you have wanted to turn the debates of autonomous presidents into a place to sow weeds and generate a climate of chaos in which you also unfold. In 1987, in the Senate, you too, in the opposition, took advantage of the dialogue between territories to burst the debate, demanding the extension of the powers of those autonomys that had had to conform, in fact, with a statute that went through the slow path. All right, but that position would be no more than pure posture on your part, because three years later, with Aznar at the head of the government, you would do exactly the opposite. That Government would also be the main instigator of an inequity that still prevails in the system of autonomous financing and its heirs - many of whom are now under trial and in prison - will lay the foundations for the policy of confrontation between territories and despicableness with which it was actually received the creation in 2004 of that Conference of Autonomous Presidents; Conference of Presidents who, by the way, with Rajoy in the Moncloa, only called you twice and reluctantly, even questioning the usefulness that it could have. That you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, now claim this conference from a position as if it were your initiative, is another example, let me say, of your little shame. [[Rumors]] I don't know what people will feel here from other communities, from the Valencià Country, from Extremadura, from Andalusia, but to me, as a canary, the feeling that I'm interested in their rudder strokes is of pure rejection. Who do you want to cheat on? Do they think it is not clear that the only objective they pursue with this GNP is to activate a new forum from which to sustain this campaign of harassment and overthrow a coalition government? That is why they are interested in convening a new Conference of Presidents, just for that. You want to turn one of the few bilateral communication bodies that our country owns from countries into another platform for the spread of its bubbles and disqualifications. All this by twisting the laws and using as a weapon throws away the most complex health emergency situation that a democratic government has had to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is well enough to oppose total disloyalty and lack of democratic ethics. Until the other day, you said that there were sufficient legal mechanisms to deal with the situation from the autonomous communities, and now, that we are in the scenario that you have created, you are going to change your mind. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - let me tell you - do not eat or let eat. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, cling to power in some autonomous communities with the support of hooligans and fanatics who want to put an end to the autonomy so that Spain can return to being one's black and white Spain, big and free. [[Rumors]] That is why you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party - and do not lose your nerves - have no legitimacy to stand up now as spokespersons for autonomous demands. Good afternoon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u84	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sáez Alonso-Muñumer has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party is presenting us with a non-legislative proposal concerning the urgent convening of the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. From his reading, we have a number of topics. The first, about the state of alarm. Let us remember that we are talking about a state of alarm of six months, whose approval the People's Party facilitated with its abstention; we are talking about a state of abusive alarm and questionable legality; we are talking about a state of alarm that has restricted the freedoms of the Spaniards. In view of this, last November, the VOX Parliamentary Group presented unconstitutionality and amparo; remedies based on the evidence that the control that the Constitution reserves to Congress is absolutely distorted by a six-month extension, during which the executive and autonomous governments are vested with broad powers to restrict the constitutional rights of citizens. Secondly, on the Conference of Autonomous Presidents. Article 14 of Royal Decree 956/2020 speaks of a four-month period mentioned by Mrs Gamarra. It draws attention that the PP records this GNP on 30 April, nine days before the end of the state of alarm; it seems that it is on 30 April when it has realized that the four-month period had ended; it was on 9 May. We are therefore in the face of a toast to the sun and the confirmation that the People's Party is complicit in the situation of confusion that we have experienced during this period. Let us remember that in 2020 seventeen conferences were held, fourteen of them extraordinary by COVID-19 and, in the light of this GNP, it seems that none of the legal instruments for the protection of the health of citizens, as reflected in this request, in this GNP, have been discussed. The results of these conferences from a health and economic point of view, I believe, are clear. In short, we talked about conferences that some convene many times but with poor results and others - case of the PP during the years 2013 to 2016 - neither convened them. It seems that the high levels of unemployment and the extraordinary increase in public debt from 86.3% to 99.2% of GDP were not sufficient grounds for this call. Thirdly, on the role of the Autonomous Communities. A few days ago and in the face of the end of the state of alarm on 9 May, the PP requested that the autonomous communities be able to restrict fundamental freedoms. It is the autonomous communities governed by the PP that are putting pressure on the Government to restrict freedoms. All this reflects the inconsistency of the People's Party. First, for having different approaches in each autonomous community. Secondly, when it comes to defending our rights and our freedom. What is certain is that their request will result in a multiplication of existing legislation, an increase in the insolidity and inequality of the Spaniards and a further step in the competitive voracity of the autonomous communities that tend to become ministates. Fourthly, on measures taken by the autonomous communities to protect the health of the citizens of their territory - I repeat - of the citizens of their territory. What does that mean? One more step towards the realms of taifas. Decades walking along the path of inequality in the face of the docility of many autonomous communities has caused that in a community such as Castile and León, with a population density of 25 inhabitants per square kilometre - the community with the lowest population density in Spain - and an ageing ratio of 197.06 %, - third place in Spain - the per capita health expenditure amounts to 1661 euros, while in the Basque Country, with 303 inhabitants per square kilometre and a ratio of 150.49 %, the per capita health expenditure amounts to 1873 euros. VOX will always defend those measures and reforms that, within the existing legal order, contribute to the strength and efficiency of the State, to the cohesion of the nation and to the equal rights and freedom of the Spanish. VOX opposes frontally and without nuances to all... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u86	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Tizón Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u87	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As you well know, the state of alarm has not been constant. The low incidence allowed its end last summer and today is the way forward to maintain a balance between the activities of our society and the necessary prudence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you want the state of alarm or do you not want it? First they voted against and now it's all chaos. Be clear, ladies and gentlemen, be clear. [[Applauds]] Once again, you're late. They are late because the autonomous communities are not unprotected. Look, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System has been set up as a genuine instrument of co-governance, essential in the adoption and follow-up of measures for the control of the virus; there have been more than ninety meetings since the beginning of the pandemic. You can see that they seem few, as few will seem to them the unprecedented celebration of the conferences of presidents. I'll take a look at it: seventeen meetings in the last year versus two you've held in eight years. Do you see the difference? No doubt it's you guys from the counseling school I sell that I don't have. [[Applauds]] You urge this Government to take action on the basis of an abrogated rule that appears to be unknown. Article 14 of Royal Decree 956/2020, to which they refer, established the mechanism for proposing the early lifting of the state of alarm, a mechanism which was not used either by autonomous presidents or by parliamentary groups, including yours, ladies and gentlemen. A precept that could not be more clear: there is no obligation to convene such a conference, but foresight that when the inter-territorial council agreed on the origin of the lifting of the state of alarm after four months of the approval of the extension it could request the conference such lifting. I see that in reading comprehension they also fail, ladies and gentlemen. There are certainly many tools we have on the table to stop this pandemic in a co-governance framework. The priority: prevent and vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate, which you have called demeanor. I give you two keys: we are at the head of the European Union in vaccination of the elderly and almost half of the population has at least the first dose. Don't be mistaken, it's pointless the cut of 2000 jobs in primary care that you want to carry out in Madrid. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] But there are more tools, ladies and gentlemen, and it is the extensive legal acquis to take action, since the General Law on Public Health; Law 2/2021, on urgent measures of prevention, containment and coordination; the Royal Decree-Law on urgent measures of a health, social and jurisdictional nature, or coordinated response actions. You have voted against legal coverage that allows for broader action by the autonomous communities. There is no state of chaos. The Supreme Court itself considers that communities may prescribe specific restrictions on movement under current legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the only state of chaos is in which you live permanently, full of contradictions and inconsistencies. Neither dictatorship nor debauchery before, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party; it is called responsibility at all levels. I can assure you that even if it is empty of content for you, co-governance has come to stay, a cooperation to strengthen the public, ladies and gentlemen. Co-governance is neither exhausted nor limited to the convening of a specific cooperation body, it is precise of the frequent use of all of them and this Government has not only convened, with an unusual periodicity, the Conference of Presidents and the inter-territorial council, but also the whole of the cooperation bodies provided for in the Spanish legal system. Albert Camus said that 'in politics it is the means that must justify the end'. We have the means, our autonomous communities have them and the end will come and, ladies and gentlemen, it will be that of true freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u88	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tizón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - THE SOCIALIST PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE IMPULSION OF DEVELOPMENT AND THE ADOPTION OF DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGIES BASED ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND ON THEIR CONFIDENCE. [[File number 162/000631]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u89	We continue with the Socialist Parliamentary Group's non-legislative proposal on the impetus to the development and adoption of disruptive technologies based on artificial intelligence and those aimed at increasing the reliability of artificial intelligence. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Marra Dominguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ingenuity and innovation have driven the advancement of societies throughout history. With them, artificial intelligence has been identified worldwide as one of the technologies with the greatest projection and impact in all areas of activity; a disruptive technology that is called to revolutionize radically the world in which we live. In fact, it is already part of our present, with an impact on daily activities: Internet search engines, mobile applications, virtual voice assistants, e-commerce recommendations, facial and voice recognition systems, Internet of Things applications, robotics, autonomous cars or even an entire intelligent city. From a technological, economic, environmental or social point of view, its transformation potential is enormous due to its large cross-sectoral penetration: in industry, health, transport, security, education, environment, culture, trade... Nothing escapes, ladies and gentlemen, from artificial intelligence. In short, because of its high impact, rapid growth and contribution to improving efficiency and competitiveness. The data backs it up. In 2018, artificial intelligence contributed €1760 million to global GDP. This figure is already high enough to consider artificial intelligence as essential in economic planning, although it is estimated that by 2030 its contribution to world GDP will be 14%, more than EUR 14 trillion each year. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot let this opportunity slip away. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, together with the Government of Spain, wants to lead the development and integration of artificial intelligence into the productive fabric, the economy and society. We want to deploy the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy designed by the Government, with €600 million up to 2023, to vertebrate the actions of different administrations and provide a framework of reference and momentum for the public and private sectors. We face enormous challenges at an exceptional time in our society, and it is at that same juncture that the urgency of abandoning production models based on the precariousness, temporality and cuts of the governments of the People's Party is demonstrated, and the need to transform our development model and our way of life, integrating two essential twin transitions such as the digital and ecological transition. In this digital transition, artificial intelligence is not only an area of scientific and technological research that we must encourage with scientific and innovative excellence, but it is an economy and industrial development. It is about transforming our productive model and social improvement to make it more efficient, competitive and resilient in the face of future crises, to encourage skilled employment and to attract talent. We want this digital transformation to create opportunities for our young people, because, unlike what the governments of the People's Party did, expelling thousands of young people from the labour market and our country, we want opportunities for them to develop their training, their talent, their project due in Spain, because they are precisely the central pillar for building a better country. The Socialist Group is presenting this GNP for approval in this House. With it we want to promote, based on the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, the development and adoption of artificial intelligence in all economic activity, both in the public and private sectors, and its integration into value chains, as the Spanish Government has already done. We want to support the adoption of new technologies for the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises; to strengthen the incorporation and use of artificial intelligence in the public administration; to enhance investment, scientific research, technological development and innovation in artificial intelligence; to promote digital skills, especially in artificial intelligence; to promote intensification and learning related to the digitisation and use of new technologies linked to artificial intelligence; to promote the development of data platforms and technological infrastructures to support artificial intelligence; and, ladies and gentlemen, to work in line with the European Union to have an appropriate ethical and regulatory framework for artificial intelligence, ensuring the privacy of citizens in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the social and ethical fields are increasingly essential when talking about artificial intelligence. We have a responsibility to teach algorithms that take into account data privacy, that guarantee the fairness of decisions, that are auditable, transparent, and energy-friendly. We have a responsibility to respond to the many challenges that will undoubtedly bring these new technologies and that will require an interdisciplinary perspective. It is about incorporating aspects ranging from the rights of citizens into the development and exploitation of large databases, such as the gender perspective to close technological gaps, in all areas: in the formative, productive, scientific, technological, in the equalization of access, regardless of the place of territory where one lives, in order to face the demographic challenge in our country. The aim is to advance the ecological transition, to improve the digital capabilities of companies and workers, to strengthen the digital skills of the population as a whole, or to enhance the use of Spanish in this technology. We have the challenge of closing gaps in inequality and ensuring that the benefit of technology reaches all citizens. Therefore, this non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group advances in the direction of the priorities of the Government of Spain, as set out in the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, in which the Digital Spain Agenda 2025 is framed, which will mobilise €70 billion in public-private investment for the complete digital transformation of our country. It is a first stage, in which much remains to be done. The ultimate goal is to move forward with a country project, the country project we want to build for the next few years, because, ladies and gentlemen, if we look to the future this will undoubtedly be more digital and ecological. It opens up an extreme opportunity to transform our economy and society and will determine our future, our progress and the social well-being of future generations. It's over, President. It's time to join forces... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u91	It must be over now, I'm sorry, Your Honor. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Borrás Pabón spoke by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking here today about the impulse and development of artificial intelligence in our country with a Socialist Party GNP in which, surprisingly, I do not see them talking about the development of artificial intelligence with a gender perspective, or about parity in the development of male robots or female robots, but, finally, ladies and gentlemen, what is striking in this non-law proposal is that they talk about promoting artificial intelligence while they go along with their totalitarian Celá Law on Science and Mathematics by declaring them optional. Don't you see the absurd incoherence of this, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? Indoctrinate our young people by making them memorize up to fifty different sexual orientations, or talk to them about how terrible heteropatriarchy is, they do care a lot, but explain to the new generations the importance of mathematics, science, big data, 5G and everything that is going to revolutionize the reality in which they will live and will have to develop our young people in the future, that's what they're going to talk about, right? [[Applauds]] We are still waiting for an educational offer from this Government to provide leading and specific science and technology curricula, as our parliamentary group has already promoted in various NLPs and also with the amendment to this initiative. On the other hand, you write, and I quote literally, in your own GNP, about reliable, inclusive and sustainable artificial intelligence, but yet you are obviating the huge carbon footprint that this generates, because artificial intelligence, if you do not know it, requires the processing of huge amounts of big data and, with it, a continued and high electricity consumption. How do they combine this with their climate objectives, with the climate objectives imposed by the European Union and with their suicide strategy of shutting down nuclear power plants? Because, I don't know if they knew that, for every nuclear power plant we shut down, we replace it primarily with fossil fuels and thus increase carbon emissions even further. In short, what is important here, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, is to lay the foundations for a legal framework that will allow our country's innovation, administrative agility and competitiveness while safeguarding data protection, security and the rights of all Spaniards. Nor is it surprising to see in this GNP how they talk about removing administrative bottlenecks or digitising SMEs, precisely this government, the same government that produces the greatest expenditure in history on advisors and ministers, which has caused 99% of the companies destroyed during the pandemic to be SMEs and, moreover, to be unable to run the SEPE web without collapsing. And are you, gentlemen of the government, going to set up to develop the appropriate legislative framework to boost the new disruptive technologies in this country? Because, on the other hand, the automation of repetitive tasks that can be performed with artificial intelligence will cause millions of Spaniards to lose their jobs. Beyond the holders of their National Artificial Intelligence Strategy who have published, do they have any clear contingency or training plans that foresee this situation to prevent millions of Spaniards from going to unemployment? What is surprising, in any case, is that at this point in Spain only 7% of SMEs have applied artificial intelligence in their processes, compared to 18% of large companies, and that this bad data, the second vice president of the government, qualifies them as good news, because, in her own words, we have the potential to keep moving forward. This is the same as saying that the unemployment rate in Spain, which was almost 16% in the first quarter of 2021, is also good news, ladies and gentlemen, because there are more Spaniards in unemployment and therefore more likely to find a job. In short, since VOX we consider it essential to develop a technological ecosystem that drives the development of artificial intelligence from its roots, which is nothing other than quality public and private training, effective incentives in business innovation and a legislative framework that is attractive enough so that we do not continue to suffer the brain drain and the corporate flight from our country. We must have a government that knows what 5G policy is going to be adopted, understands how it affects our near future and develops a truly disruptive strategy that is not based on simply releasing frequencies and letting operators deploy their infrastructure. I'm done, Mr. President, in short...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Borrás, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the stand.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Pedreño Molina has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u94	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Today the Socialist Group presents a non-law proposal basically for two things, to boost artificial intelligence and to regulate the ethics of algorithms based on artificial intelligence. Of this second, nothing at all. They are talking about regulating a new technology and controlling the possible damage caused by artificial intelligence, but, of course, Mr Socialist Group, there is nothing, absolutely nothing, in this government proposal. Here I confess that we were waiting for a step ahead of the government, something that no one has yet done in Europe and that you did, but it was to be hoped that no mention would be made of it. And on the promotion of artificial intelligence, for look what I tell you, they bring proposals that are already reflected in the plans of the Government and, moreover, they have no decency to indicate it expressly. This, again, is a hairdo while it's back to being a doll, and it's late in the day, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party. Who wrote you this non-law proposal? What is more, how have they been persuaded to present it here at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies? What is the purpose of this bill that you bring? You bring here no more or less than the plans of the government. And I say that if those plans are already going to be made, why do they bring this proposal here, and if they are not going to be made, it is a deception to all the Spaniards. Do not, of course, make the People's Parliamentary Group complicit in this deception with our vote. This House is not for these things, it is not for us to adopt their measures one by one, because what they should have done is that the Government would have had us, the parliamentary groups, and of course the People's Group, to draw up these plans, and we have no news of this. Digital Competition Plan, SME Digitization Plan, Public Administration Digitization Plan, National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, Digital Agenda Plan, in short, a lot of plans, but what has been done so far? Nothing at all. Well, one thing, Radar COVID, that application that took a long time to develop, with security flaws detected by the National Cryptological Center and a non-existent campaign of use that ultimately made it an absolutely unserviceable application and on which the Secretary of State said that other countries had spent more. Well, spend more, but what you can't do is a half-way thing. As this proposal focuses on artificial intelligence, I will tell you what is the chronology of how this government is managing artificial intelligence in our country. An ad hoc Secretariat of State for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence is created for this, a lost Secretariat of State; absolute suspension for this Secretariat of State. Then they set up an artificial intelligence advisory council. Then, a year later, a National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, of course without results after year and a half. And why? Because there has been an absolute horror of almost twenty-five high-ranking officials of this Secretariat of State who were responsible for implementing the digitization of the country and, of course, plans for artificial intelligence. And finally, they recently created a Directorate-General for Digitization and Artificial Intelligence, which we don't even know what it's for. However, they come here and bring us a non-law proposal as if this government no longer had the resources and the budget to do so, with the money that is costing us all the Spaniards. I'll tell you what. The European Union produced in February a white paper, recommendations for artificial intelligence, and now, recently, it has announced the creation of a specific regulation to boost and prevent the risks of artificial intelligence. And I, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, will give you some advice. Tell the government not to do anything, not to mess with it, not to mess with it, because, moreover, when this regulation of the European Union is finished it will be when the People's Party rules in Spain, and then don't worry because we are already in the process of completing this legislation. That is why we in the People's Parliamentary Group have tabled a single amendment calling on the Government of Spain to implement, as a matter of urgency, the measures laid down in the plans which have been announced by the hammer, those for digitisation and those which include artificial intelligence. Do not leave these plans in the drawers of the ministry, put the batteries, gentlemen of the Socialist Group, tell the government to put the batteries too because here, in Spain, we are on the absolutely lost course in the field of digitisation, and let us not say artificial intelligence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u95	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. This parliamentary initiative presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group urges the Government to push forward a series of measures relating to the cluster of technologies covered in what has been called artificial intelligence. We are faced with a matter which, as Mrs Marra Domínguez pointed out in her speech, requires the greatest interest and a continuous effort to ensure that the great technological advances, together with access to the huge databases, allow Spain to rely on, deploy with agility and take advantage of artificial intelligence as a great tool for transforming society to improve the quality of life of people. However, in Spain we are already very late in our incorporation into the major global socio-economic changes and we have now arrived dragged by the European Union's urgency to favour the major areas of activity that have been opened up and so that the citizens of the Community do not remain relegated to a race in which the great world powers are being turned. We are, in any case, faced with challenges that entail the need to give answers that also include variants and derived from enormous complexity, including morals and ethics, those related to fundamental rights, the management of personal data, those of a normative nature and socio-economic ones, with a high priority, forgotten by this government of unemployment and ruin, which is work, without forgetting also the risks of exclusion that result from the loss of employment with the methodologies of automation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very little flattered by the Government, and in fact it will not endorse with my vote this pyrotechnic initiative which seeks to cover inefficiency and abstract politics, but it should be noted that it was the creation fifteen months ago of a new Secretariat of State for Digitisation and Artificial Intelligence. However, the current balance sheet does not allow for an approval in this area, because the Government has failed to meet the great demands of this set of challenges. It should be noted in his disclaimer that it has been a coincident stage with the VOCID-19 pandemic, but in this period there have been a few scares in the department - and the spokesman of the People's Group now pointed out - that have forced to make adjustments and readjustments that have had nothing to do with the coronavirus. All this has meant a great waste of public resources and time, even more so when, after the censorship motion of 2018, the new government sent the paper that a group of experts had already prepared on behalf of the government of Mariano Rajoy to have in Spain a strategy on artificial intelligence and big data, in which a group of nine ministries had also been set up. It took two years, two!, to establish an advisory council as an advisory body for analysis, advice and support to the Government in the field of artificial intelligence. There are autonomous communities which, with their limitations, are being implemented much more eagerly than the Government itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon the Congress is intended to try to stimulate our Executive in technological matters that fail at the base, since in Spain of 2021, although it sounds hard to say, there is still a digital gap that affects many territories that have not reached connectivity, that ignores that many small and medium-sized enterprises survive hard and do not receive support to integrate into digitalisation, and also affects people, since around 40% of Spaniards have significant digital deficiencies in 2021. It is noteworthy that the current national strategy has relegated, or better said marginalized, the Spanish Strategy of R & D+i in Artificial Intelligence that had been presented in March 2019 by the then Minister of Science, Innovation and Universities, Pedro Duque, notoriously absent from another of the propaganda acts held in Moncloa by the President of the Government last December to present the national strategy of artificial intelligence covered by three ministers, but -what a coincidence!- with the absence of Science and Innovation. In short, in an inefficient liturgy that is repeated in the General Courts, this initiative of the Socialist Group, the majority of the House, remains half because it is a proposition with eight very generalistic points, very unambitious, for the Government to do what it has already announced it will do but that the state secretary of the branch did not find time to explain it until a couple of months ago. In view of the inadequacy of the measures proposed, I shall abstain in the vote, unless a compromise text is drawn up containing the contributions of other groups. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u97	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u98	Thank you, President. Pick it up on. Mrs Ángeles Marra, I know that you have brought here a GNP with good intentions and that you have tried to defend it in the best possible way, and I thank you, but it is that, as other groups have already said, the GNP barely speaks of artificial intelligence and digitisation, it only speaks generically of certain measures. Today I wonder what GNP is for, because I really think it is a GNP for marketing government policy, because they do not propose anything at all, there are no concrete measures, they use terms such as pushing and strengthening, but of what the government already has in its portfolio. It is a generic GNP, and it is good as an instrument of impetus for the political action of the Government, it is not wrong to encourage the institutions, but we believe that it does not seem right to do so with generic contributions. They talk about working with the European Union on artificial intelligence, and it is logical because it is Europe that is going to regulate or enforce strict international standards on artificial intelligence, which Spain will have to comply with as a member of the European Union. We are told that we support a GNP to ultimately endorse the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, which in turn is contained in component 16, and the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but at no time has it been consulted or agreed with the other political groups, at least not with the Basque Nationalist Party, or with the rest of the administrations. Moreover, the Government launched a series of expressions of interest to identify the mechanisms of artificial intelligence throughout the value chain and today we do not know the conclusions and whether they are going to adopt any project or mechanism resulting from these manifestations of interest, but they also claim to be worth it here today. The same happens if we talk about digitization, which is already in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but here the groups do not know how it will be implemented, when, how and where, as we have been saying in many commissions. In short, they have not counted on the groups or the rest of the administrations to design and implement the measures of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, but they do ask us to give a yes to strengthen, to boost those measures that appear today in the plan around artificial intelligence and digitization, in which we have been unable to contribute anything. You have said this, it is a country plan, but if it were, it would be an informed and consensual plan, and the truth is that it is a plan of your Government, which has been consulted or agreed and which we have been informed of for the first time, and I am sorry to say so, by the press, although it is true that we have been informed of certain aspects in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It is a plan that my political group today does not see clearly, and we will certainly have to abstain in this non-legislative proposal very much to our regret, because we also agree that artificial intelligence and digitisation must be promoted; in fact, we already have a strategic plan in Euskadi in this regard. I recommend something to you: stop strengthening and move on to action because we are in June and you should start to worry about the implementation of that plan; a plan with good intentions, as I say, in which I personally would like to believe, but it is sometimes difficult for me, especially as a plan to transform the economy, a transformation that can hardly be achieved if you do not have all the actors involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u99	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u100	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Sánchez' dream comes true this afternoon here in this House. With this initiative, the future, that 2050, is here today, and we talk about artificial intelligence and we live what electricity meant for humanity in the 19th century. We are in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution, as your honor, the spokesman for the PSOE, has said, and from Citizens we want to say that we have always defended in any forum, in any public act, the need for a national strategy of artificial intelligence, a strategy that is elaborated within the framework that the European Union has given, which is in which we can trust. In this regard, Madam Spokesman, you can count on us to help make Spain one of the leading nations in the development of the implementation of artificial intelligence. Having said that, I would like to point out a few points that seem to us to be key and on which we believe we must work and work in the coming years. The first key point is that of the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy itself, which speaks of the territorial divergence with regard to Digital Innovation Hubs and human resources employed in science and technology. We urgently need to close that gap so that artificial intelligence does not leave behind part of the population, because Spain needs an intelligent and rationally distributed investment throughout our territory. The second key point is in our preparation to be able to implement artificial intelligence in the public administration. It is true that we have some advantages in terms of infrastructure, data availability and the shared vision of the European Union, but it is also true that we have our problems with human capital, the low capacity for innovation and the limited adaptability and the large size of the sector, and the solution to this, ladies and gentlemen, is to invest in education and in training and adaptation policies. And precisely to the thread of this second key point goes the third, and is that Spain suffers the absence of startups known as unicorns. From the public authorities we must encourage public-private collaboration to create an environment that is beneficial for the germination and growth of new companies, of new technological startups, because without this our country will be kept in line in the wagon of economic development. As you will see, Madam Spokesperson, Mrs Ángeles Marra, we follow this matter very closely, we are concerned. We know that you presented the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy on December 2, 2020, that you have included in component 16 of the plan sent to Brussels the component of the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy, and today we are again faced with what is called an automobile that leads me to ask you if you do not trust yourself and need the House to back you up, because if you have the strategy presented in December, component 16 sent to Brussels and now you are presenting this initiative that comes to say nothing else that we need to implement the Artificial Intelligence Strategy, listen, so do it. Or do you not trust the government? I'm asking. As you can see, I am asking you to get to work, but really, and to lead this momentum of new technologies, especially those based on artificial intelligence, and to do so from dialogue and consensus, because neither the strategy presented in December nor component 16 of the plan sent to Brussels has the dialogue, support and consensus of this House, and you want us to vote and approve this initiative here to cover our backs. Having said that, let us all make a reliable plan of artificial ethical intelligence that will help to reduce social and economic, demographic, and all kinds of gaps, and let us make this strategy not stay on wet paper and serve to build a better Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u101	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u102	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ángeles Marra, we are not going to oppose this initiative, but there are some considerations that have already been made. This is an initiative in which Congress urges the Government to consider eight aspects. In fact, of these eight aspects, if I remember correctly, four refer to encouraging, one to promote, one to work, the seventh to favour and the last to promote. No budgetary commitment, no commitment in terms of deadlines. Therefore, as a statement, as good intentions is fine, but it remains a little short. In this area - I have also told some other spokesman - for example, for not putting other territories, the Generalitat de Catalunya has been working for a long time with a digitisation strategy, with a strategy in relation to artificial intelligence and, in some respects, with plans much more ambitious than those that are being proposed at this time. Therefore, if you want to do this without taking into account the work that other administrations are doing, I think the proposal is very poor. It is clear that this proposal to promote, work, etc., etc. comes from one of the groups which supports the Government, and I have already told it on more than one occasion in the Commission, and here in plenary it will be fine, it will consume the quota, but it does not have a concrete wording. I would have liked it to have been budgeted, time-bound. You will tell me: man, but this we already have in some document, in component 16. Then what does it take? In any case, we don't have any pain in our clothes. We will try to support these initiatives around digitization and artificial intelligence, but keep in mind that work is being done...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u103	Mr. Bel, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u104	...and he's working well. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u105	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u106	Thank you. As you know, artificial intelligence is built from learning by repetition of patterns and data analysis, so that machines are increasingly intelligent and humans more predictable. If we pass this PSOE NLP through the algorithm, the machine would already be proposing a series of questions: how are they going to make compatible their National Artificial Intelligence Strategy with plans and projects already under development in Catalonia, taking into account that some of the measures they want to push are already being implemented in the Catalan Administration? How will they promote the development of artificial intelligence in the public administration? With what funds? With the Next Generation? Will they open lines of financing to those public administrations with artificial intelligence projects? With what instruments will investment in R & D+i be boosted? Will access be transparent and based on competitive criteria and excellence? They also propose - and I quote - to have an ethical and regulatory framework guaranteeing the privacy of citizens in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This is where the algorithm will alert those previous ethical patterns to remind us that with its decree of the 155 digital invaded competences of the Generalitat of Catalonia, they violate the Statute of Catalonia and even the Constitution, according to the Council of State Guarantees Porno to meet the requirements of normative quality that would have to observe a law that could produce interference in the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms; a law that prohibited the free movement of data provided by the European Parliament, which enabled the Government to close websites and social networks in case of public disorders - a manifestation is it? - and that, in essence, it intended to end the Catalan digital republic, which did not exist and that they are increasingly concerned, perhaps up to 52%. They say that when you know the answers, it's best to change the questions, but, like the algorithm, we'll keep trying.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u107	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a very particular historical moment, a critical moment, a crossroads that will determine the future of the next generations. Today we talk about artificial intelligence, with what happens a little as when we talk about youth, that we think it is the future when, in reality, it is the present. Artificial intelligence is a very broad concept, which basically refers to the ability of a digital computer or computer-controlled robot to perform tasks commonly associated with intelligent beings and this has implications in many areas. From United We think that for our country artificial intelligence is a great opportunity to transform the productive model and achieve one that is sustainable and that generates added value, stable employment and quality. We have always been committed to turning science and R & D+i into a cornerstone of our economy. One of the socio-economic problems we face at the global level is the growing widening of inequalities, between countries, in countries or even transnational inequalities. These dynamics, which have developed over the last decades, are reflected in different areas, such as the territorial area - mainly between urban and rural areas - and in the socio-economic sphere, depending on the level of income and wealth, gender and also at the generational level. In addition, we also witness the urgency of dealing with the climate emergency arising from the unsustainability of our current patterns of production, distribution and consumption. Faced with this situation and the technological pessimism of the far right, we believe that technological development can act as a lever for inclusion and social and territorial cohesion, preventing the inequalities and gaps that persist today from being perpetuated and widened. Many of the advantages offered by artificial intelligence have already been mentioned, and it may be useful to point out some of the risks involved. A couple of examples. The first has to do with what Yolanda Díaz has called algorithmic punishment towards the workers. It should be recalled that the Ministry of Labour has already taken a first step in regulating artificial intelligence in the workplace. The 'Rider Law' includes a pioneering change in the status of workers, whereby digital platforms, not only for distribution, are obliged to report on the mathematical or algorithmic formula that affects the employment relationship. In the case of the riders, the distributors, this is key because these formulas decide that one order falls on one and not on another in a certain time band. The second, which more than a risk can be understood as a real threat, is the fact that artificial intelligence is a dual-use technology. This means that it has a civil applicability but also a military applicability, and of this the GNP does not speak, but everything indicates that in the coming years artificial intelligence will penetrate massively into the military sphere. The great powers - the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel - are already developing weapons that can trace, identify and attack targets without human control. Ladies and gentlemen, how would you feel about the decision to kill a machine? The moral and legal implications of this issue require an international debate that goes beyond the borders of the European Union. On many occasions, technological development is conceived as a dynamic that is an end in itself, a process that also follows its own course and is disconnected from the realm of governance, deliberation and public control. This cannot be, ladies and gentlemen. Discussions cannot take place within large companies because they must take place in the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, there is a plan from the European Commission that is not named in the GNP, but has to be one of the reference frameworks. Three elements of this plan would be highlighted: the establishment of a framework for governance and coordination, i.e. in a State like ours, local and autonomous governments must be involved; secure databases that comply with existing regulations are needed; and the other necessary step is strong and secure infrastructure. We need to adapt the institutional architecture to meet this challenge and perhaps a public artificial intelligence observatory involving all administrations would be needed. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Faced with this scenario, the objective of any State must be to achieve the development of a safe artificial intelligence for the benefit of people. We shall vote in favour. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u109	Thank you very much. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Dominguez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u110	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u111	They're not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u112	We then move on to the motion following urgent questioning by the Joint Parliamentary Group (Mr. Botran Pahissa) concerning the Government's proposals for the resolution of the political conflict in Catalonia with the Spanish State and on the progress of the dialogue table. Mr Botran Pashissa has the floor for the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u113	Thank you, President. As the motion began to raise, the political conflict in Catalonia is far from being resolved, mainly because of the lack of political will of the Spanish State's powers. In this year and a half of the new Government, even steps have been taken, and we have been pointing this out in a number of speeches, especially because of the attitude of the Office of the Prosecutor, which has not changed, but has continued to judicialize politics. On the other hand, no firm steps have been taken in things that were in the hands of the Government, such as the repeal of the sedition offence. It has been repeatedly requested by prestigious NGOs such as Amnesty International, as well as nine parties present in this House. Moreover, they have been asked to do so even outside the independence context, bearing in mind that the crime of sedition is framed in a conservative ideology, which understands that public space is not a space of conflict; it would be a crime similar to authoritarian systems, not guaranteed and democratic societies. Only pardons seem to be kept on the table, although they are the most arbitrary option. The nine political prisoners would probably remain inside - we don't know - but the exiles and many other people would remain outside. It is estimated that some 3,200 people have been retaliated in the independence process. In addition, the delay in these pardons shows us the opportunistic use that the Government makes, linking itself to the Catalan and Spanish political situation. As a way out of the situation, however, we propose amnesty, which differs from pardon because of its parliamentary character, which is why a proposal for a law was presented. However, the Bureau of Congress has exercised a wall, as it does so so many other times, and it has not left that bill alone to prosper. Moreover, today this motion had two points, one of which made explicit reference to this proposal for a law and has not passed either, hiding in the judgment of the lawyers, very questionable to our understanding. Because we need to clarify the constitutionality of amnesty, which is the argument they use from VOX to the PSOE to reject even the debate: the Constitution does not prohibit amnesty. It does not appear in the joint, but neither does the individual pardon, and well used. What prohibits is the general pardon, but if it had been intended to prohibit amnesty, it would have been specified. It should be thought that at the time the Constitution was drafted, in 1977-1978, both had been given. King John Charles promulgated a general pardon and a Amnesty Law was also made. However, what is contained in the Constitution as the prerogative of the forbidden king is the general pardon, saying nothing of amnesty. And one thing is amnesty and another is the general pardon; one thing is the right of grace of one king and another is a parliamentary initiative, of the Legislature, to regulate in criminal matters. There is even jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, as quoted in the amnesty law itself that we present, on the constitutionality of amnesty. I would add that amnesty exists in most European constitutions and that, moreover, if they really believe in the separation of powers which is normally one of their arguments, amnesty exercises as a mechanism of control between these powers of the State, it is a mechanism of the Legislature to curb certain repressive excesses of the rest of the apparatuses of the State. If you do not contemplate such mechanisms, you do not call it democracy then call it the government of the judges, who are precisely the sector, within the powers of the State, more conservative, more monarchical and more nationalist Spanish. Just as they do with amnesty, they do with our right to self-determination, they also deny it by saying that it does not belong to us. But in an economic and political situation similar to ours, which is where Scotland is located, a referendum has already been held in 2014 and now that it has regained independence by 50.1%, a referendum of independence will be re-opened and a draft law already exists. Independence has also won again in Catalonia, this time with 52% of the votes and polls continue to point out that around 80% supports the referendum as a way out and even is against the use of repression. I must admit that there is a fundamental difference between Scotland and Catalonia. Scotland and England were united through a treaty in 1707 that was endorsed by the two parliaments and thus the United Kingdom was born. At the same time, however, Aragón and the Catalan countries were overturned by the force of war and the occupation of the Bourbon armies by their parliaments and their laws. Mr.Iceta said in the interpellation that he liked the shield of Spain because he collected the different kingdoms. However, it must be remembered that when the shield was added to this shield the shield that exists in the center, that is the weapons of the Bourbons, what reminds us is that this was not a union, but a submission for the right of conquest, and that this mentality of the right of conquest continues to weigh on the strongest of the nationalisms present in this society, which is Spanish nationalism, very present in the powers of the State, in the king, in the judges, in the majority of political parties present here, which, before democracy, often defends the unity of Spain. Finally, it is not necessary to be very perceptive to know that this motion will probably not prosper - some with some arguments, others with others; some with a more rigid tone, others with a softer tone - because what is going to form is a great coalition of Spanish nationalism, from VOX to PSOE, which refuses to recognize the majorities that take place in Catalonia in favor of self-determination and the end of repression. I appreciate that, yes, the position of the United We can, which seems to us honest. We do not agree with them in the future of independence for our country, but it does seem to us that it is good to agree on fair rules of play, which go through precisely that, through the end of repression and through self-determination. Surely you will pass the apisonator over us again; you will again give a doorway, because you also have the assurance that you will have judges and even the media, who demonise our demands. We only have our people and also some certainties, such as that resistance takes time to bear fruit, but that's all we have left. So we have to tell them that, one way or another, we'll do it again, we'll do it again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u114	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the defence of the amendments put forward by your group, Mr Asens Llodrá intervenes, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u115	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the UPC for bringing an important debate to this House. After ninety days of chair noise, eight months of provisional government and a long electoral winter, at last we have Government in Catalonia and, therefore, the dialogue table must be put into operation already to address the conflict in Catalonia. But before that, we have to de-judgment. From the outset, we have had a very clear road map: pardons and repeal of the sedition crime. I believe that these two ideas, with the progressive and plurinational majority in this House, can operate, but in that debate the proposal of the independent parties, amnesty, cannot be excluded. I say that because we are concerned that this debate has been banned at the Bureau of this Congress against our votes. Members of the Bureau have been appointed to the Constitutional Court. How can they say something is constitutional or not? How can a power that belongs to the magistrates be arrogated? The truth is, it's amazing. In fact, a proposal may have elements of unconstitutionality, but it can be corrected. It is then, a posteriori, when the Constitutional Court says whether a law is constitutional or not. Do you know what this is? A political censorship that gags this Congress, degrades the democratic principle of parliamentaryism and aggravates the crisis of legitimacy caused by the judicialization of politics. We may or may not agree with the amnesty, but the debate cannot be denied. That is to deny Spanish democracy and its history; it is to deny what the Supreme Court has said, but even what the Constitutional Court has said when it has said that amnesty is fully constitutional, which fits into our system; in fact, the Criminal Prosecution Act provides it as a cause of extinction of criminal responsibility. How will the debate on the nature of a law that gave rise to our democracy be unconstitutional? Or are we saying that it depends on who proposes amnesty and who benefits? If we're saying that, it's even more serious. Ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish political system is born of an amnesty. It is not true what Mr Iceta said last week that this only occurs in contexts of rupture, of regime change. No; there are many examples. I put one to you: in 1936 an amnesty was approved for those condemned in the previous legislature, when he ruled the right, in the acts of Catalonia, Asturias, of 1934. And that also happened in other countries: in France, in Portugal in the 1980s and even in the 1990s. It is therefore not true what has been said about it being incompatible with democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentaryism is a debate. If we want dialogue to work, let us not cheat, let us not play with the rule of law. We must be strong in consensus, but we cannot hide dissent, let alone ban debate. Last week Mrs Vehi and Mr Iceta gave an example that one can disagree with respect and also have points of agreement. I found two: from here we went out talking and from here we went out voting. But there are more consensuses. We are interested in that: what consensus there is. I see three: the dialogue table, the penal reform and the prisoners on the street, which is what the citizens of Catalonia want, 80% according to the surveys. Let's move from there. This week the Supreme will surely send the pardon file to the Government. The judges' time will be over; then, politics must regain its prominence. A stage of hope is opening up; it is not going to be easy, but it is clear that in order to strengthen we need to get out of our comfort zones, to put ourselves in the place of the other, to make our positions more flexible, to empathize and, above all, to be clear that there is no alternative without dialogue, and less by banning debates. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u116	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Segura Just has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u117	Before I begin my speech, I would like to pay tribute to my father, José Segura Sanfeliú, President of the Popular Alliance of Catalonia, who was a Member of this House. [[Applauds]] Mr Botran of the CUP presents a motion in which he talks about a dialogue table. Let's see, I'd like the CUP to show me what it means by table and what it means by dialogue. Because I remind the CUP that they themselves, their activists, their affiliates and their violent sector, which are tied up every weekend, are devoting themselves to tipping over the information tents that we set up in the towns and cities of Catalonia. I also want to be explained what they mean by dialogue when in the Parliament of Catalonia they refuse to speak with the People's Party, with Citizens and with VOX. [[Applauds]] Is that the dialogue you understand? [[Applauds]] You're a violent party, just like Bildu is. Bildu, for example, comes from the machine gun culture, but here they are very quiet and do not practice violence in the Basque Country at the moment. You are systematically practicing violence in Catalonia and the obligation of democratic deputies and democratic institutions is to expel the violent from the institutions. And this we are already doing in Catalonia. We have achieved eleven Members, led by Ignacio Garriga, who are setting up a silver bridge to evict you from the Catalan institutions. Violence is not included in democracy. [[Applauds]] You have no idea what the rule of law is. In the rule of law, the king, the President of the Government, the head of the opposition, myself, the President of Parliament or any citizen can go to jail if he commits a crime. In their idyllic idea of independent Catalonia, of the Catalan Republic, they consider that the President of the Generalitat or the Councillors can do whatever they like and absolutely nothing happens. Yes, if you are delinquent in Spain you go to prison, because Spain is a democratic country. [[Applauds]] The dialogue table that you propose is still a mediation between the central government and the independenceists - coup-makers, in other words. I will tell you one thing: I am a mediator, apart from a lawyer, and when mediation arises, mediators always meditate on issues that are possible. Now, if in a mediation a part requests the moon, there is no mediation possible. And I tell you one thing: national sovereignty is not negotiable. [[Applauds]] It's not negotiable because you don't negotiate with criminals. I, as a lawyer, when I go to a court, the justiciable, the prisoner, who is on the bench, can negotiate with the prosecutor the time he is going to be in prison, more or less time; now, he never negotiates whether the law is applied or not, which is what you want to do. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to tell the Members of the CUP, the Members of Junts per Cat and all those who seek to undermine the democratic law and constitutional order that if the PSOE offers them a table, VOX offers them a bank or, rather, a bench. [[Applauds]] Now let's talk about the chapter on pardons. The government of the PSOE, with manifest affluence, acting as a criminal, intends this summer, when this Parliament is not assembled, to pin the pardon on us so that your ladies and gentlemen cannot debate it and cannot deny it. They will do so, it is already agreed; Mr Sánchez, in an exercise of political survival, does so because he has no other remedy and it is the way out that he finds, typical of the Socialist Party: to yield sovereignty. But I, as a Catalan MP, am already used to the time of the People's Party with Aznar and Rajoy, and the time of Felipe González and Zapatero, in which they were selling pieces of national sovereignty to separatists in exchange for sometimes ridiculous votes on state budgets. Let's see, the PSOE and the government act like a lizard. Instead of planting face they will release the tail and that tail is divided into three parts: one part is the pardon, another part is the police station of Via Layetana and another part will surely be the Bruch headquarters, as already happened with the Loyola headquarters. The feathers are softening, there's an intention already... [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u118	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time's up. Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u119	Pick it up on. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent decades we have seen in Catalonia a political conflict, of a political nature, with zero violence. And before that the State, all its powers, responded by applying the Basque staff; that is, denial, criminalization and repression, both police and legal, taking it to the extremes of the law and even outside it. The response of Catalan society on 1 October - a ridiculous fact for a State: being the first State to suppress a plebiscite - was a response in democratic terms, an exercise of civil disobedience and I believe it must be recognized; we congratulate Catalan society for setting an example in the face of barbarity and repression. Of course, there were powers of the State that in the face of this fact, in the face of that political crisis, merely political, tried to change the paradigm, that is, to move from a political conflict to a police and judicial one, and from there came repression. I believe that the fact that there is at the moment a party that is talking about the release of political prisoners representing the majority of Catalan society is a positive news, of course, but that does not solve neither the repression nor that problem of repression that they have generated - it solves a part of it but not the repression as a whole - and it does not solve the political crisis generated, which is still there, remains the same as it was in 2017. Faced with this, many are telling us - said President Sánchez this morning - that this will solve the crisis. No, no. Does it help another climate? Obviously, but the political crisis remains the same as it was and the repressive problem generated by the powers of the state - it is true that some not controlled by you; others will tell me that they are independent, but no, they are controlled by these gentlemen and those gentlemen - remains there. [[pointing left and right]] It is true that most constitutional systems do not a priori recognize the right of external self-determination, that is - neither is it true that none recognizes it or has not recognized it before - but it is also true that the great democracies, when they see that there is a conflict of a political nature, seek the mechanisms for that society, permanent in time and with a consolidated majority in favour of deciding its constitutional future, to decide it democratically, including by modifying its constitutional system; we have talked several times about the examples of Greenland with Denmark, Quebec in Canada or Northern Ireland and Scotland in the United Kingdom. These conflicts of a political nature are resolved by dialogue, negotiation in good faith and agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about independence - obviously, if Catalan society so defends it, it has the right, of course, to take its way free - this is also about democracy. Now that I see many reading on their phones, their tablets, I recommend an article on October 8, 2012 - nine years have passed - of a gentleman who was a Democrat; he was not a Catalan independenceist, he was a Democrat. That gentleman was called Rubio Llorente - I think you will know him very well, because he was president of the Council of State and vice president of the Constitutional Court - and that October 8th the newspaper El País published an article called A referendum for Catalonia. I encourage you to look for it on your computers or tablets. He argues that beyond what the Constitution says, which can be interpreted, if there is a majority in time in one place, in a territory of the State, one must try to clarify what weight that majority has and if necessary, if that majority is revalidated or ratified, make the necessary changes. That is why I say that a referendum, which is how things are solved in democratic states, would help not only Catalan society to express itself freely, but this State and this Government to be better, to be more guarantors, more progressive and to tend to resolve a conflict of a political nature by democratic means, by democratic principle. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u120	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, good afternoon. Mr Botran, let us vote yes - of course - because we agree that the proposed organic law should have been dealt with - there is no legal reason for it not to be so - and because we believe that the referendum would be the solution to the Catalan national conflict. That being said, I'm actually surprised that I'm presenting it here and now. I don't know what opportunity you've seen, I miss exactly what the specific purpose of the motion is, because, did you really want to convince them? It seemed so with his intervention. Did you really want to convince them? It takes less time than others, but you don't know how many times we've discussed this with more time, with more depth. Did you really want to convince them to even admit to the amnesty law? How is this going to be, when - another concrete example - the government is asked whether the so-called political police, which was tested in the existing Committee of Inquiry, has used the Pegasus system to spy on politicians and the Bureau denies that it can be dealt with? He does not expect the Government to answer no or say: we knew nothing; it is the Bureau itself that refuses to deal with it. Here, unfortunately, many of the decisions are not taken at the legal level, they are taken at the political level when they should actually be reduced to the legal level. Now, if you haven't been right at the table, do you think you're gonna give it here? No, right? The patch is going to be bigger and they're going to say: Very well what the Bureau did. In fact, I do not understand that they are trying to convince them of the differences between amnesty and pardon, with which I agree; in fact I have expressed myself in this way to the press and in organs of this House. Honestly, you know what's gonna happen, you pointed it out yourself at the end. With regard to the table of dialogue, man, that on the first day of the president you impose on him that he must immediately agree a referendum sounds more marked to the institution itself than to anything else; it has also been a coincidence that he has coincided today, but you certainly already knew what was going to happen when he presented the motion last week. Of course, we already know that this House is very and very Spanish, the problem is that it is not going to be given by the PSOE publicly, which is who is in the government, together with Podemos, and who would have to make movements afterwards. However, they are now going to vote no to the proposals you are making. Will this therefore make it easier to achieve an amnesty or pardons or the possibility of a referendum? For I believe that there, in the sense of opportunity, or you seek other more momentary objectives, more image, or truly, for the objective that we would like both you and me, helps very little the moment in which you have presented it. Obviously, we will vote in favour, of course, because we absolutely agree with the substance. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u122	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u123	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating today to see the years of the lost process marmot. The CUP, a party that has openly defended unilaterality, which has supported Arran's violence against the dissidents of the process... [[Mr. Botran Pahissa makes negative gestures]] Yes, Mr. Botran. You come here, make a moderate speech and make discussions about political and legal philosophy, whether or not the amnesty law fits into the Constitution, but you do not condemn Arran's violence against the dissidents of the process, the violence against us, against the People's Party, against the Socialist Party, against the media. You don't condemn her, do you? Well, then there's not much more to add. It has served no useful time in trying to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain, except to break the coexistence between Catalans, undermine the dignity of the institutions and also ruin a prosperous land like Catalonia. While Catalonia literally sinks in social and economic terms towards other regions of Spain, no longer being the economic and political engine that it was, the independence parties continue and continue to speak of the 'neverendum', the amnesty and the supposed political prisoners. The other day Mrs Vehí, Member of the CUP, said that the Spanish Constitution does not serve as a tool because it does not allow referendum or amnesty, because it does not allow them to talk about Catalonia's independence. Mrs Vehi, we are talking here today - and I am not telling you in the Parliament of Catalonia, where you and I have been Members - about the independence of Catalonia, and day and day too, and you, by the way, are not in jail to talk about independence. So don't make fantasies about that in Spain you can't talk about independence or that it's a repressive state and it doesn't allow you to talk about this. [[The lady]] In addition, all that has not served any good, and what we cannot accept is that you say that there is no debate in Spain. It's not that we debate, it's that even the government of the nation has tables of dialogue with what they call Catalonia, which is nothing but Catalan separatism, because in that dialogue they exclude millions of non-separatist Catalans. Do you, too, intend to tell us that it is the Constitutional Court that silences debates? Are you telling us, who you tried to silence, while I was there, when you hit Parliament? Is it the Spanish state that doesn't allow us to speak? But if I was at the Bureau of Parliament when you did not allow Members to speak who did not share your thesis! They speak of 3,000 reprisals and refer to imprisoned politicians who have committed crimes and who have been tried with all guarantees as political prisoners. This insults the memory of the true political prisoners, who are those who are condemned for their ideas. But there is something even worse, and it is that you, when you come here, arroginate the representativeness of all Catalans, arroginate the representativeness of all, as if the Catalan people were in nationalist or separatist subtotality. Just as often as the opposite is shown, because you are unable to assume that plurality in your speeches. Moreover, to those who do not share that plurality, the political satellites of their formations, such as Arran, harass them, attack them, insult them, stone them and paint them the seats, and that is not necessary for you to say here. Well, yes, you have to say it here because that happens, and it still happens today Catalonia. So, lessons of democracy we cannot accept from you, who are, moreover, the reliable proof that ideas do not lead anyone to jail in our country, but take them their actions, after a trial that could see any inhabitant of the land who had access to the Internet. We would like that to happen in the countries you admire, but unfortunately it does not. Nor can I end my intervention without addressing the Socialist Party and Minister Iceta, even if I am not here, because I shared with him, yes, the defence of democracy in the worst days in Parliament, to which I have referred, and I have no pain in recognizing it, but it does hurt me to see how today the Socialist Party wants to rewrite the sentence, the history of what happened, blocking pardons not out of conviction - which I no longer know what the PSOE's conviction is about - but because of the pure survival in Moncloa, because they have chosen the worst possible partners to govern and therefore choose to pay the worst possible price. They speak of pardon as something natural, and I ask Mr.Iceta that, if he remembers anything about what happened in Parliament in 2017, he is convinced that it is an immoral pardon to follow in Moncloa to those who have done so much harm to Catalonia and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u125	Thank you, Madam President. To Mr Segura, who I do not know if he is in the room, I will mention some previous questions. First of all, lucky that you were mediator and non-combatant, because I can't imagine what you would say from this rostrum. The second issue is that I have astronomical ideological discrepancies with the UPC, but that I call it a violent party is not a receipt. Frankly, it is not acceptable to allow these disqualifications. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we are voting on the motion as a result of an inquiry with one point, but it had two. That is why we are voting in favour of the two points. Frankly, it is a democratic anomaly, not since a proposal for a law cannot be dealt with, but it cannot even vote for its support in a motion resulting from an inquiry. Indeed, the Bureau does not know what its objectives are, but it is doing this Parliament a little favour, it is doing the democratic institutions of the Spanish State a little favor, and it is doing the State a little favor. Hey, if you already have a majority, if you're going to reject it quietly, why are you subjecting this democratic stress to this House? It's a mistake they're going to pay in the present and they're going to pay in the future. The dialogue table has to meet now, I would say that without haste - in fact, haste so far there has been none - but without pauses, and pauses for different reasons there has been enough. At the moment, responsibility lies with the Government of the Generalitat and with the Government of the State. They have to start, and each one, democratically, must be able to make his proposals freely. It is obvious that the President of the Generalitat must bring to this table the amnesty of political prisoners, but not only of political prisoners, but also the amnesty of all political reprisals on 1 October, 9 November and other events, and must bring to the table the proposal for an agreed referendum, as is done in other civilized, democratic States of the world, which does not generate any distortion. In any case, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u126	Thank you, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u127	Thank you, President. Some of us came here today to debate, but the debate has again been censored. Those with whom we are supposed to sit at the dialogue table for dialogue and discussion on amnesty are the same ones who have just censored the debate and talk about amnesty in the Congress of Deputies. On the other hand, in the last few weeks it seems that many of you have enjoyed talking and discussing pardons, forgiveness. Jaume, we want political prisoners to be on the street, to return home; we want exiles to return to their country, to Catalonia, to their home; we want the more than three thousand reprisals to be able to defend their ideas freely. We haven't come all this way so that the big prize is for you to forgive us. Nor have we asked for forgiveness, gentlemen of VOX, nor are we going to ask for forgiveness, and less for planting face to face the fascism that many of you represent. In fact, the ones who should apologize are many of those who are here, all those who pressed the 155 button and repression. Our children are not going to grow up in a futureless country like the one you are leaving, we are not going to allow our children to grow up in a country where they can end up in prison by defending their ideas democratically and peacefully. Some of us are very clear about the strategy of the Spanish State, in fact, it is manual: to confront and divide. They have been doing so for many years by exerting repression, drowning us economically, drowning us with complaints and complaints, keeping the Government of the Generalitat de Catalunya in oppression Ia l'exili. No matter who rules, there are political prisoners and exiles ruling the People's Party, ruling the PSOE and now the PSOE's progressive government with Podemos. They do so, too, by imprisoning workers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, no matter how much they ruin them and ruin their families, only by defending their ideas, only by being independent, and all this by the hand of patriotic justice, using all the spokesmen of the media regime as a speaker. [[Finish your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Applauds]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Yesterday we appointed Pere Aragonès i García, of Esquerra Republicana, president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, with great pride, but they know perfectly well that it would have been Oriol Junqueras i Vies not to be in prison unjustly for defending democracy and fulfilling the popular mandate. [[Applauds]] It is a proven fact that a referendum is not an independent instrument, if not, look at the case of Quebec in Canada or Scotland in Britain. The Spanish State has two ways of dealing with independence - the first way, through the ballot box, as in the cases exposed by Quebec and Scotland, or the second way, through the imposition of force - and chose the second when it beat us on 1 October and with the more than 3000 reprisals that currently exist in the Spanish State for defending their ideas, with advisers and advisers and a president of the Parliament of Catalonia, Carme Forcadell, in prison as a political prisoner; with our general secretary, Marta Rovira, in exile together with President Puigdemont; with Anna Gabriel and the rest of the advisers in exile. Organizing a referendum is not a crime, it is not a crime!, it is precisely decriminalized. So how can you talk about full democracy when parliamentarians' rights are violated, for example by depriving Oriol Junqueras of the minutes of the Member or MEP? Because, in fact, he was violated not only by Junqueras, but also by all the citizens who chose him freely. How can you speak of full democracy when our adviser, Raül Romeva, who is unjustly sentenced to twelve years in prison and serving that sentence, is now, curiously enough, facing a new procedure of the Barcelona 18 Court of Instruction - he and ten others - for the same facts? How can they speak of full democracy when they look elsewhere at the recommendations of the United Nations and Amnesty International on crimes of rebellion and sedition, hate crimes or insults to the Crown? Shame, shame is what I feel as a European citizen. How can they speak of full democracy, if there is a court, the Court of Auditors - another shame, woe!, because it is an absolutely politicized and partial court in its decisions -, with the sole function of being a more repressive instrument of the State to silence political dissent and which, not having enough to deprive of the most precious good, the freedom of our political prisoners and prisoners, want to ruin them? [[applause]] A court that has violated the principles of impartiality, clarity, conciseness, balance and weighting - and I do not say so myself - principles that also lack the Constitutional Court, as was to be expected, the Supreme Court and what to say about the General Council of the Judiciary. Despite the fact that many PSOE ministers have expressed their will and willingness to reach agreements in favour of dialogue and negotiation, this pollution and hatred they have towards the independence movement is perfectly credited, and that is not the way forward, think about it. If you really want to end the repressive path initiated by the PP and increased by VOX, the only solution to put an end to all that repression is amnesty. The inauguration of Pérez Aragonès as president of the Generalitat de Catalunya demonstrates one thing: 52% of the people of Catalonia wanted the Generalitat to be presided over by an independent republican. If you have the will to be true democrats someday, you should work for that full democracy with which you so much fill your mouth. As far as the franchise of the PSOE in Catalonia is concerned, despite its election results, they are unable to understand themselves with anyone and are engaged in parliamentary ostracism. I'm done here, ladies and gentlemen. A new era is beginning today, a new dialogue of negotiation and agreement, which must be the backbone of politics, but without forgetting that we are suffering repression and that such repression should cease immediately, the only solution being amnesty for all of them and for them. Of course, we will vote in favour of the motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Botran, I do not think you will surprise anyone if I begin by saying that we do not share your speech or your fallacious arguments at all. Look, Scotland and Catalonia are two different cases and they cannot be compared from a historical or legal point of view. For starters, Scotland has been for centuries an independent nation and kingdom. Catalonia has never been. Secondly, the Scottish referendum was agreed and approved by the British Parliament, while the self-determination referendum you want to impose on us is manifestly contrary to our Constitution and international law and is therefore illegal. Finally, in Scotland no independent leader has jumped the law, while in Catalonia there has been a blow to democracy that has led several political leaders to jail for the commission of very serious crimes, including the sedition and embezzlement of public funds. [[Applauds]] A secessionist challenge and a struggle against the State that wants to stay alive from the Generalitat in order, in the words of Mr Aragonès, to culminate and make independence inevitable, forcing the State to carry out a referendum. Look at the terms: shock and strength. Very democratic, isn't it? Of the damage and division that this strategy and this new challenge would cause to Catalan society I do not comment on anything because we already know that it gives them exactly the same, but we do tell them that they will fail, that despite their threats they will fail again if they want to continue challenging the rule of law, because confrontation and illegality are ways that always end up bumping into a wall. And stop talking about conflict and identifying the law with repression. The law in democracy is always an instrument of freedom and its application by the courts can never be regarded as an act of repression, but as an act of justice, which is something quite different, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the only conflict that exists here is that which some have with the principle of legality, in which I include their extravagant request for collective amnesty. Look, there are things that can't be changed in democracy. For example, it cannot be changed that we are all equal before the law or that the law obliges everyone, because if any of these principles are missing, we would no longer be talking about democracy. Can the Constitution and our territorial model be changed in Spain? Yes, but what cannot be changed is that that decision and that right belong to all the Spaniards, because the only existing sovereignty is that which resides in the Spanish people as a whole, which is neither visible nor plotable. Here we all decided the future of everyone, also the future of Catalonia, because Catalonia is Spain, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] We are not going to renounce that right, nor are you going to impose on us that we renounce it or stop being constitutionalists, just as we do not demand them to stop being independent or whatever they want to be. We only ask them to respect and abide by the law. Because democracy is born with freedom, but it always lives with the law. Don't forget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you have already heard what has been said this afternoon from this rostrum, also your governing partners. It seems that they are the last to know that those who sit on the other side of that humiliating negotiating table all they want is to break our sovereignty and territorial integrity by the brave or in stages, which in the end gives the same. That is why this table - which you call the meeting - is in fact a contempt for the constitutionalists, an aggravation to the rest of the autonomous communities loyal to the state and an offence for the majority of Spaniards and for those Catalans who do not feel independent. And if you don't believe it, your friend Tezanos dares to ask you at the CIS. Last week Minister Iceta said that the objective of that table was to dialogue to reach an agreement and then vote on it. What agreement are you talking to me about? Because those on the other side of the table have already put the conditions: amnesty, sovereignty and referendum of self-determination. And how are these conditions impossible to fulfill, can you tell me what they will offer you in return? The date of the pardons? A new statute even if it's unconstitutional? Don't you realize that that would be a tremendous irresponsibility? Where would they then leave their sense of state? I'm on my way. It is you who have moved away from constitutionalism and have voluntarily chosen a path and partners so as to remain in power. And it is you who, with that table, can be generating expectations that will then not be able to meet and the only thing that will generate is more division and more tension. Because you should already know that when the water is shaken, the water moves, but the fault is not of the water, but of the one who moves it. They're still in time to rectify. Think about it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Bermudez de Castro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u133	Thank you, President. Very well what the Bureau did, Aitor, even if you're not. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it seems that you have a memory for what you want. The problem is not what socialists do, the problem is what you did not do. Because with you there was an illegal referendum in October 2017, with you there was the consultation on 9 November 2014 and with you there was Puigdemont. [[applause]] They failed and led us to failure, to the biggest territorial conflict that Spain has had since the adoption of the Constitution, and that is their responsibility, never to be forgotten. But you have erased that past, just as you believe that by deleting the direction of Genoa 13 your corrupt management will disappear. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, lying requires memory and you have little, perhaps because you don't like how bad you did it. The non-independence Catalans with their vote have indicated that the solution does not go through revenge or revenge, which are not in the Constitution; it goes through harmony, understanding and dialogue. Gentlemen of VOX, you hate even hugs. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u135	You hate even the hugs, the hugs of the Moon and the hugs of Juanfran, to whom with all our admiration we send a strong hug. [[Applauds]] They've come here to spread hatred. It is not the land that is trampled, or in its case trampled, but the land that is worked or embraced. Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, for you the rule of law is seen as a problem; for us it is the solution. Look, you're the only party that calls itself an anti-system, but you always vote for the right. And that is the reflection of the process, a decorative slogan for the room revolutionaries to keep in power the powerful of always. [[applause]] His vows have only served to ensure that a prominent member of IBEX is an Economic Advisor; that health, housing and social policies are in the hands of the right-wing forever. Mrs Vehi criticized in the debate of the general elections - do you remember? - that members of Esquerra were at the wedding of the daughter of whom with her buttons councillor of Economy. You've made the bride's father a counselor with your vows! [[Applauds]] It's fantastic to see how the CUP's ladies and gentlemen support an economic advisor from La Caixa, and that the champions of health cuts get that councillor back. Mrs. Vehi, Mr. Rufián, who is not here, the IBEX is not as right-wing as they say, is it? [[Laughter]] You guys are a fraud. The CUP preaches, but wheat is taken by the Catalan right; wheat, European funds, public works. Come on, the money we're supposed to have to reverse the consequences of the pandemic. You're only good for moralin lessons. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how do you live by giving lessons to then always serve the Catalan right? Because in the end you always appear to save the Catalan right, between hugs and vows. They're sure nothing will change in Catalonia. We have always been and will be clear: there will be no independence, no referendum on self-determination, no amnesty, no clash. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the CUP, last week you went to the PSC in derogatory terms: what's left of the PSC, he said. Do you know what's left of the PSC? We have to be the first party in Catalonia and we have to be the hope of the Catalans and Catalans on the left. [[Applauds]] The PSC was not founded to surrender, and however much it may be, we will continue to insist on the reunion of Catalan society, on finding the solution to rebuild the broken bridges. If it were for you, there would only be conflict; if it is for us, Catalonia will have a future. You made a spot throwing a van over a cliff; you forgot that inside that van we were all Catalans. Correct. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Zaragoza. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u137	We accept the amendment of the United Nations Parliamentary Group We can.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u138	Thank you very much. They shall be voted on accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We vote, first of all, to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the amendment of Law 15/2012 of 27 December of fiscal measures for energy sustainability and Law 24/2013 of 26 December of the Electrical Sector for the reduction of electricity bill. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 105 plus 244 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 41 plus 113 telematics votes, 154; against, 64 plus 106 telematics votes, 170; abstentions, 25 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u140	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u141	We shall proceed to vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to incorporate a new Title XIV for the regulation of interest groups. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 63 plus 144 telematics votes, 207; against, 1 plus 52 telematics votes, 53; abstentions, 40 plus 48 telematics votes, 88.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-25-CD210525.u142	Accordingly, consideration is being given to the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies. Thank you so much. Good night. The meeting was suspended. It was eight and forty-five minutes of the night.
