ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. [[Pause]] We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u2	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, your pardons to those convicted of sedition and embezzlement have nothing to do with living together in Spain, but with the well-being of your Government. To the abuse of pardons are adding insult to some justifications to which the most pilgrim. But what is it about comparing justice with revenge or saying that the best justice is the worst policy? You have come to claim that you are going to grant pardons to counter the Supreme Court. The letter from Junqueras that has so relieved you what has done has been to worry, even more, millions of Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards that what we see is, truly concerned, that what is intended is to move from an illegal referendum, unilateral to a referendum agreed with you outside the Constitution. Madam Vice-President, there is no point of amendment. The letters are the proof of perseverance and the pardons what they are going to get are for the condemned to try again to commit a crime. You know perfectly well they don't conform, they don't want pardon, they want amnesty. Are you guys gonna give in to that, too? And, by the way, why does the Government accept an official interlocutor for sedition and embezzlement? I'm asking you to explain, if you can. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u3	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, the first part of the formulation of your question I imagine is a preventive annotation for what you are going to do on Sunday. There's everyone. And on the final part, which is where you ask the question, I will not answer anything that has not happened. Or are you going to invent preventive control also in this House? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u5	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u6	Madam Vice-President, who is silent, grants. As I said at the beginning of my question, we agree with many of those 275 000 socialist voters who have already abandoned them and turned their backs on them in Madrid on 4 May. The agreed referendum is nothing new; what it is is the perfect alibi. Everyone already knows that the decision has been made. The only thing you're waiting for is the perfect time. So don't fool us and don't fool us. Mrs. Calvo, tell millions of non-independence Catalans! Do you admit there's repression? Do you admit that there are political prisoners? Why did they not speak of pardons during the election campaign of the general elections and the Catalan elections? The Spaniards do not want a justice that is trampled on by a government; they do not want a government that is allied with criminals and what they do not want is a government president who equals justice with revenge. If they have a minimum of dignity, respect the Catalans. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, a couple of previous questions. Best justice is not always the best policy. It's not a phrase of mine - I wish it were - it's from a president of the United States who had to face a very important historical situation. Find it and see how interesting it is. Another previous question, don't worry about the militants of my party, worry about your comrades who won't come on Sunday to accompany Mr. Married to the second part of the photo of Columbus. [[Applauds]] Worry about them, you'll be better off on the days left from here to Sunday. Mrs. Gamarra, do you finally know what's going on with you, the People's Party? Spain does not need VOX, the ultra-right, we already have you, who go after them. [[Laughter]] You are no alternative, you have no project, you have nothing at the top of the table, absolutely nothing! That is why you are going to Plaza de Colón in Madrid, to continue to confront Catalonia against Spain and Spain against Catalonia, to which you have contributed for ten long years. This government is the heir of its disaster, of the disaster of its party, which we try to resolve in a constitutional and dignified way, for the good of this country! [[applause]] They do not help us, but leave us in that responsibility with a little calm for the people of this country, which you worry about, with your corruption and with your sham. The Plaza de Colón is the swimming pool, the impotence. And, by the way, brave - you are very brave! - they collect signatures in Catalonia; look at the Catalans, at the independenceists and at the non-independenceists!, look at them in the face and tell them that they have some way out for this country! Say it, because they don't have it! [[Applauds]] [[Mrs. Vice-President Third and Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez: All right, all right!-Applause]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY DON'T THE GOVERNMENT DEFEND THE GENERAL INTEREST OF THE SPAIN? [[File number 180/000572]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u9	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, the most defining features of a democracy are, firstly, the separation of powers and, secondly, the limitation of power. The limitation, Madam Vice-President, which you do not like very much. Even the Government of Spain also has limits; they were set a few days ago by the Constitutional Court, which, in response to an appeal submitted by VOX, reproaches him that the royal decree-law will take advantage of to put Pablo Iglesias in the CNI. This week it has also been the turn of another legal body, the General Council of the Judiciary, where the plenary of the Council - including conservatives and progressives - has stressed that its Law on Democratic Memory, Vice-President, yours, has damaged precisely what it claims to defend, that it is democratic rights, the right to assembly, association or to freedom of ideology and expression. But the most serious thing in this report is the appeal you make to the general interest, to leave it to the Government to decide what is democratic and what is not, which is the most totalitarian thing that has been heard in a long time. The general interest, I remind you, is what your Government is now calling for to justify shameful pardons to the coup perpetrators convicted as payment for the support of the Government of Pedro Sánchez. Why does the Spanish Government not defend the general interest of the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u11	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I almost always have to end up methodologically thinking the same thing. The general interest is a flexible and indeterminate concept that the Constitution attributes to a very important part to the Government of Spain which appreciates it when it tells it to make policy. The Constitution says only in one place and to a political body: to the Government of Spain. But do you know what the situation is? That the general interest of which you speak does not coincide with that of this Government. For you the general interest is a sort of retrograde phrases, vaccines, about Spain, which have nothing to do with what we think is the general interest and what I am going to give you three brushstrokes: almost twenty million compatriots vaccinated with double or a pattern; the figures of membership in Social Security and unemployment, extraordinary, and a mobilization of economic resources to bring this country forward. For us this is the general interest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u13	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u14	Madam Vice-President, your government has already held three legislatures in just three years, and if we have learned anything, it is that you are not moved by the general interest, but by the particular interest of Pedro Sánchez, and it is not another. It is precisely that interest - the particular interest of Pedro Sánchez - that has allowed you to pact even with the devil, which is the same as saying pact with Bildu. You have already made a policy of bringing the most bloody ETA prisoners closer to the Basque Country with the aim of gradually releasing themselves after transferring the matter of prisons; a real insult to the victims, an insult to which President Sánchez's visit to Ortega Lara's zulo this week has been added; an insult, Madam Vice-President, to the memory of the victims; that is a democratic memory, that is a historic memory that is worth preserving. If they are pardoning the most dangerous murderers in Spain's history, how can they not now pardon the thugs and corrupts, those condemned for sedition and embezzlement? Because Sanchez's interest is worth a table or a pardon or a referendum or whatever it takes. Look, it's no wonder Felipe González says he feels orphaned. No wonder Alfonso Guerra says pardons are illegal. No wonder Mr Rubalcaba warned you against the composition of a Frankenstein government. And I'm not surprised why you have more and more Spaniards against each other. You were talking about Columbus this Sunday, in Columbus you will see: Spaniards of all political colors showing their rejection of this government. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u15	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have brought the lie in bulk to Spanish politics. [[Rumors]] They do so with such facsimileness that you have just said here - I imagine it is in the Journal of Sessions - that we have pardoned murderers. I urge you to say who and when, and stop lying and convulsing this country that is still going through a pandemic! Stop lying to the Spaniards! Stop worrying! [[Applauds]] And yes, I'm going to talk to you about victims and democratic memory, which I have to remind you of every Wednesday something, the families of the murdered women that you put three meters on the banners. And they don't fall for shame! What about those families that have murdered their daughters, those children, their brothers and sisters? Don't you feel like you're compatriots? [[Applauds]] I'll remind you every Wednesday. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President, Third and Minister of Labour and Social Economy: WILL YOU DEROGATE THE WORK REFORM? [[File number 180/00556]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u17	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u18	Mrs Calvo, brave is not to sell to justice for two years of government; rather that is cowardice, cowardice. Gentlemen of the Government, today is a very special day. Today is La Rioja Day, but it is also Murcia Region Day, and I want to congratulate you because I know you have special affection for this land. [[Laughter]] Mrs Díaz, to govern a country, the first thing to do is to listen to it, and I say this to you because the government you are part of seems not to have learned the lesson yet. Besides, you don't need to lie to justify your management. I remind you - because you lied here a while ago in this House - that for five consecutive years the People's Party created half a million jobs a year, which were chained fifty-two months of increase in indefinite recruitment, which put in place a supplement of pensions to the mothers you eliminated, and that the ERTEs developed, which do not fall to you, but could ask you to always say: Thank you to the People's Party. Try to do something useful for Spain and stop manipulating past data. Between the sunset of Podemos and the fissure of this parody of unity with which they have come to govern, they are distracted by what is really happening in this country. With the current economic forecasts it is out of logic to repeal the labour reform of the People's Party. Therefore, I would like to ask you again - although this bothers your colleague Calviño, who has not come today - I ask you sincerity: Will you repeal the labor reform? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u19	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u20	Your Honor, thank you for your question. The Government of Spain will repeal what it has to repeal, as we have already done, and we will build a new framework of labour relations, which is what our country needs. [[laughs]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u21	Mrs. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u22	Mrs. Díaz, you will pardon anyone who has to pardon, you will repeal what you have to repeal. We already know what they're going to do, but make it clear, be brave. Either lie to Europe or lie to the Spaniards, one of two, but what is clear is that they lie. They were going to raise taxes to the rich, but in Sánchez Spain putting the washing machine and ironing have become luxury activities. His government is very dear to the Spaniards. You're talking about concord, even though you're mistaken for being part of a divided, face-to-face government with one of unity. But I tell you one thing, Minister, everything has a limit. While you make calculations to stay in the Moncloa a little longer, the People's Party stands as the first political choice of the Spaniards and it will be Pablo Casado who fixes this disguised one, no matter how much you do not accept it, gentlemen of the government. [[laughs]] Basically, you know that the countdown has started, you know that, and I hope that you, Mrs Díaz, Mrs Calvo, gentlemen of the Government, who defend dialogue, agreement and consensus so much, will be able to accept that it is Spain that speaks. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u23	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u24	Your Honor, what is dear to Spain is the corruption caused by the People's Party in our country. [[Applauds]] Look, Mr GarcíaEgea, I'm going to give you a data so that you too can compare it, a Eurostat data. Do you know which country destroyed more employment in the European Union in 2012? [[Rumors.-Mr. García Aegean utters words that are not perceived]] I will tell you: Spain, almost 90% of the jobs destroyed. Listen, Mr García Egea, listen, that is official data, almost 90% of all the jobs destroyed in the European Union occurred when he ruled the People's Party in 2012, Mr García Egea. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Yeah. Mr. García Aegean, you can continue to assert whatever you want, but this data of the destruction of employment... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u26	... and the cause is called labour reform of the People's Party, which has led to Spain having for the first time - as I say again - an unemployment rate of 27%, that is to say 6,278,000 unemployed in Spain. In such a way, Mr García Egea, that your labour reform - I do not say, Mrs Fatima Báñez has said in this House - has not been used to create employment; indeed, it has destroyed it; it has been used to devalue the wages of our country and to precarious labour relations. And it has also served for something else, Mr. García Eggea - I know you are not interested in this, but it is so; Mr. García Eggea, listen, be polite; Mr. García Eggea, listen - has caused great legal uncertainty. [[applause]] The Supreme Court in 2014 fell its ultraactivity proposal, labor reform; hundreds of judgments fell its proposal of preference for the company agreement and, as you know, recently the Supreme Court nothing more and nothing less that has fallen the proposal on subcontracting. Mr García Aegean, it is false, your labor reform has caused damage in our country, and you are unfortunately the worst opposition a government can have in the midst of the pandemic. [[Rumors]] Get down to work and tie your shoulder, because what is happening in our country is that we are emerging from the crisis in record time; today we already have the same affiliation as before the pandemic. So, summarise, sir...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u27	Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President, THIRD MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHY DID YOU SAY THAT THE LEGISLATION 'COMPLIES NOW'? [[File number 180/00551]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u28	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u29	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, good morning. Every time you come to this House in a control session and you have to answer to Mr García Eggea, you end up talking about the labour reform of the People's Party. It is not the Labour Reform of the People's Party, it is your Labour Reform, because you, communist minister, are governing with the reform approved by the People's Party in 2012, and being able to have repealed it the reality is that they have not, so stop talking about the Labour Reform of the People's Party and start talking in your own person and on your own name. [[Rumors]] Start by being grateful and thanking Mr. García Egea!, because thanks to your labor reform you are coded with the economic elites and appear posing smiling from the arm of the CEO's president, Mr. Garamendi. Because if you didn't maintain the Labour Reform of the People's Party, you wouldn't be accepted into that economic elite club. If you think, communist minister, we will resume the session just at the point where we left it, because you, despite not looking at me during the last session of control, should have listened very carefully to me, in view of the relevant facts that occurred in the days immediately after. On the one hand, the Spanish Government changed its position and, if only two months earlier they had supported the salaries of the new president of Caixabank Bankia, at the meeting on 14 May, after this parliamentary group revealed the information they were hiding from the Spaniards, they decided to back off and already, that is, they opposed the salaries of the president of Caixabank. However, they lacked an essential issue, the 8291 workers who are going to go to the street because you have lost it. What did our communist minister do? He decided to send cartitas to the banks, BBVA and Caixabank. Tell us, minister, what did you put in those letters? You reminded the banks, these legal services swindled by state lawyers, of the content of article 51 of the Workers' Statute, according to the wording approved by the People's Party that you are maintaining; because, since you may have repealed it at any Council of Ministers every Tuesday, you have not done so. What's the matter, minister? What's going on? Did those banks deserve their letters as communist minister and the more than 45,000 workers in Spain, who since March 2020 are in a situation of collective dismissal, do they not deserve their letters, communist minister? The reality is that you have left the workers in Spain unprotected, because you have maintained that reform which has eliminated the requirement of prior administrative authorization, which in Spain has been required since 1977 for collective dismissal. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u30	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u31	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I sometimes have doubts in this House - I tell you, Mr Married, with great respect - about whom you speak on behalf of whom. It is very interesting what we are seeing, the Popular Party and VOX merged as a binomial through Mrs Olona. I will be respectful, Mrs Olona, and I will answer the question you have asked. In addition, I am reflecting on what you have just said. Look, it is quite worrying that a leader in our country is unaware of what the Social Dialogue Bureau has been doing for more than two months. You should talk to the representatives of the social partners in our country, and check, even reading the press, how you have been working for two months on the structural reform of our country's labour market, which, by the way, Mrs Olona, has never been done in our country. I would like to inform you that the Social Dialogue Bureau is working hard and well. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I know that you do not like it, but today in our country, thanks to what the Spanish Government has done, thanks to what the majority groups in this House have done and thanks to the social partners, today, no matter how much they feel, we have the same level of membership as before the pandemic. Do you know how long it takes us to get out of the financial crisis thanks to the Labour Reform of the People's Party? I am going to tell you, ten years and eleven months, a tremendous suffering for our country for that norm which you not only presume, but which you continue to maintain today that it has been good. See if you keep it, that you during the pandemic, when most people needed it, were the group that appealed to the Constitutional Court to prevent the overthrow of article 52.d, which allowed workers to be fired when they were sick. If it were for you, Mrs Olona, today, in the middle of the pandemic, we would be firing sick workers. This is your political proposal, just as your political proposal is, Mrs Olona, to vote against, as they have done in the ERTE. Mrs Olona, follow closely what the Social Dialogue Bureau is doing and, as I said fifteen days ago to the groups in this House, we will be accountable before December. [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE FOURTH MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: HOW IS THE VICE-President OF THE IMPACT OF THE NEW ELECTRIC ENERGY ON THE COST OF LIGHT AND ON FAMILY AND CONSUMER OFFICES? [[File number 180/00567]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u32	Questions to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u33	Thank you, President. Mrs. Díaz, the results of 2012 are the results of Rodriguez Zapatero's policies. We created half a million jobs a year since 2013, and we lowered the unemployment rate by 10% when we left the government, Mrs Díaz! [[Applauds]] Mrs Ribera, since you came to the government, energy has risen by 43.6%. We have the most expensive energy in Europe. Electricity is a primary, necessary good that cannot be discriminated against, we have to use it and we are captive to its policies for that reason. Now there's a new tariff regime with different powers, three slots... They transfer responsibility back to the citizens. If we do not follow the habits that you want the bill of light up, if we do not buy the appliances that you want the bill of light up, if you misapply the energy policies we also raise the bill of light. Why is this bill of light so far away from the everyday lives of citizens? They're starting to use electricity when it's more expensive, to collect more. But the worst of all is that this also affects the most vulnerable, the 1.4 million families who received a cut in the bill of almost 40% - from 25 to 40% with the governments of the People's Party - and those you also smash with this initiative. There was an alternative, our proposal for a law, with an immediate 10% reduction in the electricity bill, but assuming the costs of the government, not transferring to the consumer the exclusive responsibility of the government - yours, Madam Vice-President - which is why they rejected it. When you approved this new pricing, did you evaluate anything? Were you aware of the economic impact on industry, SMEs, hospitality, commerce, families? Do you ever think about the consequences of your political decisions? Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u34	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u35	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see that you are still settled in negationism; in the negationism of the European obligations of efficiency, renewables, climate change; in the negationism even of what you have done or of the competences, of how you make a decision which, by the way, Commissioner Cañete asked me to take into consideration nothing more to come. [[rumors]] And they thought that perhaps to cover those fixed infrastructure costs it was best that everyone, regardless of their consumption, would pay a hundred percent of the cost, while the National Commission on Markets and Competition, in 2019, considered that in order to encourage efficiency, equity and reduce on average the bill associated with that part of the payment of electricity, it had to do with the level of consumption and the hours at which the infrastructure is most congested, in order to reduce investment needs in new infrastructure. They forgot that the best way to reduce the energy price was precisely to promote the inclusion of renewable energies, and they forgot that during 2018 and early 2020 the energy bill in our country has been reduced by more than 30%. The unfortunate thing is that we do not control the price of natural gas in international markets or CO2, and that is why we are precisely working to take on a much more equitable proposal in the distribution of consumer costs, something which would be very good if you too are trying to help improve, as the companies themselves are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u36	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u37	Ignore reality. What's going to happen to the electric bill? They don't like reality and if it doesn't fit, they twist it, because the thing here is to impose; not to listen, not to dialogue or to compromise. Changes at this level - so important - require shared efforts, otherwise we are faced with an imposition. Who benefits from this reform, Mrs Ribera? Who benefits? The Spaniards are wondering today what is going to happen to your electric bill, why is it going to go up and who benefits you with this decision. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u38	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u39	Well, look, according to the CNMC - which is who modernized and proposed - all consumers benefit. [[Rumors]] They benefit, in particular, those who move to sections with less time congestion compared to an invoice in which everyone paid the same regardless of what they consumed, which was Mr Nadal's decision. With regard to the price of energy, all consumers - industrialists, domestic consumers, etc. - will benefit, as we are consolidating that proposal for renewable, cheap, affordable and predictable energy, and not like you who were committed to maintaining a dirty, expensive and anti-European Union law system at the risk of fines. But you continue in climate negationism, in the negationism of your action, in the negationism of equity and inequalities... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED MRS. POUJOL I FARRÉ, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE GOVERNMENT: HOW DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT PREVIOUSLY APPROVE THE PLAN FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE EBRO DELTA? [[File number 180/00563]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u41	Question by Mrs Norma Pujol i Farré of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u42	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, when does the Spanish Government intend to finally approve the protection plan for the Ebre Delta?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u43	Our intention is to approve it at the beginning of August, after having completed all the analysis, inclusion and review of the more than six hundred allegations, many of them very interesting, received during the period of allegations that ended at the end of April. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u44	Mrs. Pujol.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u45	Thank you, President. Minister, your proposal for a protection plan for the Delta de l'Ebre resulted in the unanimous rejection of all the administrations of regents, entities and social agents of the territory. The reason was that the content of the plan, in addition to not incorporating any of the consensual actions of the delta, lacked concreteness, timetable and budget. That is why we demand that you present as soon as possible a defined protection plan, setting a date and a timetable for implementation. A plan that incorporates the allegations and actions presented by the Consensus Table, the entities, the administrations and the social movements of the Delta de l'Ebre, that is, without posing a regression of the coastal line and incorporating the guard roads of the bays and promoting urgent actions that help reverse the dynamics of the regression. Among other actions, it is essential to mobilize sediments, sediments that already exist, sediments that are at the bottom of the reservoirs. We also hope that your Government will commit Next Generation funds to the protection of the Ebre Delta. There are hundreds of millions of euros planned to preserve the coastal space and curb the consequences of climate change, but to date it has not specified how many will be allocated to the delta. Your silence contrasts with your Government's commitment to the Mar Menor - which we are celebrating - as Secretary of State Hugo Morán, in November 2020, has already announced that he will mobilise EUR 150 million from the European Recovery Fund to regenerate the Mar Menor, and you yourself last May announced that you would allocate an injection of EUR 100 million from these funds. We ask that this Government commit itself equally to the protection of the Ebre Delta because to date we have heard many words, good intentions, promises, but little concreteness and little action. Either you act now or you will also be responsible for the disappearance of the delta. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u46	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u47	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you are right about the need to commit to the Ebro Delta. In fact, we have repeated and repeated this on many occasions, and in the reconstruction and resilience plan of our economy we have incorporated an ecosystem restoration programme in which the Ebro Delta, of course, has to be present. The precision of interventions in an extremely fragile and vulnerable ecosystem requires modeling a very detailed study. True, we have to let the sediments reach the end of the delta, but we must prevent highly contaminated sediments from reaching the bottoms of some of the reservoirs to which you refer, which is why the Directorate-General for Water, Confederation and Cedex are modeling what this is about. It is true that we must protect the coast, and there is already a special plan to protect the coastal edge of the Ebro Delta, but it is also true that there are interventions in which it is possible to protect and others in which it is very difficult to defend against a nature that is evolving much faster and with dynamics that are changing on the coast. We have received many allegations, many of which are repetitions of the same claim, but we want to be extraordinarily scrupulous, respectful and dialogueal as we have been since the first day, as all those who intervene in the Delta Bureau are well aware. We are waiting to be able to speak with the new Government of the Generalitat. I've been exchanging impressions this weekend with the counselor and I'm sure that this is one of the issues where we need to start working together as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIA VALENTINA MARTINEZ RARRRO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: DOES THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION THAT IS RESOLVED IN SATISFACTORY FORM THE CRISIS OPEN BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF PEDROS SÁNCHEZ AND THE KINGDOM OF MARRUECOS? [[File number 180/00571]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u48	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by Mrs María Valentina Martínez Ferro of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u49	Now you'll see what negationism is. In the next few days we can end the crisis with Morocco, you said last week. Six days later, Morocco was suspending Operation Paso del Estrecho, which is a multi-million dollar loss to Spain. They have been trying for months to hide or deny a crisis that starts with the commercial closure of Melilla, continues with the suspension of the high-level meeting, continues with the Ghali affair, which provokes an assault on the fence of Ceuta, and ends with the withdrawal of the Moroccan ambassador to Spain. Then you set in motion your famous diplomacy, so discreet that Morocco answers that there are no contacts. Minister, we don't ask you to solve the crisis anymore because you don't tip without trouble, we urge you to stop doing the ridiculous thinking you're cheating on us when what happens is that it's you who doesn't find out. Can you tell us, Mrs. Laya, what is going on with Spanish foreign policy? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u50	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u51	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, the Government has neither sought nor desired nor fuelled a crisis between Spain and Morocco, and that is why it is fully committed to looking to the future, with dialogue and in this regard, Your Honor, we are working. In recent years Spain and Morocco have been able to work on model cooperation in many areas. [[Laughter]] A model cooperation that serves to manage our interdependence, which is what we have. This interdependence, which imposes on us our closeness, has yielded very remarkable results in terms of stability and prosperity, and will continue to do so. That is why we are confident that we will continue to develop our relations and cooperation that have been so beneficial to both countries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u52	Mrs. Martínez Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u53	One listens to your answer and understands that even your cabinetmates have given it for amortized, minister. You, who were coming to bring Spain back, have made Spain irrelevant in the European Union, in the United States, in Ibero-America and in North Africa. It was you who decided to enter Ghali under false name and without informing Morocco believing that no one would know. It was you who intended to folder Operation Ghali emulating the success of Operation Delcy, an amateur's own huddle and not a foreign minister of the Kingdom of Spain. It has squandered our credibility and made it a perfect weakness. A weakness that has made them unable to obtain the support of the European Council in the conflict with Morocco, a weakness that makes Biden not only seven months without calling, but excludes Spain from its European agenda and includes it in the list of new tariffs. Spain needs a reliable, credible and respected government within and outside our borders and that, minister, is not achieved with lies or pardons. The problem is you and the solution is us. The president of my party has proposed a strategic plan for the development of Ceuta and Melilla, review the visa waiver policy with Morocco, make these cities comparable to the outermost regions and involve Frontex more actively. For this, Minister, we need to rectify with a strong, effective and sensible foreign policy that will enable us to regain good-neighbourly relations with Morocco and with the rest of our partners and allies. But you don't want solutions, you want them to be trouble. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u54	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u55	Thank you, President. We haven't talked about Delcy's suitcases in a long time, I was starting to bite the fly. [[Laughter]] On 10 March - I repeat, on 10 March - just three months ago, the People's Party in the Senate adopted together with Bildu, Esquerra, Junts, PSOE, Citizens, eight parliamentary groups, also the Canary Coalition, a motion on the grounds of the violation of the ceasefire and the escalation of hostilities in Western Sahara calling for respect for the ceasefire agreements in force since 1991. A motion in which you, with your vote, called on the Government - and I read textually - to '... actively support and facilitate in the UN, in the European Union and in the other international organizations a political solution in accordance with international law and UN resolutions, in what must constitute a policy of State away from and stripped of partisan disputes and confrontations - surprise, surprise - which in no way favor the required political solution'. Three months, Your Honor, have taken you to blow up this state policy. Your Honor, I suggest less occurrences and, please, work a little more for the common good, that of all Spaniards, with a return to a state policy. That's gonna help you... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTATE DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: IS THE GOVERNMENT REAFFIRMED IN SUPPORT OF THE UN RESOLUTION ENFORCING FOR THE FREE DETERMINATION OF THE OccidentAL SAHARA? [[File number 180/00562]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u57	Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Egun on, minister. I will ask you about that State policy to which he referred, for that motion three months ago, which is precisely what position the Government will take in the face of the situation in Western Sahara and whether it will support them by recognizing the right of self-determination of Western Sahara. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u59	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u60	Thank you, President. Egun on, Your Honor. Spain's position on the Sahara issue is a State policy - stressed by the State - and that is why it is constant. This Government has not changed this policy, and frankly it will not change it for a simple reason: because it is anchored in irrevocable principles such as the defence of multilateralism and respect for international legality, both essential pillars of our external action. By the way, Your Honor, this is the position that your political group endorsed along with eight political groups in this House in a recent motion in the Senate to which I have just referred, and which exactly calls on the Government to follow this position. This is the position we are going to follow, which is the same as what Bildu, the People's Party and other groups in this House are asking for. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u61	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u62	Thank you very much, President. Madam Minister, the People's Party, according to Mr Margallo, is already changing its mind and is asking the government to do the same. The fact is that the Sahara is currently following the break of the ceasefire in November by Morocco with that aggression and the beginning of hostilities; the recognition by the United States of Morocco's claim to the sovereignty of Western Sahara; the fact that Morocco is now putting pressure on Member States of the European Union, such as Germany or even you, or, finally, the crisis unleashed by the excuse of medical treatment to Mr. Ghali, who has assumed that Morocco has used migrants and minors as an element of depression in Ceuta. Every time we ask the Government what its position on the Saharawi issue is, they always tell us the same thing. They tell us that they are seeking a just, permanent way out and that it is mutually acceptable to the parties. This implicitly accepts the Moroccan veto to any progress, since after thirty years of the Minurso we see how Morocco does not comply with the agreement and is making it impossible for it to move forward in the holding of a referendum in Western Sahara. Spain in this is not an external actor, it is directly responsible for the situation of the Saharan people, it is the administering power of iure. That is why we ask you to be actively involved so that the Saharan people can freely decide their future, can exercise that right of self-determination. That is why we ask you what you are going to do, whether you are going to change your position - like the PP with Mr Margallo - if you are going to do as you have done so far, that this does not go with you and you are one more actor, or if you are going to engage directly in all United Nations bodies so that not only the right is recognized, but you can exercise that right to self-determination. Finally, I encourage you to recognize the Saharawi Arab Republic, as has been done by eighty-two other States. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u64	Thank you, President. I am not going to say anything about the People's Party, that is, the People's Party, because they change their minds as much as they change their jackets, that is, very often. [[Applauds]] But what I will do is remind you that Spain supports the efforts of the United Nations and its Secretary-General to find a solution. This is a constant in our external action: to support the Secretary-General in the search for a special envoy who can work with the parties to find a solution; a solution that is in accordance with the parameters set out in the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council and within the framework of the provisions in accordance with the principles and values of the Charter of the United Nations. Therefore, Your Honor, Spain's position does not differ in any way from what United Nations resolutions say. In the last of these resolutions, Resolution 2548 of 30 October last year, the United Nations Security Council renewed the mandate of the Minor for one year. This, Your Honor, is the position that Spain supports. This is the one that's been and this is the one that's going to be. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SANTAMARÍA RUIZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WILL YOU INDULATE THE GOVERNMENT TO SECTORS IN CONTRAVENTION OF THE DEFAVORABLE REPORTS OF THE SUPREME COURT AND THE TAX MINISTER? [[File number 180/00569]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u65	We turn to the questions addressed to the Minister of Justice. Question by Mr Luis Santamaría Ruiz of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this question for granted, and I will do so, Mr Campo - and believe me, I am sorry to have to tell you what I am going to say - because I do not believe in you or in your word. Minister, I cannot believe the word of a Spanish Minister of Justice who three years ago said the exact opposite of what he says now and who has also become the institutional architect of the greatest betrayal of the Spanish people that we remember. I can't, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u67	Minister for Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Santamaría, I am going to start by apologizing to you because I think I should have explained very badly the other day in the Committee on Justice when I told you that I would go to the Commission to explain the reasons, whatever they were, that I would have to take to the Council of Ministers, but not before. Although I also tell him that, maybe, it's just that he wasn't very attentive and that's why he didn't listen to what I told him. Would it seem reasonable to you that I should come here to tell you this by not complying with the law, specifically the Minister of Justice, when the law says that the minister will take a proposal that will take the form of agreement if this is denial or the form of a royal decree when a pardon of any kind is proposed? Therefore, Mr. Santamaría, don't be in a hurry, don't be nervous, don't be anxious because that clouds the reason. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u69	Mr Santamaría, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u70	Minister, I do not understand your answer. But in any case, Mr Campo, you are a very prominent minister of this government, a tariffary and desperate at the same time, who has decided to betray the Spanish people by granting pardons to the prisoners of the process against the criteria of the Prosecutor's Office, against the criteria of the Supreme Court and against the best interests of the unity of the Spanish nation in article 2 of the Constitution. I wonder very simple things. Don't you realize that if you have to choose between the law and support those who break the law, you must, without doubt, stand on the side of the Supreme Court? What does that mean by what political time is? Your Honor, it is time to support the law and to support the Supreme Court, not to support those who break the rules. Besides, I'm wondering. Why do they support this policy of self-indulgence and dialogue and referendum agreed upon when they know perfectly well that it is an impossible solution? Why do they appeal to the generosity of the Spanish people, asking for prudence and naturality, if the bet of Mr Sánchez and Mr Junqueras leads us to a dead end? For what? Why have they ceased to be in the rule of law to be outside the rule of law and the law? Mr. Campo, some of us are being frosted with blood when we see a lawyer like you trampling on the Supreme Court. The history of 20th-century Europe shows us the example of jurists who, like you, left behind their principles to serve power; jurists who passed into history in the same way as you will, Mr Campo, as one of the parents of the greatest betrayal of the Spanish people known, because betrayal is to break the unity of the Spanish nation on the basis of self-indulgence and bilateral relations. I am concerned, Minister, that the Government of Spain will come to this table of dialogue with the trousers at the height of the label area because it needs the parliamentary votes of independence and the votes... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Santamaría, I'm sure you don't understand anything. He does not understand what the Law on Pardon, the legal system and the application of laws is. I'm going to give you three blocks of ideas to see if, by systematically giving it to you, you're able to learn it better. There's no legal obstacle. As legal is the concession as the denial. The concession can be of many kinds, total or partial. The only limitation that marks the law - the law, the law, the law - is that it cannot be total with the negative report or the negative opinion of the sentencing court. The doctrine has told us, especially that of the Third Chamber, that when that report is negative, what the Government has to do if it is granted, it is to motivate. They read the 2013 ruling, by the way, of a pardon granted by the People's Party Government within the framework of the law. The Supreme Court said what it said and has set a standard. So, it's there. On the other hand, a decision is never made - they do not create a bad environment in the institutions, because that is what they are working on - either against the Prosecutor's Office or against the Supreme Court. Justice is respected and the Government strictly respects all the provisions of the Supreme Court. It fulfills its resolutions and here too it has done so - this minister has pronounced himself on many occasions - but that does not mean that there is no possibility - the Law of Pardon says - of applying the pardon when there are reasons for justice, equity or public utility. Keep that data. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENT TO RESPECT THE IMMUNITY OF EURODIPUTED? [[File number 180/000560]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u73	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u74	Thank you, President. Minister, how does the Government intend to ensure respect for the immunity recognized in Protocol No 7 in the event that MEPs Puigdemont, Comín and Ponsati decided to return to Catalonia? Do you consider this Minister and this Government that President Carles Puigdemont, Councillor Ponsatí and Councillor Comín are legitimate representatives of the citizens of Catalonia and of European citizens?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u75	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. I say this very clearly: in the same way that it respects the decisions and procedures of the European Parliament or the General Court of the European Union, in the same way that it respects the separation of powers. That is the only formula the Government has: respect. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u77	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u78	Minister, you haven't answered my question. According to the Resolution of 2 June 2021, the implementation of the decisions of the European Parliament is ordered to be suspended and, therefore, parliamentary immunity is restored to President Puigdemont and Councillors Comín and Ponsati. If we consider Protocol No 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union, Article 9 states: 'While the European Parliament is in session, its members shall enjoy: in their own national territory, the immunities accorded to the members of the Parliament of their country; in the territory of any other Member State, immunity from any measure of detention and judicial action'. In addition, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe calls on them to release political prisoners, to withdraw extradition orders from exiles and to cease the persecution of the more than 3300 reprisals. You call yourselves Democrats, but you don't recognize the outcome of the polls in Catalonia. Respect, Minister. You speak of Spain as a rule of law, but do not apply the resolutions of European justice. You are called Europeanists, but you do not recognise the European immunity of our Catalan MEPs. You are also talking about the separation of powers, but explain to me, Minister, what separation of powers President Sánchez thought when in the campaign he undertook to arrest President Puigdemont, elected and free person in Europe, less in the Kingdom of Spain. I repeat the question for you to answer and not for you to give us more evasive, Minister. How will they ensure respect for the immunity of MEPs Puigdemont, Comín and Ponsati if they decide to return to their country,Cataluña? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u79	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Nogueras, I understand that you come to play a role and develop it, but understand that I am the Minister of Justice and I have to tell you what I believe, that is respect for the procedures and decisions of justice. I believe in the separation of powers and this government exercises it every day, and that is called respect. I told you, but I'm gonna tell you something else. I remember some laws that were called disconnection, where even the president of the Generalitat, in that disconnection law, appointed the president of the highest judicial power in the community. Well, maybe we should talk for a while. I'm going to tell you very briefly what happened. I say to you that there is respect for all procedures: on 9 March 2021 the European Parliament suspended the immunity of three MEPs: Mr Puigdemont and Mr Comín and Mrs Ponsati; on 19 May an application for annulment was lodged; on 26 May this year a request for interim measures was made requesting the Vice-President of the Court to suspend Parliament's decision on immunity. That is the order which took place only a few days ago - on 2 June - where, under Article 157 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Court, it orders the suspension of such execution. This is the procedure and this Minister of Justice can only say: respect. Some decisions will like it more and others will like it less, but all have to be respected. That's worth it now, it was worth it before and it'll always be worth it. But I'm telling you one thing clearly. What I would like is for us to participate in a country project, a country project that is now talking about economic recovery, over 30 million vaccines distributed, with a huge population already immunized and vaccinated. That's the country I'm interested in, and that's where I'd like to have them. But in the meantime, let's respect court decisions. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT THE SPANISH SOCIETY DESERVES HUMMILLATION TO BE IDENTIFIED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF STATE THAT HAVE BEEN REITERED THAT THEY WILL DO IT AGAIN? [[File number 180/00565]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u81	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Campo, is your Government finally going to pardon its partners condemned for sedition and embezzlement, going beyond justice and the feeling of the vast majority of Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u83	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, you ask me whether society deserves the humiliation of being pardoned. Mrs. Arrimadas, who obeys the law does not humiliate anyone, respects the law, and the law is enforced in accordance with its possibilities and its normative scope, and this Government complies with the laws. So, I'm going to tell you one thing with all due respect for what I'm capable of. You do an exercise, in an easy pirouette loaded with a little arrogance, and you say that the opinion of society coincides with your opinion: that the decision is humiliating. For look, it is not so, because the opinion of society conveys it on many occasions and has many links to be able to do so, and precisely the last times it has been called to society do not agree very much with its opinions. Look at the polls and election results of the latest decisions in Catalonia and Madrid. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u85	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u86	Do you know what's going on? That you lie in election campaign. On October 14, 2019, Pedro Sánchez textually said: The observance of the sentence means its full fulfillment. Mrs Calvo, on 15 October, said: There will be strict respect for what this sentence entails. Even you said the same thing. What is it, Mr. Campo, that you were a vengeful girl with a desire to break the concord in 2019? Wouldn't it be better for you, both in 2019 and 2021, to do and say anything to keep yourself in power? You have no word or principle. Do you know what they have? Instinct of survival in politics, because in an election campaign they promised that they would not be pardoned, that they would criminalize the crime of illegal referendum. Do you remember? And now it's not that they defend the pardon because they think it's the solution to nothing. What happens is that in the election campaign they need the vote of the Spaniards to get to Moncloa, and now they need the vote of these gentlemen to stay in it. Look, you can't give a pardon to someone who doesn't regret it, who takes out his chest and says he's going to do it again. We have taken forty years of divestitures of nationalism, which always end badly. But you know what, Mr. Campo? That no assignment of competences is as serious as giving them reason, because forgivings delegitimize everything they have done: that they have broken families, that they have ruined Catalonia, that they insult us every day on TV3 and that they indoctrinate in schools. Why do you want to reward them? What about the Catalan constitutionalists? Are we invisible? Don't we exist? Or to us, directly, to be left behind! What happens, that we must accept, resigned, that the Government of Spain will resell us by four votes in Congress? Is that it? And to top it off, you do it in the middle of the pandemic. They have not pardoned the quota to the self-employed nor have they pardoned the taxes to the SMEs or the families - the most expensive bill of light in history -. No, no, With you there is always a prize for those who leap the laws and there is always a punishment for those who fulfill them. Finally, I'll tell you, it's not going to be good for you, Mr. Campo. And I will tell the separatists: in 2017 I told them that they did not underestimate Spain, that it was a much stronger country than you believed. And today I say to you: do not confuse our democracy with Pedro Sánchez because, fortunately, it is much more and will prevail. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u87	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, after hearing you, I think I take the idea that you are not in favour of any pardon being granted. [[Rumors]] It's clear to me. But what is not clear to me is what you intend to do, what you intend to propose to restore the enormous wounds that exist in Catalan society from some Catalans against others and from Catalonia with Spain, because that is what I would like to hear. Because that is the mission of a Government: to promote conditions that can allow for better coexistence. And that aside from the concrete people who can embody this. Do you have any doubt that this government did not support 155 when it had to? Don't lose the north. That's clear. What happens is that you have to look forward, especially because you have a country project that is based on coexistence. And coexistence is a project that goes far beyond restoring the integrity of the country. The territorial unity of our country was restored in fifty-six seconds, a very quick thing. But for social wounds it is necessary to work a lot, because we have to do it every day, and if we don't put the best of ourselves and we don't have the generosity to be able to do it, we're not going to go as a society. I hope that you will repent and support us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u89	Thank you very much. - THE DEPUTY DON CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: CAN YOU GUARANTEE AS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE THAT THE GOVERNMENT WILL NOT PLAY TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PARLIAMENT RELATING TO THE PRESENCE OF THE EXERCISE IN CATALUNIA? [[File number 180/00568]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u90	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u91	Thank you, Madam President, with your veneration. Minister, the President of the Parliament of Catalonia has asked the Army to abandon its Barcelona headquarters, and reaffirms itself in the challenge launched by separatism against constitutional legality in October 2017. It is happening that this Government is willing to cross all boundaries by pardoning people convicted of very serious crimes, who say they would do so again. There will be more people trying to break up our coexistence - to which the Minister of Justice referred precisely - over and over again, because they believe that they enjoy impunity and that delinquency comes free to them, Minister. In 2012 you, as judge, signed, with two hundred more judges, the manifesto entitled "The pardon as fraud", and said the following: With a pardon for purposes other than those of the law, the Government breaks down the division of powers and usurps the role of the judiciary, transferring to the judiciary an unequivocal message of contempt, and intends to place it in a subordinate position in the constitutional order. When did you change your mind, Minister? So soon? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u92	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I do not know what statements you are referring to by the President of Parliament, I do not know. As far as I know, the President of the Parliament of Catalonia has no competence in the matter of the Army. But don't worry that there will be no one, I repeat, no one who defends the Army more, who feels more proud of the Army throughout Spain than I, as Minister of Defense. I'm sorry I didn't hear a single compliment from the 120,000 men and women who are in the army, every day, with the citizens, in the most difficult places, sacrificing their lives and valuing our freedoms. I am very sorry that the People's Party does not defend our army, despite asking a question in that regard. Don't worry, here you will have the Minister of Defense and this government defending the Army anywhere in Spain, because they deserve it and because they are great. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u94	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u95	Minister, with all due respect, in the People's Party we are proud of our Armed Forces, but we would also like to be proud of a government that complies with the law and does not pardon those who say they would do it again. [[Applauds]] We'd like to be proud. Do you agree with those pardons, yes or no? It's very easy, say it, you have that great opportunity now because, as our spokesman said, who is silent, grants, Your Honor. He is missing a great opportunity today to affirm here, loud and clear, that these pardons cannot be produced. And believe me, I'm sorry, Your Honor. And he hasn't said what he knows, I wish he'd say it now. You know that the right of grace cannot be used for political purposes, that not everything is worth keeping in power, that it is a Fraud to pardon with a report against the Supreme Court and with the report against the Prosecutor's Office, that it is not about revenge or revenge, but rather it is about complying with the law, with article 9 of the Constitution, with the principle of legality, because we are all subject to the legal order. You know that there are no conditions for pardon, no justice, no fairness, no general interest, the Minister of Justice lies, there are no such conditions as the law requires, Your Honor. And you know that you can never pardon those who are willing to reoffend the crime and proudly presume that you would do it again. Minister, don't put your silence above your values, comply with the law and respect the law. Fight for it, Your Honor. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u96	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Don't be like that, don't skimp on the Army, since you're asking me about the Army, which is going to be anywhere in Spain. But believe me, I tell you with the utmost respect, from someone who's been working for justice for more than thirty years. You now present yourselves as the champions of justice. Mr. Married, why are you blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary? [[Applauds]] That's important, that's important. You are blocking the renewal of the judiciary, you are blocking the renewal of institutions, of the Constitutional Court. Do you believe that you can give us lessons from the sense of justice when, most importantly, the renewal of institutions, do not? You speak of respect for the courts, for the decisions of the courts, and what respect is there when you are blocking, for purely partisan reasons, the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary? Make sense of state, you have to make sense of state, opposition is part of state. Do not play with justice, do not use pardons, do not hold hostage the General Council of the Judiciary. When you do, then you will have moral authority to talk about other issues. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WILL YOU CONTINUE FACILITATING THE COUPLE AGAINST VOX HOW DID YOU RECENTLY DO THIS? [[File number 180/00573]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u98	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Will it continue to facilitate harassment against VOX, as it has recently done in Ceuta?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u100	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Gil Lazarus. Look, I could expect this question from your honor, but I didn't want to. I am aware of his lack of scruples, his lack of ethics, his lack of values developed during a professional and political career of more than forty years. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] But you who like so much to patriminate the Civil Guard and the National Police, who are of all the Spaniards, not only of VOX, of the parliamentarians of VOX, with this question what you are doing is questioning the professionalism of the Police and of the Civil Guard, as likely to assume hypothetical orders of an illegal nature. That could happen at some other time. Trust in the professionalism of the Police and the Civil Guard. When we go to Ceuta, when we are in Ceuta, the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year, is to guarantee and restore security and normality. Others don't know what they're going to Ceuta. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u102	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u103	Thank you, Madam President. I told him once and I repeat it today. Between your trajectory and mine, as far as coherence and loyalty to some principles are concerned, I beat you for a score, Minister. [[Applauds]] Second, let's go to the facts, to the facts. VOX won the general election in Ceuta. Abascal went to Ceuta to fulfil his duty to be next to a population frightened by the invasion organized by Morocco, thanks to his incompetence and the weakness of this Government. However, on a premeditated basis, VOX was deprived of fundamental rights, with the connivance of all local political forces, starting with the People's Party. The government delegate, rather than fulfilling her duty as guarantor of the exercise of fundamental rights, was interested in acting as the mother of Mr Sánchez's head of communication in Ferraz, preventing VOX from demonstrating because a gang of thugs had announced that it would cause incidents. However, these thugs could concentrate, go to the doors of the hotel where VOX held its press conference, try to penetrate violently and assault the police; thugs that it is very easy to deduce who could summon them to immobilize them, according to what they shouted: 'Allah is great' and 'Pedro Sánchez president'. Minister, in short, one more chapter of the government's campaign against VOX made of lies, montages and aggressions, and of which you handle the threads in the shadow, as has already happened in Vallecas. That's why, as far as they are concerned, next Sunday thousands of Spanish people without complexes will be protesting in Columbus against the pardons of the coup, but much more against a government that is betraying democracy and Spain, a government that last week perpetuated its most disgusting daring: photographing itself in the replica of the zulo in which its partner Otegi and the criminal gang to which he belonged tortured Ortega Lara. How disgusting, how infamy, and how vile! Now, to be silly. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u104	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lázaro, I'm going to start as you've finished: how disgusting and infamy! You only articulate two verbs: lying and defaming, that's what your political activity consists of. Your political activity wants to transfer you supposedly this government of Unity Podemos and the Socialist Party, but you are defaming public officials, public officials who like this Minister of the Interior have worked more than thirty years with different political parties, but as an official, with principles of neutrality. You have been involved with institutions such as those in Basque, Basque Country, in terms of prison transfers, you have been involved with prison officials in terms of transfers, because they allegedly obeyed illegal orders. You - and I repeat this again - are also accusing the police and the Civil Guard of allegedly taking illegal orders. The civil servants of this country act under the principles of neutrality, regardless of the colour of the Government; the Government establishes policies: criminal policies - in my case -, policies against corruption, against organized crime, terrorism, but always in parameters of neutrality. Do not question public officials... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. - BY JOAQIN ROBLES LÓPEZ, BY THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING: WHY DOES THE GOVERNMENT PERMIT THE KEY OF THE EQUALITY OF SPAIN IN THE ASSESSMENT OF BACHILLERATO FOR ACCESS TO UNIVERSITY? [[File number 180/00574]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u107	Question addressed to the Minister for Education and Vocational Training. Question by Mr Joaquín Robles López, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u108	Thank you, President. Why does the Government allow the failure of the equality of the Spaniards in the test of access to university?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u109	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. No, Mr Robles, the government does not allow this; the treatment to preserve equal opportunities is to adapt to the exceptional conditions of the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u111	Mr. Robles.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u112	Madam Minister, are the exceptional conditions different according to the Autonomous Community in question? Because in nine autonomous communities, as affected by the pandemic as the others, it turns out that they can go to this test with one or two suspended subjects, while in the rest they have to approve them all. Can you explain if this does not constitute an absolute violation of article 14 of the Constitution, which establishes the equality of all Spaniards? Since it is a single university district, it is logical that all pupils have the same conditions when competing for a place in the various faculties of the State; it makes no sense for some pupils to go with two subjects suspended and others not. Moreover, it is even more contrary to the principle of equity - which you mention hundreds of times in the Lomlou - that these tests are determined by the autonomous communities themselves, and that they are also of different levels of difficulty. There is a cry among students from many autonomous communities who check how in some autonomous communities the exam is truly ridiculous, compared to the type of exam they have to do. I know exactly what the role of the ministry is, but I suppose they are not fulfilling it here, and it is to guarantee the constitutional principle, also reflected in the Lomlou, of equity in education. Here there is an absolute lack of justice, and the Spanish citizens who aspire to go to university are becoming second-rate citizens, if we compare what happens in nine autonomous communities where students compete with two suspended subjects, while in the rest they have to approve everything. This lack of equity is inescapable and you cannot rely on exceptionality, because exceptional circumstances occur equally throughout the nation. Or is it that the sequels of COVID are more important in Madrid or less important in Extremadura? Isn't the exceptional situation for everyone? And if it is exceptional for everyone, why does there not exist the same test of access to the university, why does there not exist the same meaning, the same criterion for everyone? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u113	Minister for Education and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u114	Mr. Robles, the exam for EBAY is unique, but not accurate, and the reasons are as follows. I think you know him, but first you will have to bear all the consequences of what an autonomous state, a complex state, means. The test includes not only the part of the Government, but also the part of the autonomous communities. Autonomous communities have curricular competence. This is the reason, and we are precisely following the regulatory regulation of the EBAU established by the previous government. A new regulation will come in at the time when the Lomlou applies in that matter - and that will be next year - but for now we are with the royal decree of 2016, as appropriate. This EBAY is, as I say, unique, but not accurate, and it has the acquiescence of all the autonomous communities for the test, of the government and of the CRUE. This is the test that's going on. But I have to tell you more, we are in a baccalaureate with a great exceptionality: a baccalaureate first in which the educational institutions were closed in March, and a baccalaureate second in which semi-presence has been maintained. Adapting to circumstances, not uniformity, has allowed us to keep the centres open and to promote students, with the effort of all. This is an issue that I am convinced you respect. It is perfectly regulated in the Royal Decree-Law of 29 September 2020 and validated by this House, it has all the legal guarantees and, of course, all the confidence of professionals who have estimated that these students can go to EBAU with the acquired degree. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u115	Thank you very much. - OF MR CARLOS GARCIA ADANERO, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: DOES THE GOVERNMENT DEFEND THE RIGHT OF SELF-DETERMINATION? [[File number 180/00564]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u116	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Carlos García Adanero, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that, as a Spaniard and a Democrat, I am a little embarrassed by others to see how the Spanish Government is appealing to a sedition convict, such as Mr Junqueras. On the part of Catalan nationalism, and also Basque nationalism, it has been said that they maintain and demand the right of self-determination, and the Government of Spain says that the limits to any negotiation are set by the Constitution. So the question is: does the Spanish Government understand that the right of self-determination is part of the Constitution? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u118	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u119	Thank you, President. No, no, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u120	Mr. García Adanero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u121	The truth is, I didn't expect another answer. What I don't understand is, then, everything else. If on the part of nationalism it is said that the right of self-determination is irrefutable, and we are being told that you are going to set up a table to talk about it, and it turns out that the Government has a clear position, as it cannot be otherwise, and it says that no, then are you laughing at the whole of the Spanish? All that's going on is to fool the Spaniards? It's just that, in the end, people are going to be pardoned, and what they're going to get is they're going to turn politicians who were imprisoned into political prisoners, because they're giving them the reason. That means leaving half of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia orphaned, and in turn, what they do is put the entire Spanish judicial system and all the judicial guarantees in question. And what answer is given to that? It is said that we must be brave and that we must trust Pedro Sánchez. Let's see, if Pedro Sánchez lies to himself, how he's gonna trust him. As for courage, the Vice-President of the Government said today: be brave and look into the eyes of no one. Hey, you know what it's like to be brave? If one visits Ortega Lara's zulu, being brave is to go the next day and tell Bildu to break his covenants with them, and ask them how they could allow that, and tell them how they could say - after having locked him up for five hundred thirty-two days - that after the drunkenness comes the hangover. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And the hangover was the kidnapping and murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco. How, after all that, one can be president of the Government of Spain with those votes. And how can that be done and not ask them to condemn ETA terrorism. That's being brave, not taking the picture and then going to South America. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u122	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u123	Thank you very much, President. They said to me, "Miquel, you're naive. Because I had prepared an answer to your question, but I see that your lordship's self-determination must be interested in a pepper. Anyway, I am not going to deprive myself of commenting on the issue. For those interested in the right of self-determination, there is a very useful source of information, which is the United Nations website, the agency in New York. They have a website explaining how the right to self-determination of peoples is implemented, following the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. For your information, I will tell you that in 1960 there were 64 countries or territories in which this principle was to be applied; in 2021 there are 17 remaining and none of them belong to Spain. Therefore, there is no self-determination either by international law or, of course - as you said - by domestic law, by our Constitution, which clearly proclaims the form of State, its territorial structure and the process by which we exercise all our rights within the framework of democracy and the law. But it seems that his lordship wanted to talk about other things. Look, my question is: are the laws to be enforced, yes or no? Do you want to comply with the law of pardon, which is fully in force in Spain, yes or no? At the time when the Government takes a decision it will - the Minister of Justice has explained - apply criteria of justice, fairness and public utility. It will then be when you will be able to express your opinion whether the Government has used these criteria properly, and the decision it takes at the time has been properly substantiated. For those who have more doubts about self-determination - I already thought that this was not the same question, because it coincided with the content of an inquiry that recently supported, at the request of the People's Unity Candidacy Group -, I tell you - for those who may have doubts and think that the United Nations lists are like the list of the purchase of the English Court - that there is a United Nations resolution that says that any attempt to break totally or partially the national unity or territorial integrity of a country, or the political unity of sovereign and independent States... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JOSÉ IGNACIO ECHÁNIZ SALGADO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: DOES THE MINISTER PRESENT TO IMPULSE ANY REAL UTILITY MEASURES TO MAKE EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF COVID-19'S PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/000570]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u125	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr José Ignacio Echaniz Salgado, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, are you going to take some smart action or are you going to remain installed in chaos?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u127	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Echaniz, many have been the tremendously important and useful measures to encircle the virus, including the greatest success, the greatest vaccination campaign in this country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u129	Mr. Echaniz.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u130	Minister, the virus has caused fear in Spanish society, but you have also generated uncertainty and anguish. We'll all be remembered for something tomorrow. Pedro Sánchez, the one from 'we have overcome the virus' or'stronger exits', for managing this pandemic with electoral criteria by refusing to wear; Mr Illa, the one from 'I regret nothing', for abandoning his responsibility in the middle of the pandemic to now become a florist in Catalonia, and you for being the least credible minister in history, despite being the fourth Minister of Health in three years. Ladies and gentlemen, leadership and trust are essential in epidemics, two terms you do not know. First they failed, then they left the autonomous communities without managing ad hoc legislation, and now they are trying to impose legislation with pride and pre-potence. It is enough that you have advised a certain type of second dose so that 95% of Spaniards have chosen the opposite. In terms of personal referendum you have fewer votes than the Socialist Party in Madrid. Simply have you manipulated the system of choice and selection of Spanish residents - MIR, FIR, BIR, etc. - for having ruined a system that had worked perfectly for fifty years, and facing all health professionals. It is enough for you to impose measures against the Autonomous Communities in the Official Gazette to receive another judicial strike, and to make the ridiculous step backwards. It is enough for the European Union to demand coherence so that the People's Party, which has been calling for control at airports for the past year, can be made even more valuable. By the way, do you guarantee Spanish families that all teenagers are vaccinated before the course starts in September? Do you guarantee that you will attend this Congress before September, because it has been three months since you attended? Your Honor, you're a stick on the Spanish health wheel. Madam Minister, I ask you something that may surprise you: In view of what you have seen, I urge you to go on vacation. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u131	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Echaniz, the truth is that, in the face of the biggest health crisis this country has had, this government has not only faced a war against the virus, but a war against you permanently, because its aim has not been to go by the hand of the government and help it, but only to overthrow it and to go against it, in an attitude of permanent harassment and destruction. We have never found in his party a hand stretched out, but on the contrary. This minister, this government and also my predecessor have been fighting against the virus at the hands of the autonomous communities since the co-governance, of course with successes and mistakes, of course, because we entered without a charter of navigation, but above all what we have found has been harassment and destruction. Do you know what I'm telling you, Mr. Echaniz? You speak of imposition, but you know well what imposition is. This minister is with her hand stretched out; she doesn't mind taking a step back, and we have to take many steps forward. It is true that seeking consensus is not easy, but in any case, you have asked me what measures we have taken: strategic reserve, acquisition of sanitary material for all autonomous communities, sequencing, tracing, integration into surveillance, clinical trials and, more importantly, vaccination campaign, a successful campaign that you do not like to talk about. It is a successful country campaign, because vaccination goes like a shot, despite you, that all you have done is put sticks on the wheels. The vaccination campaign is going like a shot, and the figures are spectacular. [[Applauds]] Yesterday we exceeded 20 million citizens with at least one dose, 42% of the population, and 11.2 million Spanish citizens already have a full schedule, Your Honor. Spain leads, thanks to the strategy of the European Union, to the leadership of the Government of Spain, with Pedro Sánchez, and to the work of the autonomous communities and, of course, of health professionals. In relation to the RIMs, within the legal framework, because we have a law that requires telematically, we are moving on the right path with all of them: four hundred per day, ladies and gentlemen, with days... [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado utters words that are not perceived]] All right, of course, but let's hope it stays that way, because we care, they're the backbone of the National Health System. And you know what I'd tell you for once, Mr. Echaniz? That will add to the country's hope and pride, because what we have for the vaccination campaign is pride and hope. Yours is disaster and permanent boycott. [[Applauds]] - the Minister of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration: why is it engaged in obstructing the transfer of the management of the vital minimum income to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and to the Foral Community of Navarra, set out in the fifth additional provision of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2020? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00561]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u133	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, why is it hindering the transfer of minimum vital income to the Basque and Navarra countries?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u135	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Barandiaran, under no circumstances is our aim or attitude to hinder. On the contrary, we have been working with you, at the various stages that have involved interaction with the Basque Government in assuming for itself what is laid down in the fifth additional provision of the Minimum Life Income Act, always in the absolute spirit of reaching an agreement, with the will of cooperation and that in the end the result is that which we seek on both sides. In no case do I interpret our attitude in the terms in which you put it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u137	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u138	Minister, you have sent a proposal to the Basque Government whose adviser on Public Governance and Self-Government has described as unacceptable, and the reason is no other than to check that, unlike the agreement and what the law itself says, you intend to retain for your ministry and the State, therefore, functions and services which form part of the substantive content of the minimum living income, of that non-contributory benefit of the Social Security System which is therefore part of the economic system of Social Security referred to in Article 18.2 of the Statute of Self-Government of the Basque Country. If it is already serious to attempt to leave the transfer without content, according to the fifth additional provision of the law, it is more deliberate to ignore it than for its implementation, that is, for the execution of these powers, as the Constitutional Court has already said repeatedly, it is also necessary to transfer all the necessary material and human means; and not only the transfer of some of the functions linked to the recognition of the minimum income vital, minister, but all of them, including those relating to the payment of the benefit that unjustifiably seeks to retain for itself in that proposal, and of course, without it being able to mediate, as also happens, any control or control activity, as if the Basque administration could be held subordinate to another. Mr Escrivá, I am serious about this: your attitude damages not only the credibility of the agreements reached with your Government and your ministry, but above all the Basque citizens, and especially the most disadvantaged, who deserve the best social policy offered today in the State. Mr Escrivá, we have already been eight months late in transferring minimum living income. Do not further hinder the transfer of minimum vital income. Be aware that it also has implications for the economic concert, and comply with the status of autonomy, Minister, because the opposite, and I also say this very seriously, would mean a breach of trust with your ministry. Mr Escriva, please react and be aware of the consequences of your attitudes as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u139	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u140	Mr Barandiaran, I will read out to you what the fifth additional provision, which you voted for, which we voted for almost the whole of the House, says. It says exactly the following: 'Because of the specificity of the existence of foral estates, the autonomous communities of foral regime will assume in reference to their territorial scope the corresponding functions and services that in this royal decree law are attributed to the National Institute of Social Security in relation to the non-contributory economic benefit of the Social Security of the minimum living income'. That is exactly what you have on the table with our proposal: all the powers of the National Social Security Institute. What happens is that in the Minimum Life Income Act there are things that the INSS does not do, that do other instances of the ministry, and we are even willing to talk about them, even if they are not here. That is, we are going further than the fifth additional provision says. For example, according to the proposal we have made to you, the Lanbide will fully recognise the benefits in the Basque area, which is not exactly what it says here, and we are willing to go as far as that. Your Honor, what must matter to you and to us, and we will certainly agree on this, is that the solution is the best for Basque citizens, so that in the end, having the GIR and the minimum living income, you receive an offer of comprehensive services as friendly as possible and that it can be extended as much as possible throughout the Basque Country. In the meantime, we are working in many areas: for example, there are already 15,000 households that have received the minimum living income in the Basque Country and 4000 in Navarre, and we have done so jointly by the two administrations; we are already talking about 20,000 households that receive the minimum living income. Those areas of collaboration are complete and intense, and we will certainly also agree on this. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u141	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u142	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. First of all, urgent appeal by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service on unconstitutionality appeals against laws passed by the Basque and Navarra Parliaments. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for her defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u143	Thank you, President, Eskerrik asko. Egun on, good morning. Mr Iceta, Minister Iceta, Basque law on environmental protection: appealed and annulled. Navarra Universal Health Care Act... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u144	Excuse me, Mrs. Aizpurua. I ask for a little silence, please: the control session continues. [[Pause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u145	Thank you. Navarra universal health care law: appealed and annulled. Basque housing law: appealed and annulled. Navarra law on pharmaceutical co-payment: rescinded and annulled. Basque law against fracking: appealed and annulled. Navarra law against evictions: appealed and annulled. And so, so, up to thirty laws appealed in the last ten years; many of them totally or partially annulled, and some still pending a judicial decision. Minister, this has been the course of action of the Spanish Government not only for the last ten years, but for the last forty years, since the statutes of autonomy were approved: remedies of unconstitutionality against laws passed by majority in the Basque and Navarro parliaments, laws of clear social and economic content that entailed improvements in the lives of Basques and Basques. Forty years of resistance to our decisions, forty years in which sovereignty and self-government have systematically been attacked, four decades in which Basque society has seen how their progress in social, economic, political, cultural or linguistic rights was impeded; forty years in which both PP and PSOE governments have prevented social progress by resorting to and nullifying many of these laws that made these progress possible, progress that, by the way, were denied to us, we were denied to the Basques, but that later, with years of delay and less reach, are sometimes coming to this State. Anyone would think that progress can only be made when the Spanish Government allows it, when in the form of a colony they give us their permission, and that, therefore, it is not a question of competition, but of superiority and political control. Mr Iceta, Minister Iceta, what harm can it do to the Spanish Government that Basques and Basques see their subjective right to housing recognised, for example? What prejudice does it cause the women officials, the Basque officials, to have decent salaries and conditions? What harm does it do that we have laws and measures to better care for and protect the environment and our territory? And what harm does it do to try to make up for our seniors' pharmaceutical copayment? What harm does all this do? The truth is that, in our view, it has very little justification, and little reasoning can be given to ensure that the Government after the Government is committed to preventing these improvements. That's what Basque citizenship asks when it sees how issues that affect the day-to-day life of Basque citizens are laid on the ground. And the only answer that can be assumed is that it is done out of fear, out of fear, out of fear that more and more Basques, and more and more mostly, will see that when decisions are made from our own institutions, the more instruments we have to respond to the challenges that are presented to us as a society and the more capacity for self-government, in short, the better it will be for us. That is what we consider and think, that our future well-being will be better guaranteed if we decide what and how we want to build our society, rather than if we remain bound to this state, and, above all, to our economic and social future. I believe that this is the great fear underlying this state and in some way this is our conviction and also our strength, because, Mr.Iceta, in the most decentralized state in Europe, as you like to say, it turns out that we cannot take our own decisions or our own political or social measures, not even in the midst of a global pandemic. It is happening, we continue to use the courts, we continue to use justice to remind ourselves that we are actually subject to Madrid, to what is decided from here, that from here we decide what is best for Basque society, without taking into account what that society and its legitimate representatives think or want. And I assure you that this is a majority feeling in that society. Minister Iceta, this state still has tics, accused authoritarian tics and centralizers. In some ways, it is the essence of much of its history and perhaps it will probably be the source of it. We know that, and we see all this in the inability to resolve the conflicts that this State maintains with the peripheral nations that we live with in it. We also see this in the inability to respect the majority wills of those territories, such as the laws passed by parliaments. We see it in the management of the pandemic and how to make those decisions. And we don't have to go very far, this past week, last weekend we saw it with the unilateral imposition of the Ministry of Health. They are tics, demands that, even when they boast of co-governance and dialogue, I think they overcome them, because they always end up repeating themselves; again and again the same mistakes are repeated, decade after decade, year after year. So far our criticisms, because, in addition to pointing out what is happening in our opinion and warning of the conflict, what we would really like to do would be to start a path towards a solution to this. We would like to focus on opening up a new time of recognition, respect and agreement, in which politics is opened up in front of the courts and words are opened up in front of judgments. You, who are considered progressive, who are part of this government, will agree with me that policies that seek to improve the lives of the working class, the people's classes, the laws that bet on aid and that dignify the social majority must always be defended, and they must also be extended, whether in the Basque Parliament or in the Navarro Parliament or in this Congress. This is how we act, out of solidarity, out of internationalism and because we will always push to improve the lives of Basques and Basques, and as long as we are here we will also do the same, we will push to advance in improving the lives of the workers of this State. I would also like to know whether you share this principle, because, now, Mr Iceta, you are the Minister for Territorial Policy of the Government of Spain and you have in your hands the possibility of changing this policy which has been practiced for so many years against the decisions of Parliaments and you have the possibility of moving towards a new real bilateral relationship based on recognition and respect for our institutions, our Government and our decision-making capacity, a new relationship of the same same as ending once and for all with these grievances to which I have referred. That is why, today, we would like you to make a clear commitment to Basque society that your Government will not again use the unconstitutionality remedy against our laws, that you have renounced this judicial process and will bet on the political path, that the disagreements will be resolved through dialogue and bilateral agreement, in the end that you will not question the decisions that our parliaments take in a democratic and majority way, but will respect them. Now, when you speak of dialogue, of respect, of solutions, it is time that, in addition to speaking, you practiced it. It is time to open a democratic cycle that gives solutions to all this, a new time that ends with the inertias of what was tied up in 1978 and which still has many knots to untie. We know that you believe in the ability to self-governance our societies, you believe in plurinationality, as you have said more than once, and you believe in respect for the majority will of nations. Today, as a first step in this new direction, we ask you to respect the majority will expressed through our parliaments, committing yourself, as I said, not to resort to justice against our laws, never to a court ever again deciding on our lives, on our progress as a society, never to a judge ever again cutting them rights. That's what we're asking you today. We are facing a historic crossroads, Mr. Iceta. Audacity is needed and the will expressed in words must be demonstrated with deeds. If you take this path, have no doubt that we will meet there. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u147	Thank you very much, President. Even though we all do that once in a while of thanking the tone, it's always seemed like a cursy movie to me, with forgiveness. What I want to thank you for starting my speech is what I felt was a sincere desire for dialogue. You ask me for a commitment that I cannot and will not acquire. And I want to explain it, because I believe that respect is part of sincerity, of recognizing the other and of telling the truth about what we think. You're part of an assumption that's not happening in this country right now. The assumption is that the autonomous parliaments are sovereign; you have said it many times, you have said it in the tweet in which you announced this interpellation. We could only accept that expression if the nuance is being said within the law. That is to say, I cannot undertake not to appeal in cases where an autonomous Parliament adopts a law which the legal services of the State consider to be in breach of their powers or in the extreme case - fortunately, there has been very little - of a violation of a fundamental right or freedom. These are the cases in which an appeal is brought. But that is certainly an opinion on its part, and it does not need to coincide with the opinion of the other side, of that Parliament, of that Legislative Assembly, which has taken a decision in full conviction that it is using its powers properly. What I am committed to, and I am doing so, as all the Ministers for Territorial Policy of this Government have done, is to always try the agreement first, and then I will give you some figures on what that effort has achieved. Moreover, we have at some point achieved a certain novelty, which has occurred - coincidences of life - while I have been a minister, and that is that for the first time the agreement has not meant the change of the autonomous law, but the modification of the state law. Really, it is a path that has been used very little and on which we should work more. Therefore, I cannot accept the commitment that your honor demands of me, but I must go along the path that I have seen as drawing too. Everyone is a child of what he is, and I believe in all those things that you have said and even in some other, but I also believe in the rule of law, in the need to respect the law, and that does not prevent plurinationality or self-government or the best service to the interests of the citizens of Navarre, the Basque Country or any community. Therefore, when I find that my services or the competent ministry tell me that such a rule that has been approved by the Legislative Assembly is not within their competence, my first obligation is always to look, and my second obligation is to seek the opinion of the Council of State. The obligation that we impose before filing the appeal - the law that regulates the Constitutional Court - is reflected in its article 33.2 - is to see whether an agreement is possible. There have been agreements of all kinds, interpretative, there have been many resources that have not even come to exist thanks to the dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities. So, we're going to push on that path. I will give you some figures, because it seems to me very good that you, as a good Member, say that the words are very good but that here what counts are the facts, the acts, the decisions. In the period 2016-2018 the majority of discrepancies ended in the filing of an appeal, 53 times went to the Constitutional Court; in the period beginning in June 2018 the majority of discrepancies have ended in agreement, in 125 cases the appeal has been avoided. To put it another way, from 2016 to 2018 more than half of the discrepancies ended in appeal; since Pedro Sánchez is president of the government, more than two thirds of the discrepancies end in agreement. But you're right, and you've given a figure that I'm sure it's true. If I remember correctly, he says that in ten years there have been thirty resources. Surely, but I do not think I am wrong, even though in some years the Government was not the current one, if I say that there have been many more discrepancies than resources; in our case, in our time it has been so. Then, someone might say that there is a temptation to immobilism, re-centralizing. Your Honor, I have had some joys in my political life - many, because it is long - and a recent one has been to be able to culminate in the transfer of competences as relevant as those relating to prisons to the Basque Country, which had not been produced by a misfortune that we all know and which fortunately Basque society has been able to overcome. But it's just that the other day, too, I got a surprise. I'm going to Navarra, to a transfer board meeting to transfer a competition, in this case of prison health, and I find that for twenty years there has been no transfer to Navarra. At first I thought it was about that sometimes when you make the note you put 2 instead of 1; no, twenty years ago. Moreover, both in the Basque Country and in Navarre - I allude to these two communities because they are to which his lordship referred - we are already in place for new meetings of the Transfer Commission before the end of the year. Is that enough? Probably for someone who defends the political project of EH Bildu is not enough. You think of another kind of relationship or even of non-relationship with the State; it seems to me that you have spoken of non-subordination. But we're in a state of autonomy. You say - I'm sorry I'm now perhaps a little pessimistic - that in 1978 everything was tied up. I do not know if we will be able to see it either you or I, or the two of us together, but I often think of whether today in this House we would be able to make such an open and progressive constitution as the one that the constituents gave us in 1978; I would say that I would like to. And I must also say that the Socialist Party in this area has the duties done. We owe it to a lot of people, but I like to remember here today Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba. We are probably the only party, unless I know of it, that has defined a possible constitutional reform that would perhaps resolve some of the issues that your honor has raised, but we are also very aware that, if there is not a sufficient majority in the House, we cannot reform the Constitution; indeed, we must not reform the Constitution. So, it's true that that can limit. However, there are no limits to the path of agreements. We have just heard the Minister of Inclusion say that he is willing to go beyond the concrete literality of the law regulating minimum living income. That is what I would like to see left of this question, because, as you know, almost the most relevant thing is the motion that your group will then put forward, the debate that can be established and the agreements that can be reached in the House, establishing a criterion that seems to me to be basic. We rather than a resource prefer an agreement, although we are aware that it is not always possible; and we dedicate a lot of time to them, many hours. Let's keep going. You are concerned about laws that have been appealed. For example, I know that for EH Bildu, if I have not been misinformed, there is a very special interest in the General Budgets Act of Navarre for 2021, on which an amendment, I believe, from his group, introduced a precept which has then been appealed. Your Honor, the last meeting we have had on this matter is on 3 June, and I must tell you that today, in view of that meeting, in the ministry we believe that there will be agreement, because there has been a great deal of rapprochement. The truth is that I am in favour of agreements and consensus, and I would say that even when there is unanimity. On the Board of Transfers of the Foral Community of Navarra-not all communities have it - there is presence of all groups. The negotiation is bilateral - yes, no one is frightened; the negotiations between the Government of Spain and the autonomous governments are bilateral, because the law says so - but there is the circumstance that the opposition parties are in Navarre and not only the Governments of Spain and Navarre. The transfer agreement was adopted unanimously the other day. It made me very excited, because I think we should always look for that and that's what we're going to do. There is another law in which we believe that there is also room for agreement - it seems to me that you have even referred literally to it - which is the Navarra's Foral Law on Local Finance. Let us do this and we are optimistic about it. We still don't have the deal, but we've come a long way. However, we have not been able to reach an agreement in a law whereby a colleague of his or hers - if I remember correctly - also asked me in the Senate: the New Outing. There was no agreement there. I will also tell you that there has been no agreement yet, because we, even when resources have been raised, continue to negotiate to see if we can give them up. It is true that we sometimes use the expression 'judicialization of politics' in a somewhat open or overly generous way. Bringing one thing to the Constitutional Court is not judicializing in the sense that we usually give it. But we can avoid resorting to the umpire - which is what I like to call the Constitutional Court - and we prefer it, because that makes it possible for politics to gain space and also for us to download to the Constitutional Court work that may not be strictly its own. We're going to go that way. Let us recognize that it is a composite State, that there are various levels of government and that conflicts must be resolved through the agreement, but, if there is no agreement, we must inevitably resort to the arbitrator, who is ultimately the one who has to decide. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus. [[The Lord]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u149	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I appreciate the tone, too, and I don't think it's funny to say it. I thank you for the tone and I thank you for the words, but I'm a little sorry you didn't explain what I wanted to hear. I would have liked it to be very explicit to say: We are not going to continue to resort to the Constitutional Court. But, well, you've left a margin for the deal. He spoke of some examples. For starters, he has said that there has been no agreement in some cases, such as on the topic of Fuero Navarro. He said 'yet' there was no agreement. What happens is that that'still' in this Congress scares me a little. You can dilate the time a lot. We don't know how far that'still' will go, but I'm glad you leave that glimpse of hope. I would like to put to you this question which so clearly exemplifies what you were denouncing. The Fuero Navarro was unanimously approved in the Navarro Parliament; that is, you - the Socialist Party - also approved it. It is curious, however, that it is not respected after having adopted it unanimously in the Navarro Parliament. I'm referring to all this when I was telling him everything I was saying. You have spoken about constitutional reform and, of course, of course that constitutional reform is necessary, because it is clear that the Constitution is now acting as a corset that is tightening too much. I think it's obvious and everyone sees it. And if something tightens so much, it will have to be changed; it is logical, it is common sense. From the background of what you have said - or from what you have not said as I expected you to say - it seems that you refer in some way to the obligation that laws that may be unconstitutional would have to resort to. I'd like to tell you two things about that. The first is that this Constitution that you have also referred to as a bad Constitution will be. You have referred to it as a very open and very progressive Constitution. It will be a very open and very progressive Constitution; however, it is a bad Constitution that does not allow, for example, the universal right to education to be extended, that allows evictions not to be curbed, that does not allow elderly people to be helped in the purchase of medicines or that prevents access to housing. And you said: There has never been recourse and there will be no recourse to those issues that are of fundamental rights. Is not the right to decent housing a fundamental right? In my opinion, yes. And when we talk about the Constitution, I would also say that the bad Constitution is one in which, above the well-being of the majority of citizens, that idea of the indissoluble unity of the homeland always prevails. It is the evil Constitution that consecrates and defends - and does so with nails, teeth and resources - the indissoluble unity of its homeland, but it does not fulfill each and every one of its articles that guarantee social rights or freedoms. The Constitution is untouchable, they say. Untouchable as long as it is not to deny universal health or universal housing. It is right there when you begin to forget the fulfillment of the Constitution. Another question. Only two years ago his Government withdrew two unconstitutionality appeals, one against the Basque Law on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Human Rights Violations - better known as the Law against Police Abuse - and the other against the Navarra Law on Universal Health. We positively value that attitude - we did it at the time and we would also do it again - and we value it because it shows that, when there is political will, we can make progress on solutions. Therefore, neither the Constitution would be enforced nor the Government was obliged to resort to the laws. It all depends on the political will. Let's see if it gives me time to get into a matter that has come to me while you were talking. Since you have spoken of dialogue and parliamentarianism as a good dialogue, I am going to move a question that I have been asked to move you from Catalonia. Apparently, there is a rumor that there is going to be an appeal of unconstitutionality to Law 11/2020, which regulates rental prices in Catalonia. This challenge, in addition to a mistake, is a threat to all people who are subjected to a situation in which they cannot live in dignity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u150	It must be over, Your Honor, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u151	I'd like you to respond to what I've been asked to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u152	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Aizpurua, Your Honor, I was frantically trying to find some papers to give you a full answer to that question - if I may, if I may -; I do not know if I will find them. But I take advantage of the non-answer to answer the substance of the question, because you are talking about rights. For example, there was an autonomous community that wanted to impose mandatory vaccination. Our Constitution does not allow that. But, indeed, there are few such cases. The most frequent are those who appreciate a violation of competences. You said to me: There is a contradiction, a law is passed unanimously in an autonomous community and then it is appealed. For the sake of contradiction, mine. It seems to me that the first law I appealed - in this case, a law passed by the Parliament of Catalonia - had been passed by me with my vote. And I think that contradiction allows us to get to the bottom of the matter. Many times from the perspective of an autonomous community it is being legislated in the development of its competences and we all do so gladly, eagerly and trying to do the best we can. But that does not mean that another Government - in this case, the Government of Spain; or, to be more precise, its legal services or the Council of State itself - considers that this legislation violates the competition framework. Who solves it then? What we try to do is always solve through the agreement, although sometimes we get it and sometimes we don't. He says: You have no obligation to appeal. Look, Your Honor, allow me to disagree, because I have an obligation, as a member of the Government of Spain, to comply with and enforce the laws. If I come to the conviction - or my legal services convince me - that an autonomous law violates the competition framework, I have a political, legal and moral obligation to bring this remedy. I can't look the other way. I tell you that, in my case, the first recourse I had to face was to a Catalan autonomous law. It is not a dish of taste, not only as a Catalan, but as a person who is committed to a process of building a better state through agreement and the expansion of self-government. You do well to snoop a little in the sense of saying that they are very progressive laws. Look, I haven't discussed that with you. Even you have come to tell us that sometimes some approach to a law that was appealed and annulled, the State subsequently collects and regulates it. Well, we have a competition framework that is, in fact, reviewable, but you cannot be surprised that in this case the Government or the Ministry of Territorial Policy are resorting. We always talk about the resources that the state presents, but you know that there are many resources that the autonomous communities also present; logically, because they think that their powers are being invaded and they come to the referee who gives them the reason. I already know that here there is the idea - and sometimes there is a lot of data in that direction - that the Constitutional Court always decides in favour of the State. It's not true, it's not true. I'll give you an example. I used to talk to him about happy moments in my political career and now I'm going to talk to him about a sad moment. In 1981 or early 1982 - if I remember correctly - a law was passed that was called the Organic Law of Harmonization of the Autonomic Process, better known by its acronyms as Loapa. Many parties and communities understood that this law was invading their powers, it was appealed and the Constitutional Court largely - not entirely, but to a large extent - gave reason to the communities. So much so that the law had to change its name and was called Autonomic Process Law. I say this because there are many rulings of the Constitutional Court that are also guiding us to adjust at times that invasive inertia that the State can have and that I will not deny. Therefore, the more dialogue and agreement, the better we do things, the more conflicts we will save ourselves and perhaps we can wait a little longer for the circumstances to be given to allow for a desirable reform of the Constitution in a federal sense. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Government's Disposition to Be Indulged THE COURT SUPPLEMENTS TO SEDITION PENSION PENSION AND OTHER SERIOUS DELIVERS, AND TO REFORM CERTAIN CRIMINAL TYPES OF THE CRIMINAL CODE, ALL AS POLITICAL PAYMENT TO THEIR SECESSIONIST COMPANIES. [[File number 172/000116]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u155	We continue with the following urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the Government's willingness to pardon those sentenced by the Supreme Court who are barely in prison for sedition and other serious crimes, as well as to reform certain criminal types of the Criminal Code, all as a political payment to its secessionist partners. For your defence, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u156	Thank you very much, President. First of all, allow me from this rostrum that today, June 9, La Rioja Day, takes the opportunity to congratulate all the Riojas and to remember that being Riojas is our best way of being and feeling proudly Spanish. Your Honor, Minister, your Government is preparing for the release from prison of the secessionist hierarchies condemned by the seditious and embezzler coup with which they tried to break Catalonia and to boost the constitutional order of Spanish democracy. The postponement of this measure - not of grace, but of misfortune - until after the primary elections of the Socialist Party in Andalusia and the arrival of the summer is undoubtedly the most shameful proof of the cowardice and trembling that afflicts his Government in the face of the illegitimate adoption of an arbitrary decision; a lack of control by a weak Government in the face of which the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, constitutionalism as a whole and the vast majority of Spaniards have risen. In order to deceive about the imminent political payment of secessionist impunity, either through pardons or through the reduction of penalties with the reform of the Criminal Code, this Government has twisted what is already itself its grotesque propaganda arsenal. He's tried to pass President Sanchez's immorality on to the bravery of a statesman. It has assimilated the independenceist discourse and equated Spanish democracy with South African apartheid. It has identified law enforcement in a rule of law with the revenge and revenge of the Hammurabi Code. It has poisoned the values of understanding and concord to cover up the reaffirmation of crime and the blunt recidivism of the coups. And he has given the keys of the socialist citadel to those who once again conspire to destroy the nation, the state and the coexistence between Spaniards. Your government lies without blush and without rest, Minister, but they no longer deceive anyone. Even the last militant of socialism knows well that you are going to pervert the legal institution of pardon so that your independent partners, whom you have freely chosen, will let you sleep a few more months in the Moncloa, and even the last member of the Republican Left knows that the rule of law is what Sanchez is going to throw down the ravine so that he does not fall. If the pardon for those convicted of the offences of the trial is an acceptable solution in the eyes of the law - here are the reports of the Supreme Court and of the Prosecutor's Office that you obviously do - it is also the vanquished reform of the criminal type of sedition in the Criminal Code; it is because it is only explained by the extreme need of a president of the Government who twists the legal order to insult himself of the political survival agreements of which he is captive. As much as the Government searches among its mantras, it will not be able to provide admissible grounds in law justifying pardons; not in the light of the principles of justice, equity and public utility to which the law refers. The law, Minister, the law. Do you remember what that is? He quoted the report of the Prosecutor's Office with the vain hope that they would recover their memory: The penalties imposed cannot be considered unfair in view of the gravity of the crimes committed. Nor does it suffer from a lack of equity, as they strictly comply with the principle of proportionality of penalties. And finally, to sustain the public utility of this initiative of grace is not the most recommended when it is intended to break the basic regulatory framework of democratic coexistence. How are you going to defeat the grounds of the prosecutor's office, which maintains that they are fair, that there is equity and that there is no public utility? I quote from the report of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court: This chamber cannot show the slightest evidence or the weakest sign of repentance, even by making this requirement more flexible. And it goes on: The Message transmitted by the condemned is very expressive of a will to recidivize in the attack on the pillars of democratic coexistence. How are you going to rebut, Minister, what the Supreme Court is proposing, which says there is no repentance? Minister, can you explain to us today, in the seat of national sovereignty, the reasons for justice, fairness and social utility which the Government is going to provide for the granting of pardons? Because the Spaniards have a right to know. And we have no right to know it because the People's Party says it, but because you said it yourself in this rostrum on February 14, 2017, and so is the Journal of Sessions: 'As citizens, we have the right to know, understand and understand what reasons for justice or equity are given in a certain person who received the punishment of the courts so that he will not comply or be partially commuted'. Well, that we demand here today, the right to know and to know, what you yourself advocated. [[Applauds]] Minister, there is neither self-indulgence nor collective pardon in our legal system. How are you going to argue that neither of these two precepts are being breached? Minister, as your Government seems to feel more comfortable on the side of those who break the Constitution than on the side of the democratic institutions that defend it, I now quote the textual words of the condemned: 'We will do it again; we will do it again'. Do you need any more proof of the absence of repentance? How are you going to justify it? Or do you now consider that the pardon fits without repentance? This is the time for you to explain yourself. Your Honor, you have all the officials of the Ministry of Justice making it impossible to fit bubbles in the files of pardons to prevent the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, when considering the appeal that this party will submit, from forever portraying the true nature of this abuse of justice and equality between Spaniards. You, Minister, not so long ago proposed in this very rostrum to ban pardon for crimes such as the embezzlement of public funds. Do you really want to be remembered forever for the humiliation of the law, democracy and the Spaniards who embody these dossiers? You yourself said - I open quotes -: 'The time has come... for the institution of pardon to be used for constitutionally legitimate purposes, preventing the executive power from invading powers that correspond to the judiciary... or violating the principles of legal certainty and separation of powers'. Preventing, you said, just three years ago, from this very rostrum. These are your words, Mr Campo, spoken, as I say, just four years ago. What has happened since then? The only difference is that you have become a minister of a government that is freely dependent on separatists. You should know that history shows that appeasement is always interpreted as a symptom of weakness by those who take advantage of it, and that the only way to appease those who maintain their will to reoffend in illegality is to be fooled by them. There is no height of sight and there is no greatness in submitting to who says to you: Mine is mine and yours is negotiable. Even without any morals, there is no reason for the State to convert prisoners for serious crimes into political jailers of State powers. In exchange for what? In exchange for parliamentary support for survival. What you are willing to deliver in comfortable terms is the dignity of our democracy while buying two years at the separatist monologue table, until the day when you will no longer be able to give them what they are asking for, amnesty and independence, because they mean the rupture of Spain. What will happen then, Minister? What will happen when Oriol Junqueras and Carles Puigdemont, free as the wind that picks up a thousand laments, emboldened by the government's humiliation of the state itself, legitimized before Europe by pardons and the reform of the penal type of sedition, rise forcefully and tumultuously in a new sedition? Or who knows if perhaps in rebellion, to impose the destruction of Catalonia and all of Spain? Because they keep saying, 'We'll do it again.' Looks like you guys don't care about this. But, Mr. Campo, pardons are the seed of a second process, as the Tinnell covenants were of the first. In the rinsing of the Penal Code that you also process, we collect the fertilizer that pays a new blow to the constitutional framework, our framework of coexistence based on respect for the law and judicial decisions. That's the frame. [[Applauds]] On that reform of the Penal Code in which you are also making progress, there is no idea of excessive punishment, it is not applicable to sedition offences. It's not because we don't talk about crimes against public order - and you know it well - and it's not because it doesn't have to be respected by comparative law either. You know perfectly well that comparative law does not support the reform you seek. The same state that you are weakening and disarming with this institutional and legal breakdown, sowing stupor among our European partners - whom we from the People's Party call on to help us defend Spanish democracy from the attacks of the parliamentary partners of the government - cannot be weakened. Minister, you are still in time not to participate in this troupe, you still have room for manoeuvre to preserve your dignity as a lawyer and magistrate and the principles of constitutionalism. We ask him, advise him, and tell him to abandon the Titanic of infamy before he will forever stand in the iceberg of ignominy and jump over the edge, because to free himself from the political ligatures that bind him to the biggest pole of a government that is going to pique is undoubtedly the best way. [[Applauds]] If you do not want to hear our words, Mr Campo, at least listen to the words of your government partners, who say to you: 'We will do it again, we will do it again'. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, stood up.-Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u157	I now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I join in congratulating your people on the Day of La Rioja - indeed, a beautiful community. In view of the tone of the inquiry presented, Mrs Gamarra, I cannot fail to show boredom and sadness. It hasty, because they insist to the point of satiety on presenting things as they are not, on distorting reality to make what should generate unity among all democrats a bold weapon; and this even if this maneuver is at the expense of the interests of Spain. And sadness, sadness at seeing how you continue to be anchored in the rift as the only way to do politics, at seeing how you continue to encourage the division between Spaniards instead of making a constructive, reasonable and proper opposition of a governing party. But above all, sadness because its drift towards polarization policy and spectacle is as bad for you as bad for our country. Still, as much as they insist, I'm not gonna get tired of saying it. This Government has no more debts than those owed to citizens for having placed their trust in it. Precisely for this reason, it always acts guided by the general interest - even if you do not want to see it - in the terms established by the Constitution and the laws and in accordance with article 97 of our founding law. It turns out that, in this context, both the granting of pardons and the legislative initiative to which you refer are precisely two of the main tools that our legal system puts at the disposal of a Government, and puts them to fulfil its constitutional role of defending the public interest. In this respect, I believe that there is little doubt about the second of the tools. The Government shall exercise the legislative initiative conferred on it by article 87 of the Constitution, provided that it understands that it is necessary to regulate a new matter or to reform the existing one. This clearly includes the Criminal Code, which, as a rule of great political relevance throughout the democratic system, must be the subject of special attention by the executive branch. Therefore, and as I have already stated on many occasions, if the crimes of rebellion and sedition come to reform it will not be in any case seeking to favour specific individuals, which I can assure you will not occur through the modification of the penal norm, but by the existence of objective reasons of a legal nature that force these crimes to rethink in order to adapt their formulation to the present context, since an obsolete penal norm that starts from a non-existent reality serves nothing. As I have said on countless occasions, law is a living element that must respond to the needs of the society it serves or seeks to serve. Let us not forget that the law is only an instrument of social organization and organization but never an end in itself. If an offence is not modified in two hundred years and ends up punishing outdated conduct, it must be reformulated, at least if what we are trying to do is to continue to be useful in safeguarding legal assets worthy of criminal protection and not be reduced to a mere adornment or a relic that is very difficult to apply. Mrs Gamarra, read the Supreme Court's good judgment to see the difficulty in applying the rates. To this we must add the fact that, in general terms, the regulation made of such illicit acts in other European laws, compared with the one offered by our Criminal Code, is characterized not only by the lesser severity of the penalties or the requirement, in any case, of violence or intimidation, but also by the absence of an offence equivalent to sedition, as is currently regulated. This is because in its present configuration the sedition approaches a sort of resistance aggravated by the collective or tumultuous character of the same and such typology has been abrogated in numerous systems, such as the German one, where it was regulated in paragraph 115 of its penal rule previously to be repealed in 1970, among strong criticisms of the legal community for punishing the mere fact of being part of the asonada without requiring the use of violence or threat. In France, the crime of rebellion is the one that most closely resembles our decision under the protected legal good and the typical structure, being carried out in 433 of the French Penal Code as a form of violent resistance, with a penalty of up to two years' imprisonment. For its part, the Portuguese law contains offences of coercion or disturbance of constitutional bodies, articles 333 and 334 of the Portuguese Penal Code, which with violence may reach the maximum penalty of eight years but which, if it is committed and there is no violence or intimidation, are punished with penalties of up to three years'imprisonment. And finally, the case of Italy, where seditious expressions or meetings are punished in articles 654 and 655 as mere contraventions, that is, as in our system would be administrative sanctions punished in the form of a fine, for expressions or'meetings intended to promote a popular reaction against the powers or organs of the State. Therefore, in view of the regulation of these crimes by the countries with which Spain shares legal tradition and with a view to greater and better harmonisation facilitating judicial and police cooperation in this important area, it is appropriate to review the treatment that the Spanish Penal Code has been carrying out of crimes against the Constitution and against public order. These are the reasons and not others that make it appropriate for an initiative to do so; reasons, as I say, of a purely legal and objective nature that I encourage you to rebut in the same terms. On the other hand, about the government's willingness to pardon those convicted of these crimes, it is a decision that must be made - I assure you - with the gaze placed on the benefits for Spain and the whole of the Spaniards; a measure of grace that is born from the absolute respect for the judiciary in its decision. Mrs Gamarra, don't try to confuse the Spaniards, this is not about reviewing what the prosecutor's office has requested or what the Supreme Court's ruling has issued, at all. It is based on the greatest respect for it, compliance with and congratulations on a rule of law in which our society lives, but that does not mean that there are no other rules and that there are times of politics. And in those times of politics is where the law of 1870, revised forty years ago, enters, which establishes the guidelines by which the right of grace can be governed. That which Hannah Arendt calls 'the power of forgiveness'; that which I think should be reviewed, because perhaps we would be better off as a society if they had that point of complete conceptualization of the legal system and not a biased and twisted view of what the rules and courts that apply them represent. Solving the situation that has been experienced in relation to Catalonia is the responsibility of all political forces, starting with the Government. You, ladies and gentlemen, were in that place, had the opportunity to manage the situation as a government, and you failed dramatically. During his tenure, there was a significant deterioration of the situation until it reached extremes difficult to achieve in terms of tension and lack of understanding. The experience gained since we had the new Executive shows that the change of strategy is working and that in the democratic framework dialogue is undoubtedly the best way to bring positions closer and solve political problems no matter how serious they may be. Your Honor, I know that you share, although they do not practice it very much, that the first objective of politics is to ensure free and peaceful coexistence. Let us therefore make every effort to ensure that such coexistence is possible, that it is possible in difference, that it is possible in disagreement, but that it is possible. You do not make it possible, you do not have a country project, you do not have a mechanism to restore the wounds between Catalan society and Catalan society with the rest of Spain, and there is our big difference. You don't have a country project, you're anchored in a position that doesn't lead us to anything. Don't be afraid because the unity of the country is assured. You've seen the duration of that attempt: 56 seconds. By the way, the Socialist Party supported in an inflexible way everything the Government asked of it - remember 155-. We now ask you for institutional loyalty, because we have an obligation to seek among all the best way to manage this world and this society with many uncertainties but with one certainty: dialogue is the way to try to achieve it. Your Honor, the absence of communication and understanding benefits no one but those who live from the chasm and hatred. Don't get in that car. Spain does not deserve to be joined by the People's Party in the form of chryspation and hatred, because that way of doing politics based on chryspation and hatred harms democratic institutions as we can see within and outside our borders. Therefore, I hope that everyone agrees with me that this stage started in 2017 must end and that it has been very negatively affecting the unity of the country and coexistence. So far, dialogue is the only successful way to overcome this stage. Whether or not pardons are appropriate to deepen that dialogue and normalize the situation, it is a decision that this Government will always take from the point of view of the general interest, an interest that is for us above the electoral revenue and, indeed, I think that it should also be for any opposition that intends to present itself as an option would be for Government. It is a question of loyalty, not with the Government, but with the State, with citizenship and for coexistence; those values which the preamble of the Constitution establishes and which you sometimes forget. It is important to understand that here we are talking about what is best for Spain and not for the pardoned, its political parties or ours. Politics must have a vocation to overcome fractures, to meet again, to build harmony and coexistence, and that is what the Spanish Government wants, that is what drives this government, even above party interests. Support us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u159	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To continue the debate, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u160	Minister, there are some issues that we wanted to address in this inquiry that you have not answered and that I hope you will respond to in the reply. You always refer, especially in recent weeks, to the fact that it is no longer the time for justice but for politics and, frankly, without justice there can be no politics. That justice is always on which equality and freedom are based in a democracy, and that is where they will always find us, but do not pretend to change what is fundamental to us. For us there is something that supports the search for equality between the Spaniards and it is the framework of coexistence and the constitutional framework. That defense means respect for the law and respect for judicial decisions, that is what is failing you when you raise this line that seeks nothing but to please the independenceists and guarantee their support during what is left of the legislature. Undoubtedly, they are trying now that the Spaniards believe that they do not have this decision, but one day yes and another one can also be heard in any gossip or read in any newspaper that continues to advance in the line of pardon and reform of the Penal Code. On pardons I repeat and ask you again here that as Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain today in the parliamentary seat, in the seat of national sovereignty, you tell us whether you believe that there is a right to pardon, whether you believe that there is a right to collective pardon and whether it is possible to pardon those who do not repent. [[Applauds]] I think it is very basic and that these three issues, as you yourself said, we have a right to know. The Spanish have the right to know them, just as you must also explain how they will justify the existence of a reason for justice, fairness and public utility because no one finds it, the only thing there is a political utility. With regard to the second of the issues that we raise with you, which has to do with the reform of the Criminal Code, it is certainly a custom-made suit. You have made reference to the fact that it is not a reform that is aimed at individuals. Look, minister, for just reform the crime of sedition and rebellion when there are people convicted of it and also there are people who have fled who still have to appear before the Spanish courts - you will tell me if you are not going to implement a reform of the Penal Code in relation to these two crimes - man! I think he's got a name and a last name, don't you? Or are you going to carry out that reform of the Penal Code when you have completed the time limit for the execution of the sentences without pardons and have attended to the last of the fugitives and have served the sentences imposed on you? [[Applauds]] Please indicate the time frame within which such criminal reform will be carried out. If you carry it a posteriori obviously you will not bear names and surnames, but if you carry it out before you have appeared before the Spanish court and you have been tried obviously you do have names and surnames. [[Applauds]] You asked me also to rebut from purely legal and objective positions why we do not see this reform. For purely legal and objective reasons I disassembled you from the three reasons you have given. Firstly, because the legislation relating to article 544, referring to the crime of sedition, is not two hundred years old, it is 1995. Secondly, because, as you know very well, we are not talking about a crime of public order, we are talking about a crime whose reduction of penalties has just the opposite effect of the inhibition of its being committed again. [[The lady]] Do not fall into the mistake of buying the independentist discourse that this affects the rights of assembly and demonstration, because you know perfectly well that what has been judged is not the crime that affects the rights of assembly and demonstration as those who have been convicted say, we talk about coexistence within the constitutional framework. And as you also know, Minister, comparative law, even if it calls behaviors by another name and the crime does not have the same name as in our country, has far more severe penalties than those we have in Spain; therefore, it is not worth the comparative right to say that there is a huge gravity and a huge difference. I ask you to read it, to document it, to compare it, but truly and without lying. Finally, Minister, there is one place where politics must take place: the Council of Europe. You know very well that this very month the European Assembly will address this issue and I ask that the Government of Spain defend the Spanish system and our jurisdictional system...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u161	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u162	Don't buy what's about to be approved there. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u163	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, you have taught me the hood and believe me that I would like nothing more than to go into the discussion of the factual normative descriptions of our European penal codes, but it seems to me that we would be wasting our time because we will have an opportunity to do so very carefully. I can assure you that, perhaps, with those notes that have passed to you, complementing the difficulty expressed by the Supreme Court in the judgment of the Second Chamber to incardinate the violence and register the qualifications of the types, we would have made much progress. Another thing I say to you, in a social and democratic State governed by law, the institution of pardon is fully enshrined. He has referred twice to that speech that I made - this morning Mr Santamaría -, I think they have read the questions skewedly, but I subscribe to each and every one of the words I said there. He spoke that pardon is an institution that has been with humanity, or rather, with power. Whenever there has been power there has been the ability to do so. Indeed, now, being a natural institute, it is of exceptional use. And our Constitution, taking a historic leap, already establishes which figures fit, when amnesty does not fit, etc. Therefore, I refer to that. I insist, I'd love to come in, but I don't think it's good. I have said it before and I say it again now: the most absolute respect for the times of justice. The legal order is based on respect for the laws, and therefore everyone - and when I say everyone does not exclude anyone - we have to operate on that key to respect for the separation of powers. But what is clear is that if in our legal system, in that kelsenian pyramid, the Constitution appears in its vertex and there, to a lesser degree, all that is the laws that give rise to that concept, to that broad iuris name, which is the legal system, is also the Law of Pardon, which, moreover, with constitutional acceptance, we will have to abide by it. Therefore, it does not stain illegitimate, unconstitutional or aberrant the exercise of pardon, because it would be insulting the Constitution itself. I know that they have no interest in tainting, and I have nothing more to say here than to say that, please, it renews the constitutional organs, because that also makes it a homeland. Your Honor, you're not right. There are concepts that are being valued for justice, equity or public utility. The Criminal Code itself even tells judges that if they consider that the sentence they have handed down may be deorbited or disproportionate, they may apply for pardon. See if there are grounds for justice on some occasions; this is not the case. Fairness, as you know, many confuse it and equate it to justice. I prefer to keep those words, already spoken a few years ago, from Aristotle in his Ethics to Nicholas: Clearly equity is like justice, but with something else. And finally, there is public utility, and that is the real key that a government has to value when it has to think about it, and that is what this minister has today to propose an agreement, if it is important, no longer looking at people who can be pardoned. Indeed, there are some of these people who have expressed that they do not want the pardon. You know very well that repentance, in its modern legal conception, has nothing to do with that Christian legal tradition that spoke to us of a sad and painful conscience, it is enough to abandon the struggle against the legal order and embrace it. Some things are being said, but this is not the time to value it, there will be time. I have told your colleague this morning and I say this to you now with all due respect, but also understand that the times of the government are before the times of this House, and I have said that I myself, at my own request, will ask you to appear to explain the reasons for the proposals for agreement or for the proposals for real decrees that the Council of Ministers is carrying. What we can't do is deceive citizens by putting ourselves in a sense of lack of vision. What I am very clear is that I have not yet heard anyone from your party say what are the ways to outline the huge crack that exists in the coexistence between Catalans and Catalans with Spain. That is why I ask you, Mrs Gamarra, that without abandoning the legal rigour that characterizes it, and that I am willing to share until exhaustion with you, look for the interests of Spain, because perhaps the citizens will end up thanking you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u165	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE AN EFFECTIVE, SAFE AND EQUALIITATIVE VACCUNATION FOR ALL SPAIN BEFORE THE SUMMER. [[File number 172/000118]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u166	We move on to the next item on the agenda. Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure effective, safe and equal vaccination for all Spaniards before the summer. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u167	Allow me, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to mark this urgent inquiry into vaccination by evoking an ephemerides. Forty years and four days ago, five infections were reported in the United States of a disease that was going to kill thirty million people: AIDS. Denialism infected all parties. The mayor of San Francisco, Feinstein, refused to close the gay saunas for fear of facing the gay collective and the infection spread, but a gay activist named Bill Kraus rang and, despite being persecuted, harassed and accused of fascist, managed to change that strategy. Bill Kraus was a hero because he didn't deny the truth. Denialism, ladies and gentlemen, has been present throughout history in all epidemics, but the most dangerous is the negationism of the powerful. That happened in Spain when the experts on the left said that Wuhan's coronavirus was a flu, when biologists and WHO acted as coverts and the Sanchocommunist government denied the severity of the epidemic. And all this was denounced by VOX in commissions and in plenary. They called us xenophobes, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you the truth. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly clear that Communist China has infected the world and China must pay for it. The Weitz report and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory report point in the direction that Wuhan's coronavirus is a virus called enhanced or gain-of-function and escaped from Wuhan's laboratory. The epidemic of the Wuhan coronavirus, which the WHO now calls ancestor, has been devastating for Spain. According to the latest MoMo Report - excess mortality - 85591 deaths. If we extrapolate until March, we reach 100,000. 7.9% of Spaniards have been infected. Lethality of 2,16 %. Unfortunately from a health point of view not only because of the loss of life, but because one in five people, ladies and gentlemen, who has passed the COVID will have persistent COVID and an economic misfortune that has ruined the country. In this context, our inquiry is framed. Madam Minister, you had it easy to improve the poor management of Don Salvador Illa because you had the ace of vaccination on your sleeve, but you failed, as the bad student who does not give time to finish the exam fails and says: I have little to go, I have little to go. No, minister, they want to sell us a blind mule saying they're going to vaccinate 70% of the Spaniards by the end of August. I mean, when the summer season's over. In 2019 we earned 75 billion euros for tourism. Before summer is when it should have been done, there are twelve days left and 73% of Spaniards remain without having received a full vaccination. You can propagate it all you want, but the full vaccination is not to have put a dose, it is to have given the full vaccination with two doses in the case of all vaccines except Janssen's, and vaccines approved by the European Medicines Agency and according to the data sheet, Minister. According to a page of VOCID vaccines carried out by a thousand independent volunteers, we will reach 75% of the full vaccination on November 15. Good. And a person not fully vaccinated is a danger to him or her and to others. At present no less than 35,5 % of those over 60 years of age have not completed their vaccination; from 60 to 69, people who may be active, more exposed to the virus, no less than 67% without being completely vaccinated. It's your data. Spain has linked itself to the European Union's purchasing system, which has been defined by the European Socialists, not by me, as a fiasco, a catastrophe and a disaster: Mrs Iratxe García. Ladies and gentlemen, Germany and the Nordic countries care that Spain should be ruined for not receiving tourists. These predictions that you make us as a triumph are a contempt for the Spaniards. You know why? Because Spain has always been on the podium of the epidemic, on the podium of shame, and they have to compensate the Spaniards by accelerating vaccination. They should have done it. It is important for the Spanish to know that the United Kingdom requires to consider a safe tourist destination for its nationals not only an appropriate cumulative incidence, but also a defined vaccination percentage, also sequencing properly to detect variants. All this demands and VOX proposed in this House to make a real national sequencing network in Spain that would also include research centres. He was rejected. The autonomic system, a disaster. SEI-COVID has not reported on the sequencing since 30 October 2020. Not having enough vaccination, not having an adequate sequencing network that detects the variants, has been a failure not only for health but for the economy. Vaccination has been halted by changes in sectarian groups and especially by the Government's attitude to the AstraZeneca vaccine. The government has also skipped the test data sheet, went against the European Medicines Agency and to justify it has become a tester, not content with being a mere carrier. I'll explain a little. The essay Con vivacS is more or less the following: they have concluded that if you first take one kilo of pears and then one kilo of apples take more fruit than if you eat only one kilo of pears. Any finds, ladies and gentlemen! That's a little bit of a find! [[Applauds]] In scientific terms they have found what they knew they were going to find. There's always a flattering scientist who says: it looks like you have energy, we're going to do an essay like this. The AstraZeneca vaccine followed by Pfizer is more effective at generating antibodies than the AstraZeneca vaccine. For that journey... I respect the authors very much, I know them, but, as I say, very flattering. Therefore, the Government lacks the truth by saying that this is a test to see security, since its main variable was to measure the immunity generated. Do you think there's anything in a trial of 676 patients versus millions and millions of people vaccinated in the world under the standard AstraZeneca pattern? How dare you skip anything less than the EMA data sheet? Do you doubt the safety of adenovirus vaccines? Well, say it. It is true that we all worry about the very rare cases of thrombosis but be brave and say: we are very concerned about the vaccines of AstraZeneca and Janssen. In fact, many Nordic countries do not use them. But say it and say they've definitely opted for messenger RNA vaccines. Minister, something smells like a suspect on this issue of vaccines in terms of safety. Two data: you haven't updated the pharmacovigilance reports since May 11, 2021, a month ago, and that with data from April 25th. How will distrust of the government not grow and how will the anti-vaccine movements not grow like mushrooms, if it is the same government that sows chaos with its confusion? Madam Minister, you must always be prepared for the worst. You are a prudent woman and I ask you what contingency plans you have to see if in the future the European Union's purchasing system fails or problems arise with some vaccine. Are you going to keep asking for patent expropriations? If so, how are they going to explain this to Novavax, who is going to manufacture in Porriño, or Moderna, who is going to generate 100 million doses in Granada? In conclusion, Minister, you have failed in the vaccination plan because what you had to do was to vaccinate the Spanish before the summer, not by September. I'm suspended until September. That's what you are. They're suspended. Again, you charge yourself with health and tourism. People's doubts and fears are removed with scientific, true and transparent information. Scientists have to be advising the government, ensuring that they understand that in science, ladies and gentlemen, truth is a process of investigation, that there is no absolute certainty. But it is the Government that has to explain its political decisions. As you will understand, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I do not consider Mr Simon a scientist. You have become a political pseudo and he loves it. A few days ago you recommended journalists not to listen to you. The problem, Minister, is not only that many Spaniards, as has been shown in the AstraZeneca issue, do not listen to you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u168	Thank you, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Steegmann, you have started talking about HIV and I, of course, want to answer that question about HIV. AIDS continues to kill today, four decades after being with us, hundreds of thousands of people and is a source of stigma and pollution. Since 2018, this government, in the hands of Pedro Sánchez, has recovered universal health, we have improved coverage in the funding of antiretroviral treatments and also post-exposure prophylaxis and pre-exposure prophylaxis, and here, before the whole House, we have shown our commitment to reach 95% of people with HIV in treatment, 95% of them with undetectable viral load along with 0% of discrimination. This is the aim of the Government of Spain and I assume that your party and your group will be in favour. [[Applauds]] Let's go to the vaccines. The goal shared by all, ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the pandemic has been to overcome the virus, despite some parliamentary groups, especially yours; I repeat, despite some parliamentary groups, especially yours. The Government has been in the hands of the autonomous communities to attempt this recovery in all aspects: health, economic and social. Because it was not only a question of curbing - as we have tried - the effects of the virus on health, but also of addressing the challenges posed to us as a country and as a society. In order to achieve that collective immunity and with the horizon set in the vaccines against the virus, the Government has worked side by side with the autonomous communities to design a vaccination strategy for our country. In Spain collective immunity, despite its parliamentary group, will be achieved before the end of August, as the President of the Government has said. [[Applauds]] What is surprising is that the country's most successful campaign, which is vaccination, is also being questioned by you. I understand that there are difficulties - of course we will not deny them, we must face them and overcome the obstacles - but, ladies and gentlemen, achieving this objective, of having the collective, group immunity of our country the sooner the better on the dates we have told you, it must be a reason for pride and not a reason for criticism, and I do not see it in your group or in that part of the bench. On the contrary, you do not want the country to go well; you do not want the country to go well, and this government wants the country to go well because if the country goes well, we all do well. Vaccination is the best weapon we have not only to defeat the virus, but also the best economic recovery weapon in this country to move forward. The President of the Government has been announcing milestones that have been fulfilled, Mr Steegmann, despite his negative and defeatist predictions. I'm sorry I didn't convince you, but it's not necessary, it's the facts that are there. The first was that the number of people vaccinated was higher than the number of registered infections. And we did it a long time ago. The second was that in the first week of May there were five million Spaniards with a full schedule; we also got it. The third one aimed to get ten million people fully vaccinated in the first week of June, and we also just got it. The milestones that remain ahead, if the companies comply, remain within reach of the hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the biggest vaccination campaign we have ever had, in a campaign of success, of country success, of course along with the leadership of the European Union. Can anyone imagine where we would be if it hadn't been for the European Union? Today I claim Europeanism. You, no. This government, yes, as it feels fully integrated into the European Union because it has been able to live up to the response with Europe. [[applause]] We are leading the ranking day by day of vaccination, from puncture to puncture, from inoculation to inoculation, for the strength of the National Health System, for the work of the autonomous communities, for the leadership of the Government of Spain. In the year 2021 alone we have acquired more than 100 million doses of vaccines, we have gone to all contracts, to initial contracts, to additional contracts, to optional contracts and, of course, I want to express my appreciation to our healthcare professionals and the pride I feel for my country and, as I say, for the healthcare professionals we have, especially for the nursing staff. Despite what you say, the figures are spectacular. We already have more than 11.2 million Spaniards with a full schedule, which means 23% of the Spanish population; there are 20 million with at least one dose, which we reached yesterday, 42%. This vaccination immunity, together with the natural immunity, which we also have, places us in some certainly important figures and this is directly related, first of all, to the decline in the number of infections, especially in people over 50 years of age, and also in lethality, Mr Steegmann. It is true that many compatriots have left us - from here to express our memory for them - but it is also true the importance of vaccination for the decline of lethality. I will give you a figure that reflects what this successful vaccination campaign means: 90% of people over the age of 50, 90%, already have at least one dose and 50%, the second dose. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to overlook - on the contrary - the difficulties we have had, of course not, and above all what I am going to defend in this rostrum is the importance of the autonomous system that we have, the co-governance and the work of the autonomous communities in the face of the discourse that you have made from this rostrum. I would like to say to you that when we started the whole European Union bought at risk, bought at risk without knowing whether or not those vaccines were going to be effective and it was a good thing. We now have four authorised vaccines and we have seen that diversity has been the path that is leading us to this massive vaccination campaign. As you know, we have right now authorized two RNA - the Naty Food and the Modern - and two adenovirus, in this case of different typology - that of Valeria or AstraZeneca and that of Jansen. Having different vaccines has allowed us to diversify among the entire population in attention to the characteristics of the vaccine. It is true that there have been delays in deliveries, it is true, motivated by reasons attributable to the pharmaceutical companies themselves, and also other important considerations such as those you have made in reference to rare traumatic events, uncommon but serious, as you know. I would like to remind you that pharmacovigilance reports are published once a month, and you must therefore be about to leave in June. There is no delay, Mr Steegmann, do not say things that are not true. I can understand the criticism, but not the lack of truth because in this case you are not being honest. We have seen not only in this vaccination campaign, but also in the year 2022 and in 2023. We have authorised in the Council of Ministers the purchase of vaccines from the company BioNTECH Pfizer for the amount of 1800 million to continue strengthening what is called booster, to continue to face new variants or the need that is being subject - as you know - to scientific review of having to continue strengthening these issues. Do you know what I'm telling you? That in the face of the difficulties - such as those we have had with the AstraZeneca vaccine - other countries of the European environment, which I assume you will recognise, as France, as Germany, as Finland, as Sweden or as Canada, on the American continent, have taken decisions similar to those that our country has taken. I have not seen any criticism of you in those countries. A decision that I confess to you has been one of the most difficult, but a decision based on observational studies and a clinical trial that you have disregarded - which I do not think, Mr Steegmann, is appropriate -. In addition, I will tell you one thing, the CombivacS trial has been the instrument by which the Government of Canada has taken the decision of the heterologous pattern as Spain; first extending from twelve to sixteen weeks and then assuming it on the basis of the CombicS. In addition, I inform you that the CombicS has been presented by the director of the Carlos III Institute of Health to the EMA, which has shown great interest in it and has also been published in preprint by The Lancet magazine. I tell you one thing, Mr Steegmann, the heterologous pattern has arrived to stay, because the boosters are going to be on a heterologous pattern and besides, you well know, as a doctor who is, that the heterologous pattern is used in other vaccines, which you do not say at all. I therefore believe that despite the difficulties the decision taken by the Committee on Public Health with the submission of vaccines and the report of the Bioethics Committee has been reasonable and accepted; however, because of the difficulty it has also been considered that they can, in those people who reject Pfizer's, because there is a greater immune response, understand other questions, that they do not do so. In any case, what I want to say to you, Mr Steegmann, is that we are at a very important time for the country, at a time when citizens are already beginning to see that we are closer to the end. And you, instead of joining that hope, are doing a conspiracy to which you already have us accustomed - with the questions you say of the phylocommunist government - but which is giving an effective response to the pandemic; with difficulties yes, but with determination, with commitment and with courage of this government led by Pedro Sánchez. Add from a blessed time to hope and don't keep putting wheel sticks on the road. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u170	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that the use of masks is compulsory in the Chamber. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor to Mr Steegmann Olmedillas. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President, for coming. Thank you, Minister. Well, that would be Mr. Sanchez's first promise, wouldn't it? You say these continuous slanders about VOX. When you say that VOX has not proposed, it is that you were not, did not attend or nobody told you all the ideas that this parliamentary group gave to Mr Illa. At least you would have to be grateful for this. If they didn't know or use the serological tests, if they said the masks were useless, if I had to explain, if I didn't know or put it on, for God's sake. [[Applauds]] You say we have a lot of natural immunity, as if it were a government merit. Of course, you have let the virus in and there are 3,700,000 Spaniards who have passed the virus. But, well, is that like a medal, Minister? The truths are clear; you see the glass half full and I see it very empty. Because, Your Honor, Minister, I'm sorry, there are 12 days left for the summer and 73% of Spaniards have not received a full vaccination; that's the truth. I repeat, twelve days, and there are 33.5% of Spaniards over sixty who are still missing to fully immunize. Therefore, you will say things in absolute terms, as always, but the percentages are the ones that matter. As you know, pharmacovigilance reports of vaccines are only made every month. Do you believe that in this situation in which we are in a continuous emergency, in a health crisis, it can be tolerated that better and more frequent pharmacovigilance reports are not made? That is the mentality of an official in times of laxity, but not in times of crisis. I don't think I'm a congressman for Canada. This is not the Parliament of Canada, but every health authority in Canada has made clear why it is going to vaccinate heterologously. I do not say that heterologous vaccination is not a thing to rehearse in the future, but really rehearse, and not with an essay that is said to be phase two, but that has all the characteristics of false trial three, that is, poorly designed. You may be so sincere as to say that Canada has discouraged the Janssen vaccine, but you have lowered the age of administration of the Janssen vaccine knowing that thrombotic events occur in younger people. Be brave and say it! We'll understand, Your Honor. In conclusion, as I say, first of all, you have not acknowledged all the efforts made by this party and this parliamentary group. We have brought many ideas, and the problem is that you know it; what happens is that you have rejected all our ideas from xenophobes, from conspirators, from lack of mental articulation. But well, have a certain honesty; I recognize you some of your merits, how not - some, not all, of course -. However, you would have to do this too if you were honest with us, but first and foremost with those who have to be honest with it is with the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u172	Thank you very much, Mr Steegmann. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Steegmann, I will recognize the most cordial tone, which is not usual, but I thank you and you know it personally. You've been kind and I thank you. In this reply, Mr Steegmann, I would like to talk about the present and the future, and about the pride of the country, which I hope you will join. At least I, as Minister of the Government of Spain, after the hard year we have gone through as a pandemic, feel the high responsibility of the citizenry, the response of all public administrations, despite the difficulties, and the great work and commitment of our healthcare professionals to get here. Pride of country and hope of country. That comes from the hand of cornering the virus and from the most successful vaccination campaign we are having at this time of difficulty. This is the path we're on, despite your data and your tannery. I do not deny your role, I do not deny it, but it is true, as I told another party that shares that side of the House, that 'all evil' cannot go on, because there are things going well. Vaccination is not only going well, vaccination is going very well. When we meet with our family and friends, everyone has already been vaccinated or is about to be vaccinated. We know on the dates that were, therefore, that vaccination is progressing is undeniable. You can say whatever you want in front of words, realities and certainties, but vaccination, as I like to say, goes like a shot, and it's true. The capacity of the National Health System is at the test of every effort. Last week, 4.6 million doses of vaccines arrived. It has been the week of greatest arrival, since the month of June is being exceptional, because Pfizer has advanced vaccines in the last quarter, which is called Q4-Q2. We have set a record from Friday to Monday, we have put 1,200 000 doses, thanks to the healthcare professionals who have punctured them, to the autonomous communities that have done their work and to the Government of Spain that has bought the vaccines to bring them. It is a collective and participatory work, and that deserves recognition from all of us. Of course, what I do want to share is that to get here we have had to make difficult decisions, it is true. That's what it's about to govern, to make shared decisions like in the Vaccination Survey, in the Public Health Commission and in the Interterritorial Council, to get here, and I want to recognize that work and that effort. What I want is to keep looking forward, with hope, because that is what is bringing us the biggest mass vaccination campaign: hope, recovery of health and, above all, improvement of economic recovery, as the international indicators are directly linking this forecast of improvement with the vaccination campaign. We have made mistakes, of course, but we have also been successful, many more successful. I'd like you to recognize some. You have done so from this rostrum and I thank you, Mr Steegmann. Therefore, hand stretched out to continue working together. I ask you to join in hope, it is the best option this country has. The Government is determined to follow that path, by the hand of the autonomous communities and of the autonomous cities, also, of course, of the two we have; but, above all, by the hand of scientific evidence. Even when there has not been, we have sought it, and, moreover, it has been tremendously valued on the international scene. Ladies and gentlemen, what I want to share is that the lethality we have in our country, fortunately, after the hard blows we have received, is improving. Our objective is zero cases of lethality, I suppose it is shared by the whole House, and we have to continue working on it, in order to have a cumulative incidence of less than fifty. It is a very important goal, we are getting closer and closer, we are already close to a hundred; yesterday, one hundred and thirteen. The incidence is stabilizing. It is true that we are now attending a bifurcation among the over fifty, who have a stable and declining cumulative incidence, and among the under fifty, because vaccination is also reaching, especially, the thirty-year-olds downhill. Therefore, what I invite you to do is to add to the prosperity and hope of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-09-CD210609.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was twelve and twenty-five minutes from noon.
