ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's resume the session. Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary session includes the debate and adoption of an opinion by the Committee on Organic Legislative Initiative - item 30 of the agenda - which must be put to a final vote as a whole, which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, pursuant to this provision, he announced that the votes would not take place before 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u2	We begin with the item on the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability. To present the royal decree-law, the Minister of Consumer Affairs has the floor on behalf of the Government. [[Rumors]] Please, keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone, Members of Parliament. This royal decree which I come to present and defend concerns the new Consumer Agenda adopted by the European Commission, which must govern the relations of the public administration with regard to the specific subject matter of consumption and its effects on consumers. This is a novel approach ranging from 2020 to 2025 at its current stage, which seeks to ensure effective protection for all consumers and that these consumer relations can be carried out in line with other objectives set by European and Spanish public policies. We know that consumer relations involve everyone. Everyone here today, in this House, at some point we take the role of a consumer, we have a kind of relationship with different companies and we know that these consumer relations are neither neutral nor symmetrical. They are not neutral because our consumption decisions not only affect the economy, but also affect the environment, the planet. And they are not symmetrical because at the same time we are all aware that the capacity for consumption clearly differs according to social strata and income strata. We are talking about that consumer relations have to do with habits, with patterns of consumption that affect - I stress again - the ecological sphere; they have a strong ecological and social impact. This ministry therefore takes as its own the fundamental guidelines of this approach of the European Commission to the new Consumer Agenda and recalls that in that same Consumer Agenda the central and important element is precisely to ensure consumption oriented towards the ecological transition, basically because consumer relations have a very strong impact on our planet, which you know is being subjected to enormous tensions precisely because of the way in which the model of production and consumption operates. To renew these patterns of consumption and to be able to establish incentives so that people can adapt their relations and consumer decisions to the protection of the environment, the protection of their own health and, ultimately, the protection of democracy is a central axis that we will continue to develop from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. He also said that it is clear that consumer relations are unequal. This is obvious when we live in an asymmetrically distributed society in which many people are left out of their own consumption decisions and their own ability to buy, to acquire goods and services that can enable them to nurture and develop their lives. This is closely linked to the concept of positive freedom, positive guarantee, and is what philosophically justifies real decree-laws like the one we are presenting here today. We believe in that positive freedom, in the positive guarantees that are sometimes established in law and sometimes, in the absence of their being established in law, at least they are recognized as such; and I mean basically that there is no freedom when many people do not have the capacity to access goods and services that are essential to living in dignity. We are talking about elements that have already been debated in this House many times over many years, tens of years, and which have to do with the fact that a democratic and developed society such as the Spanish one cannot allow sectors of the population to be left out of power, for example, to warm their home in winter, to turn on the refrigerator, to feed themselves, to have access to housing, to have access to public health and to access basic services and goods in order to develop a dignified life. Ensuring these elements and components of life is a fundamental part of public action. That is why when we talk about a real decree for the protection of consumers and, in particular, about a specific sector of consumers, the sector of which they have been called vulnerable consumers, we are referring - and we cannot forget at any time - to this philosophical and guiding framework of public policies. The European Commission itself and the common sense and the documents that have been published come to the conclusion that the pandemic we are suffering and fighting among all has altered some habits of consumption, in addition to having, logically, affected our health and our society in a very notorious way. To give a smaller example, the number of online transactions has increased and, therefore, the type of activity that dominates consumer relations has been altered. At the same time - and this is something we have also discussed on many occasions - they have grown, probably - even if we do not yet have data on these claims at the earliest, there is a great chance given the previous experience - poverty, inequality and, ultimately, the situation of defencelessness and vulnerability vis-à-vis other major system operators - large companies, for example - on the part of our society. We are talking about a socio-economic vulnerability that we are quite used to talking about in our country because, fortunately, we are discussing it to see how to solve it and which has to do with indicators known to all and subject to debate in public policy: unemployment rate, wage level or access to housing. But here we have to understand that the concept of vulnerability reflected in this royal decree law is much broader; it is a concept that not only refers to socio-economic elements, but is questioning us about another series of vital dimensions; for example, the diminished capacity of certain sectors of our society to access good information and to be able to make a good decision in transactions that operate in the digital world. This, which has been agreed to call a technological gap, is also clearly affecting the ability to make good decisions and leaves a vulnerable situation and, therefore, subject to possible fraud and scams on a large segment of the population. There are also people with some kind of disability who may have problems with access to information and suddenly find themselves in a particularly vulnerable situation; minors who, in the face of commercial communications, are particularly vulnerable and sensitive. Likewise, certain places, areas or regions of our country, what has been agreed to call empty Spain or the rural world, lack services. That kind of vulnerability is not the vulnerability we are used to talking about when we refer to the unemployment rate at aggregate levels, but a cross-sectional vulnerability that makes any of us vulnerable at some point in our lives. There is no need to overwhelm with data, because I am convinced that all of us here are well aware, unfortunately, of the structural problems facing our country that have been aggravated as a result of the pandemic, even though we still do not have quantitative data that can justify this claim, but it is clear, for example, that in 2019, one in three households claimed that they were unable to meet unforeseen expenses. That means that many people in our country lived to the limit in those particularly difficult times of 2019, a situation that, most likely - I stress again - has worsened with the pandemic. 30% of children under the age of sixteen are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. With these two data I signal structural elements that were already present and that, now, with the pandemic are likely to have increased. Article 51 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 states that the public authorities must guarantee the protection of consumers and users. This royal decree-law not only brings concepts of the European Union, very developed concepts in other countries and that we have to be able to incorporate into our regulations, but at the same time establishes a legal umbrella, if I may be allowed the metaphor, so that all the public authorities of our country can, at such sensitive times as this, act in a much more effective and much more efficient way. Many of our autonomous communities, regardless of the political colour of the party that governs them, have acted, especially in recent months, to protect the most vulnerable sectors of our society, but in the absence, precisely, of that state framework, which would make it possible to open up much more possibilities and protect them in a much more effective way, in compliance with article 51 in a concrete way. The urgency is therefore justified by the situation of the pandemic and by the need to provide all the public authorities in this country and at all different levels of competence with effective tools to deal with these situations. We are talking about a legal framework that allows us to understand well how to protect people and that provides instruments to continue to deploy policies from the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and, therefore, from the Government of Spain, but also from the rest of public administrations. This is very important to understand. All it takes is looking out there, looking at our neighborhoods, looking at our neighborhoods, to realize that the situation of economic vulnerability has worsened. We are aware of what is happening. This Government, from the beginning of the pandemic, has deployed a strong social shield to protect those people who would need it most and we are aware that we need to further develop that social shield. Protecting the productive fabric and developing that social shield are defensive elements in the face of an exogenous, external shock, like a pandemic. It is important that all public authorities be committed to this, and that requires instruments. This is one of those instruments for a very specific area, that of consumer relations, but, I insist, they are consumer relations that affect us in the short term and any of you. You know that during the pandemic, unfortunately, the number of claims in certain economic sectors has increased for breach of contracts, for fraud, for deception, because in times of difficulty there have been those who have tried to take advantage of the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, because they have less information to know about contracts or are not so familiar with how the digital world works. There are many reasons why they have been targeted by certain economic actors, who have also seen an opportunity in this pandemic. The public authorities cannot allow that to happen. At the same time, phenomena already known, such as unemployment or the deprivation of basic services, have been added, and from the Government we have deployed many tools to deal with them. Of course, one of them has to do with housing and the need to protect a basic right such as the right to housing, which is also reflected as a positive guarantee - although not an effective right - in our 1978 Constitution. In short, enhanced protection for consumers and users, mentioning Article 51 of the Spanish Constitution, mentioning the European Commission's regulations and, above all, those guidelines that challenge us to protect the social majority and to protect our planet. Here again I stress an element that will be common in the coming months in this ministry and it is the fact that our patterns of consumption, for example food, not only have to do with our individual health, with our family health, but also have to do with, through the forms of production and consumption of those same foods, with the protection of the planet. And that is an axis which, as you know, is very clear in this government, but it also appears in all the documents of the European Union, which has a very clear commitment, among other things, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, many of which occur in the area of consumption decisions, because they affect production. It is also - and I want to end this - an efficient use of public resources. I insist that legal regulations, instruments like these, allow us to be much more effective in achieving a political objective. I believe that here the whole House - regardless of what I vote on - will be sensitive to these kinds of demands from certain social sectors - some of which I have already mentioned and described - that complain about a situation of vulnerability or defencelessness before actors who are far more powerful than they are. The public authorities need to protect them and to ensure that such protection is effective and effective, there is a need for instruments to enable the use of resources to be effective. This is important in a country where we continue to know day after day that certain governments used the instruments not for public benefit, but for the plundering of the public coffers for the benefit of party and private interests. It is important that we leave that political culture of corruption behind and devote public resources - which are also scarce - to what is most important. And what is more important in a democratic society than protecting those who need it most? I believe that this is the foundation of a well-understood democracy, a substantive democracy that understands that a government of a country cannot allow social sectors without access to fundamental goods and services that guarantee a right to a dignified life. The right to decent life must be guaranteed and, therefore, the public authorities need the instruments. I would like to thank all those parliamentary groups that are going to validate this royal decree and announced that, of course, from this ministry we understand that it has to be treated as a bill to improve its content by the rest of parliamentary groups. I am grateful that we continue to think of these terms to protect our people, our neighbours, our friends, and ourselves. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u4	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] She has requested the use of the turn against the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress and has the floor on behalf of that group, Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u5	Thank you, President. Minister, today brings us the validation of Royal Decree 1/2021 of 19 January on consumer and user protection in the face of situations of social and economic vulnerability. An approval that takes place, that is, few weeks after Royal Decree 37/2020, which also amended the General Law for the Defence of Consumers and Users, but in this case, curiously, it is used to modify that, and which, as we have already stated, was validated in this House last week in terms that had already been modified and changed by the Government itself. Confused, Kafkian I would say, but true. Our first assessment could remain in a bad legislative technique, but we would be sinning naive as it concerns the socialist and communist coalition of the PSOE and Podemos. Minister, let's be honest. Given that the decree is limited to creating the figure of the vulnerable consumer but does not contain any concrete measure, it establishes a concept but without any real effectiveness, which is like not saying or doing anything, it is discovered that you really wanted to bring the final provisions and, more specifically, the first final provision, through which you modify it is the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, to give protection to the okupas. And for that, what you needed was a royal decree that was under your areas. There is therefore nothing more vulnerable for a consumer than being under his or her jurisdiction. [[Applauds]] And why? Because it will be used by you, as often as necessary, with the aim of taking advantage of the real decrees of your irrelevant ministry to modify rules that depend on your partners; in this case, to endorse the illegal occupations as an appetizer to the interventionist and communist housing law that you claim and that Minister Ábalos and PSOE will let you do and undo, as happens with this decree and as has already happened with the abstention of the PSC in the approvals for the independence of the unconstitutional decrees-laws of Catalonia, authentic manuals of okupation that you copy accurately but that suffer from the same unconstitutionality. Minister, stop demagogy to protect the okupation and turn it into a mechanism for more access to housing and that formalizes the premise of the good communist: buy, rent or okupar. Don't fool the words. A vulnerable consumer is not an okupa, a person who is in a situation of eviction is not an okupa. Do not rely on the vulnerable people and on the dramatic health, social and economic situation that this country is experiencing and that suffer from millions of Spaniards to give the White Paper to the ocupation. An okupa is not evicted, evicted, and the vulnerable is protected. [[Applauds]] That is an eviction, the possession recovery of property belonging to another natural or legal person. In this country, 40 homes are occupied a day, and the only beneficiaries of such standards will be the mafias and the Okupas, no more or less. In the same way, Minister, that the large holders of which you always talk about are 4 million small savers, in many cases pensioners, small investors who, for example, have invested 15,000 euros of their pension fund in housing companies, or the 2.3 million Spanish small owners who recognize receiving rent returns on income declarations, because they tax on this income, giving an idea of the significant size of the number of owners in Spain. It will be the Government that does nothing but shamefully shift its own responsibilities to the citizenry. What he has to do is his duties and drive the construction of public housing or acquire privately owned properties in order to increase affordable housing. This decree on housing has two packages of measures and each one involves a direct attack on private property and our constitutional fundamental rights, so it will not count on our support. The first is the expropriation of the temporary use of a dwelling before a non-compensation procedure, as a measure to stop evictions for non-rental. And the second is the legalization or officialization of housing okupation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an important substantive debate for our model of coexistence which you want to change to return to Marxism and which we from the People's Party face to defend it. A liberal State has four fundamental values: life, freedom, equality and private property. Private property, the result of the individual effort of the free individual. Yes, effort and free men and women, something you want to erase by taking us towards collectivization. But that's not where we're going. Sometimes like this, when we have to interpret the legal norms, we must also resort to the authors themselves who at other times gave birth to these laws. Therefore, those of us who are part of this power of the State and have been entrusted with the enormous responsibility of making laws or validating their decrees to become laws, we must recognize the legacy of great legislators of the past and read carefully the reasons that prompted them to protect our rights to establish a liberal democracy, which is what we have in this country, including the right of ownership that this royal decree calls into question. Portalis said, one of the three drafters of the French Civil Code, in 1804, in the preliminary presentation he read to the Council of State in the process of approving the same rule, that man is born with needs. It must be able to feed and dress, it is therefore entitled to the things necessary for its subsistence and preservation. And that's the origin of the property right. No one would have planted, sown or built if each individual had not been guaranteed the peaceful possession of his or her territory. In these words, ladies and gentlemen, written more than two hundred years ago, but in full force, there are two concepts that are inseparable: legal certainty and private property, which from the government are attacked by this decree, which we oppose. Our Constitution guarantees the principle of legal certainty in its article 93, which I have no doubt that you know well, and the Constitutional Court itself has defined this principle precisely. Legal certainty implies that the legislator must pursue clarity and not regulatory confusion, he must ensure that on the subject on which he is entitled legal operators and citizens are aware of what to abide by, and he must flee from causing objectively confusing situations. And, honestly, this royal decree if it has anything is confusion to generate legal insecurity for the Spaniards. In addition to the Civil Code, article 33 of the Constitution itself contains the right to private property. Of course, the current right to property has to be seen in the light of the social and democratic rule of law, it cannot be otherwise, but that is why the property that carries that social function must be guaranteed you, the government, and not the citizens and the owners, as you claim. That function did not mean that the owner of his rights could be stripped. A good example of this is that not even the administrations when exercising expropriation power can do so without paying the rightful owner justice and other compensation, which, as you do and establish in this royal decree, violates private property. And that right is not only defined in domestic law, also in international law, and is protected, for example, in the Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which clearly states in its article 1: 'Every natural or moral person has the right to respect for his or her property. No one may be deprived of his property except because of public utility and under the conditions laid down by law and the general principles of international law.' One fact that shows the relevance of the inclusion of this right in the Convention is that 20% of the judgments handed down by the European Court of Human Rights concern private property in the face of the violations it suffers. One of those judgments, the most relevant, was in 1979, which concluded that the right to dispose of property was a traditional and fundamental element of property rights. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest enemy with whom you count the right to dispose of the goods, your goods, the fruit of your work and your effort, is the phenomenon of the ocupation, which you want to protect and promote, paralyzing when it is a consequence of the crime of usurpation and legitimizing and allowing its ocupation. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party will always defend the right of the owners against the attacks they receive from some governments, as we have done with the unconstitutionality appeal promoted by this parliamentary group in relation to the decree-law of the Government of the Generalitat 17/2019 of 23 December, and whose ruling declares the unconstitutionality and nullity of a large part of the article underlying that decree and as we will do with this decree against which we will bring the consequent remedy of unconstitutionality. [[Applauds]] A rule that, like today's one brought by the Government of Sánchez to validation, was nothing more than an opaque mechanism to consolidate the illegal occupation of housing in Catalonia, violating the right to property and stealing citizens' right to protect them from the law. Minister, the protection of private property is a matter of principle for the rule of law and the property of citizens. If you do not defend it as a government, we will do so and protect it from the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u6	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] We're moving on to position-fixing. Mr Mazón Ramos spoke on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we will be voting in favour of the validation of this decree-law. It deals with three issues that we have no objection to. The first and foremost is the definition of the concept of vulnerability, which contains provisions of a European directive, and the interim treatment it does to prevent evictions at this time for those affected in a particular way by the crisis of the coronavirus and, moreover, through a judge. I think it is appropriate, just as the figure of the decree-law is appropriate because in Cantabria we had to wait to adapt the autonomous law of defense of consumers or users to an ordinary processing, but with this modification the majority of provisions are of a basic nature and can be applied. The provisions of the hydraulic public domain and of the water law are reasonable, they come to us all, as well as the annex, because it serves to correct errors that can be excusable but have serious consequences. This annex has an aspect that affects Cantabria, especially the port of Santander, as it had run out of fees and was in a very difficult situation. Today, which we are talking about vulnerability, I would also like to highlight the vulnerability situation of the Spanish ports because of the Brexit, which are having very serious problems and is going to get worse if the Government does not address these issues. In particular, the port of Santander is much worse than the average and is very affected because it has a traffic of ferries, passengers and considerable goods, which is key in the activity of the port, just as the port is also key in the weight that it has in the regional GDP. This is a characteristic that must be valued when taking action to combat the economic crisis. We must aim at the target and not at the whole indiscriminately. The same goes for vaccines, where I think you can also tune up a lot more when it comes to aiming. Minister, I hope that from the government they appreciate what we say here, that these are not just speeches we make for our voters, but that we hope that they will be fulfilled because otherwise, we are not satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u8	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, this decree is not made to favor vulnerable consumers, this decree is made to put a silver bridge to illegal okupation. That is the end of this decree and that is why we cannot support it, because you have so few scruples as a government that you did not care anything about using the figure of vulnerable consumers, something in which we should have agreed all of us who are part of this House if you had sought consensus and had not used a decree bearing the name of vulnerable people, to put a red carpet on the okupas. The Okupas must be persecuted with the force of law, and what you are doing is favoring them with the weight of government decrees. That's what you're doing with a decree like this. It is clear that you vulnerable people do not care too much, and we have seen it in the cold wave that we have recently experienced in our country, when the light has increased by 30%, and we have seen a government - which before expressed its perplexity because previous governments could not act when the light was rising by 10% - crossed hands and having forgotten everything they came to defend. It is obvious that you did not come here to defend people, you came to defend your positions within power. That's what we've been seeing all along here. All those who said before that the government favored electrics when the light went up by 10%, or that the government was indecent because the light went up by 10% and did not act, I imagine that today they will be considered three times more indecent than that government or three times as close to the electrics as that government they were criticizing, because the light has risen exactly three times as much as they were criticizing at the time. In the end, we are seeing how the Government is continually shifting its internal struggles to a regulatory level and creating permanent legal uncertainty, because this decree amends another decree, nothing less than a month earlier. You are bringing monthly policy changes here and that creates enormous legal uncertainty. This shows that this decree does not try to defend vulnerable consumers, because that was already regulated in the decree of December, but rather tries to put a red carpet on black white to the illegal octopus, because the Socialist Party has succumbed to Podemos's theses. That's what this decree does bring. We will always be defending vulnerable consumers; protecting illegal octopus, never. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u10	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you have brought us today for validation the Royal Decree Law on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability. Obviously, there is much to be told about this decree, among other things, because this decree is divided mainly into two parts. The first serves - as has already been explained - to introduce into the state legislation the state figure of the vulnerable consumer, and the second serves to modify, introduce and fine-tune a measure which provided for by Royal Decree 37/2020, in view of the problem of economically vulnerable families, subject to eviction of housing, as well as other modifications which have little or nothing to do with either the consumer or the vulnerability, but rather are adjustments, on the one hand, of the law of budgets in matters as diverse as ports, hydraulics or discharges. Let us go to the central point of the question, to which the decree itself is entitled and to which the minister has referred: the vulnerable consumer, who is the central and key figure of this decree. A figure that has or may have several characteristics and not always the same, but with the common denominator of vulnerability, mainly objective and other times more subjective and conditioned. The European Union, through its Consumer Agenda, has included it and it is the one that has recommended, precisely, that State legislation include this concept in its legislation, as it has done. As explained in the features, already in this case vulnerability is not only an economic parameter - it is also an economic parameter - but there are other factors that can make a consumer objectively vulnerable. In this sense, we share the principles that lie in the argumentary and, as a party committed to social justice and the defence of the weakest in any situation, we can only share this which is indicated in the preamble proper to the decree. However, it has certain complexities and the amendment proposed in article 3 to the General Law for the Defence of Consumers leaves an excessively open definition. It has already been said, it does not compromise much, because what it does is a sort of definition that says exactly: '... they have the consideration of vulnerable consumers in relation to specific consumer relations, those natural persons who, individually or collectively, because of their characteristics, personal, economic, educational or social needs or circumstances, are, even territorially, sectorally or temporarily, in a special situation of subordination, defencelessness or lack of protection that prevents them from exercising their rights as consumers under conditions of equality'. We understand all the concepts, all the words, all the things he says, but the question is, what are those characteristics? and what are those circumstances? and when does defencelessness and unprotection occur? I mean, we can all have a mental drawing, we perfectly understand when we see that this can be, but a legal text has to fine-tune further. We believe that, in view of the nature of vulnerability, it is lacking in some respects precisely so that this vulnerable consumer enjoys full legal certainty and so that a vulnerable consumer has no problem defining himself as such before any competent authority, whether administrative or judicial. The presentation explains the casuistics that we all understand and share: persons with disabilities, elderly people without a digital culture, single-parent families, migrant people with problems in understanding a language, children, adolescents, people with low cultural levels. Of course, not all of them are the same, but each of them has different vulnerabilities to certain counterparts who do know their shortcomings. For this reason, these people may feel inferior in terms of purchasing or buying a product of any kind. Everything that leads to preventing this vulnerability from being an advantage to one of the parties will be welcomed by us, but it must be realized. It is precisely as a result of these issues that I asked you last week when you appeared in the Commission what you intend to do to end the semi-immunity of some service companies and overcome the helplessness and helplessness that many users feel in situations that they do not understand or accept, but they are given no alternative. We believe that the measures introduced in this decree leave in a legal limbo the security that is to be given. It seems to us that they lack rigour and determination in many cases, so we will ask for processing as a bill, so that we can fine-tune all these issues, because we believe that there are indeed vulnerable consumers, and we must take them into account. Finally, the final provision is another issue, but since it is, I think we have to comment on it, and some have made their speech precisely on that basis. I believe that the amendment to Article 1a is a debate that was already consumed last week, an article that includes the suspension during the state of alarm of the eviction procedure and of the throws for economically vulnerable people without housing alternative in the cases of paragraphs 2, 4 and 7 of Article 250.1 of Law 1/2000 of 7 January, to which you incorporate the case of those others in which the eviction brings cause of criminal proceedings. In turn, they have added point (c) to paragraph 7, which reflects the fact that entry or stay in an occupied property has been made by intimidation and/or violence against persons. We understand that the pandemic situation has increased the dramatic situation of people and families who were themselves in a vulnerable situation and we need to give them a housing response - in that we have no doubt - but there are reasons we do not share that deserve a favorable consideration, and my colleague Mikel Legarda made it clear last week. We do not share that part of the cost of the housing solution is gravitate over the owner of the housing that is intended to be launched. This is a measure that we do not share - and I quote the same words of my colleague - from a legislative policy perspective: 'The Basque Parliamentary Group of the Basque Nationalist Party already supports a public policy on families in need so that they do not stay on the street in situations of pandemic, but we cannot share that the housing alternative falls on those who claim the recovery of their property or rights...'. We have to solve that issue, that of one another and that of another. It can't fall on the same side all the time. I think we're going to look at that too. Finally, I want to say that a decree is an important tool, but it cannot be a tailor's drawer. So let's shape it up. This decree should have been what it should have been, not other issues, and less to correct and make mistakes that have been made at other times. We will vote in favour and we will vote in favour of it being validated as a bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u12	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. It has already been said here that we are indeed faced with a royal decree-law proposing the amendment of the Royal Decree-law 11/2020, which was given to protect vulnerable groups during the first wave of the pandemic. We vote in favour of that Royal Decree-Law 11/2020, precisely because of that principle that we share that no one should stand behind and want to make useful policy, save lives and save jobs. It is noteworthy that in that Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 the People's Party abstained and yet in the Royal Decree-Law 37/2020, which we saw last Thursday here, will vote against when it was simply a matter of adapting the Royal Decree-Law 11/2020 to this dramatic third wave, simply suspending eviction procedures with regard to vulnerable groups. This royal decree-law came forward with the citizens' vote, it was a royal decree-law that we understood to establish very reasonable balance criteria between the owner and the vulnerable person of the tenant. The vulnerability of the lessor was also assessed, this situation is credited to the judge and to the lawyer of the Administration of Justice, they provide compensation for the owner, who could not exercise this right of eviction, and most importantly: the cessation of eviction proceedings was not allowed in cases where the okupation of the property was a criminal offence, but a criminal offence under article 245 of the Criminal Code, concerning the usurpation of immovable property. Therefore, there was a certain balance. It has already been said here, this royal decree-law that you bring here today - and let us not confuse the two debates, that of the Royal Decree-law 37/2020 with this - commit the troupe of justifying one of the alleged occupation, as this time the People's Party is right in its speech, which is the real reason for this royal decree-law. Mr. Garzón, the definition of vulnerable collective or the list of rights contained in article 8 of this law are useless because it is the autonomous communities that have already defined that concept of vulnerable collective and have established a relationship of rights in relation to that collective, but rights of truth, not those generic and programmatic things that you include in this royal decree-law and that you only use as an excuse for those who we vote against to tell us that we do not want to support vulnerable collectives. Do not engage in this childish reasoning because my group voted in favour of Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 and is in force, Decree-Law which does indeed protect vulnerable groups, and at the same time owners, not like this Royal Decree-Law 1/2021. Why? Because article 245 of the Criminal Code, which covers the crime of usurpation of immovable property, has two paragraphs: the first, refers to when you access housing with violence or intimidation - an aspect that you have not been able to legitimize because it would already be the end -, but it also has a second paragraph that says: 'He who occupies, without due authorization, a building, dwelling or building that is not a dwelling, or who maintains in them against the will of his owner...'. However, for you this is legitimate, something that the Criminal Code in its article 245 says is a crime. You say that you can't drive this gentleman out of the street, that he's being held in other people's property against the owner's will without violence and intimidation. The State is protecting the offender from the rightful owner of the real estate! In my life as a lawyer, I've seen such nonsense. [[Applauds]] For you to understand, I'm going to set the following example. This is nothing more than a theft from the use of real estate because I, who am the owner, do not let me use the real estate. You go down the street - imagine it's a piece of furniture - and a thief steals your wallet from you, without violence, without intimidation. A cop comes running after him, captures him and says, "Give Mr. Garzón the wallet he stole. And he answers, "No, we're in a pandemic and I'm a vulnerable group, I don't have to return it. And you answer: But if the wallet is mine... For this is what you have done with the real estate in this Royal Decree-Law 1/2021: you do not have to return the possession of the real property to the legitimate owner. The problem of otupation is solved by the proposal made by citizens in their law, which is a rapid procedure of eviction, an effective fight against the mafias, procedures that in turn also protect vulnerable groups by increasing the municipal social fund of housing. Municipalities have to build social housing, they have to give housing solutions, but do not make us fall into the false disjunctive that the only possibility to protect vulnerable groups is the ocupation of property that legitimately belongs to another person, because then they become vulnerable to the owner, unbalance the balance. There are other solutions. I read in a press article that this is a problem that particularly affects Catalonia. You will allow me on the dates on which we are placing special emphasis on the fact that in Catalonia the ocupations with regard to Madrid are sixfold and tripled with regard to Andalusia. On Fonollar Street, number 10, in Barcelona, you will find the Okupa Office. Get on the website and you'll see that there, if you older people want to be okupas, you have a number of important tips for not vacating them. And you support this, you're supporting them. You are favoring octopus and no one is surprised, but what is surprising is that these gentlemen admit this. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] They've become negativists of the octopus. They say that other groups deny gender-based violence, climate change, and even that there is a virus, but they deny okupation, they say it's not an important problem. You know why? Because in Barcelona, which is the city most punished by octopus, the phenomenon mainly takes place in the red belt of Barcelona. However, these gentlemen and you must live in better neighborhoods, in large chalets, so that you do not suffer the occupation or see it and therefore deny it. It is regrettable, absolutely regrettable, and it is immoral, absolutely immoral, to protect a criminal from the victim of a crime. Private property is not a crime, but even knowing that you do not admit private property, have also committed a crime by neighbors who have to live with okupas that destroy the coexistence of the community of owners, with the insecurity of what will happen to their children when they go out to rest? Have they committed a crime, too? Is that why you protect criminals? I tell you more: it is illegal because the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act oblige the State Security Forces and Bodies to make reparation for the effects of the crime. It cannot be that the State legitimizes the effects of an offence by protecting the offender and punishing the legitimate owner. Stop demagogy, stop protecting criminals, don't take away homes from people who have had so much hard work to buy.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u14	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u15	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u16	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, the real decree that brings us to validate introduces the concept of a vulnerable consumer within the existing legislation on consumers and users, a precision that we believe is necessary and that will serve as a basis for future regulatory developments and we also understand that the management of different social protection policies is more appropriate. More dubious is the need to do so through decree-law, a way of legislating to which this Government seems to be ill-accustomed. We agree to a large extent with the analysis of the situation in the preamble to the norm and, in particular, with the fact that it is essential to give greater protection to people in vulnerable situations. But we must not forget that, although the COVID-19 pandemic and the economic crisis that has arisen from it have dramatically aggravated many extreme situations, insecurity and social vulnerability already existed before and, but appropriate policies are implemented, will continue to do so afterwards. At this time and for the duration of the restrictions, launches, foreclosures or supply cuts are prohibited. It suits us, but what happens when the epidemiological situation normalizes? The economic crisis will continue there and there will surely be more people in vulnerable situations, especially in those groups and groups that end up paying for the setbacks of economic policies that are not designed precisely for the social majority and the people. Older people will have to stretch their pensions to reach the end of the month or to help keep their children and grandchildren unemployed. Once the ERTEs are completed, unemployment will surely increase overall and it will be the women, as usual, who suffer the most as a result of the higher rate of temporaryity and precariousness at work. For all this, what does the Government propose? We understand that addressing the health crisis is a priority at this time and that its peculiarities must be addressed, but if it is not remedied, all this ad hoc legislation will disappear and we will return to the previous situation, although with a greater economic crisis and therefore with greater social consequences. And the question is: what basis is the government laying to prevent this from happening? Frankly, we are particularly concerned about some policies that are announced or profiled, we are concerned that this situation will worsen further, because if they must apply the old liberal prescriptions to receive European funds, we will end up seeing how the public pension system is the currency of exchange so that large state enterprises, including those of IBEX 35, can receive a large economic injection at the expense of new social sacrifices. Finally, we will vote in favour, but we are repeatedly noting that this government is always half-hearted when it comes to social protection policies - not to say transformative ones? - and, on the contrary, it is very submissive to the interests of large corporations. Your performance, Mr. Garzón, with gambling houses is not the best presentation letter if you want to convince us otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u18	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u19	Thank you, President. Minister, we agree with the need to regulate the concept of the consumer, the user and the vulnerable consumer. It seems normal to us, it seems acceptable to us and it seems necessary to us. But it is true that the consequences of this concept are not sufficiently spelled out in the royal decree-law. That's why we're also going to ask for processing as a bill and, as you've announced, that's how it's going to be. In any case, we are not going to vote in favour of this royal decree-law for two reasons, because beyond this inconcretion, which can be remedied in the legislative procedure, the final provisions of this royal decree-law-two of them - at least are curious. With the final provision first we disagree. By means of this royal decree-law they amend Royal Decree-law 37/2020, before it has been validated in this same Congress. In addition, they modify it into a concept with which we do not agree because they suspend evictions in the event that they have occurred through some crimes. In some crimes they maintain non-suspension and in some crimes they maintain suspension. If you normalize that committing certain offences is acceptable, which is what you are doing with this amendment, be honest and courageous and amend article 245 of the Criminal Code. Plant it here and see if there are majorities or not, but don't go through the back door. Another thing that may seem anecdotal, but which conveys the lack of consideration of this Government in relation to this House, is what they are doing with the second final provision. The final provision second, first point, with which we can also disagree, responds to the following. I'm gonna give you two minutes or a twenty-five minute to get this straight. This House deals with the General Budgets of the State, with an additional sixth provision, and the same day that the Senate approves them the Government approves a royal decree-law with a content similar but different to that of that provision, but does not suspend the sixth additional provision of the General Budgets of the State, but uses a real decree-law later, this one, which corrects Royal Decree 36, the one that last week was approved here with VOX's accompanied right abstaining. This royal decree-law, which modifies the General Budgets of the State, ends up being remedied by the royal decree-law that we validate today. Someday someone will study this in relation to how laws should not be made and to have minimal respect for the House of Commons. If you understand that you have to change the General Budgets of the State, at least explain it to all those who have supported them. In any case, we are going to abstain and we are going to try to broaden some issues regarding the concept of...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u20	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u21	I'm done, Mr. President. ...vulnerable consumer and modify the first final provision. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u22	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies. I can never read anything I prepare because with the course of the discussions I must always modify what I was going to tell them. They bring a salad decree, a decree that has a little bit of everything. It has the definition of what a vulnerable consumer is and knows that it is a definition that seems to us to be correct by all understanding because in some way it contains many situations that were not contemplated, the only thing that happens is that we with basic state legislation already know that we are being misled because we consider that they always apply it excessively. Let us then see how it is concrete and what respect it has for national regulations within the State. From this perspective, we also welcome the incorporation of the concepts of the new European Consumer Agenda. The truth is that we are not going to go into the modification of the basic prices of the discharge control fee of the consolidated text of the Water Act nor are we going to go into the amendment of the General Budgets of the State, which certainly does nothing that we approve, but we are going to go into the issue of evictions. And we're going to go in and say that demagogy is to say that one day you're going to leave the house and when you get fabric they'll be busy and that this text allows it. That's demagogy. [[Applauds]] Demagogic is to say that it will happen to you in the second residence, because this text also previews it and cannot be. And demagogy is talking about Barcelona, where we have more evictions than anywhere and certainly more ocupations, but it is that, gentlemen, the price of housing and the disaster in which our housing laws have plunged us makes the pressure in Barcelona brutal. I'm from that red belt, I live in The Carmel, and you know what happens to the octopus? That those who defend the Okupas are the neighbors because they are the ones who occupy them. They are busy because there is no way to access a home with these valid titles in right of lease or property, because there are popular classes that do not have access to the home. Those same neighbors defend the Okupas and are the Okupas. There is a network of solidarity between all of them and they do not deserve to feel that they are delinquent because they are not oozing used floors, because the social function of the property you continually forget and because certainly - I must say - you stand well to be two hundred years old, which are the arguments that you bring to this House; you stand very well. [[Applauds]] Close. There is one issue that I cannot ignore because it has also been discussed. You, this House, do not at all respect the legitimacy of the chambers chosen and voted by the Catalans. [[Rumors]] That's right. We have provided ourselves with a battery of laws that guarantee housing for our citizens and you believe you have the right to take everything to the Constitutional for annulment. But do you know what's going on? That the social reality of Barcelona and Catalonia responds to a citizenry, to a society that agrees with these budgets, and they should be ashamed, being minorities there, to carry everything systematically and always to the Constitutional. You have no right to do so. [[Protests]] Yes, of course, they have the formal right.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u24	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u25	But do you know what's going on? That between formal law, substantive law and legitimacy there is no coincidence, and that is dramatic for institutions. I conclude quickly by saying that, in fact, our Government, our Parliament, made a law on the defence of housing with urgent measures because they were needed. We legislate according to the problems that exist in the streets, in the villages and in the regions, not according to the private interests of the elites who have those properties that they do not actually use and that they actually occupy. [[Applauds]] As I said, it is unfortunate to know that everything we do for our people is going to meet with the Government or parliamentary groups, that they are going to take it to the Constitutional and you know what happens? That the referee is paid and that it is a game that we cannot play under the same conditions. Faced with that, we have only one alternative to survive: it's called self-determination and independence. [[Applauds]] And it is wrong for me to have to say this in a decree on consumers and survival, because in the end not everything is solved with that, but the lack of respect for our decisions, our self-government and our existence makes that the only solution. I wanted to talk about consumers, I wanted to talk about housing and they made me talk about the nation. I don't like it, but there's no other remedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u26	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs López Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u27	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Confederal Group will, of course, welcome the adoption of this royal decree and await and wish its validation today in this House. As Minister Garzón has rightly explained, one of the most important changes to this royal decree-law is the extension of the description of the legal figure of the vulnerable consumer beyond the strictly economic. This change was necessary; not only was it necessary, it was urgent, because we must correct them market dysfunctions, in this case information asymmetries, which produce disadvantageous situations for people in vulnerable situations. We know that companies are not bad in themselves, that there are companies that are socially and environmentally responsible, but we also have examples, too many, in which this is not the case, examples of deception, of half-truths, of concealment of information and, ultimately, of abuses by companies that take advantage of the situation of inferiority in which we sometimes find ourselves. And I say expressly'sometimes we meet', in the first person of the plural, to emphasize that the effects of this royal decree-law are beneficial to each and every one of us, and also, and I'm sorry, to those who are going to vote against, and looked to the Catalan right and the Spanish right. To those who say so much that they are proud to defend all the Spaniards - Spanish, Basque, Catalan, Andalusian, as everyone feels - I will tell you that voting against this royal decree is going against the Spaniards, it is going against the Catalans. [[Applauds]] This is important because what you are doing right-wing is wanting to identify the concept of vulnerability from a liberal point of view, but it is equated with a pejorative and guilty situation. I say pejorative because, as in England of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, and later in our country - by the way, in England we have a lot of advantage in the study of social classes - people develop attitudes with legislative consequences in order not to identify with the working class because they considered it a bearer of evil. You want to do the same with situations of vulnerability; you want to think that people in a situation of vulnerability are vague and evildoers, but, don't be mistaken, you may also be in a situation of vulnerability. And I told them that it is guilty, and this is because of its Catholic and also liberal origins; for example, you say that if someone does not have the light responsible it is that person, that person is doing something wrong, although you know that it is not so, although we all know that the responsibility is, for example, of Endesa. Mrs Gamarra - who is not here - spoke before socialism, communism. Learn, Mrs Gamarra - you are not here, but your colleagues will tell you -; you would have to learn something from socialism, from liberalism. I'm going to talk to him about the bases, in theory, of liberalism, and liberalism says that well-being is the fruit of effort; then, on the contrary, if you're in a situation of discomfort, it's that you're not trying, that you're a bum - a bum and a maleant, does that sound to you, by the way? But I am not going to enter here because with the argument that you make - wrong - all this is stripped of any glimpse of reality; people are not only the fruit of ourselves, but also of society, of the environment in which we live, and in this sense the real decree-law defines vulnerability as it is, a situation in which we find ourselves not only by our actions but also by the society in which we live. There was a legal vacuum and this definition, in the sense of the European Union, was urgent. This royal decree not only speaks of situations of vulnerability in general but also refers to a specific one during the state of alarm, and is the situation of people who cannot access housing. And not only does the royal decree-law, gentlemen, it turns out that so does the Constitution. I would ask Congressional services to be able to give a new constitution to the gentlemen of the PP because they have broken it; where do you have section 47? Article 47 states that every Spaniard has the right to decent housing. Do you have only the pages of private property? Where is the right to housing? Please acquire a new Constitution and then you will be able to speak with property. You say that what this royal decree does is to let people occupy, but it is that people do not okupa. Let's see, there are them, of course there are people who okupa, but there are the few. The people, the people to whom this royal decree refers are the people with vulnerability. You are going to vote that not because you are afraid, from your point of view no longer only liberal but also neoliberal, of losing the capital you accumulate, your first, your second, your fifth residence, worse than this royal decree goes this way, will ensure that no one stays on the street. If you're afraid of occupying a flat, imagine what it's like to be on the street. Don't confuse people because this royal decree doesn't go this way. It doesn't allow people to steal or occupy homes. In the time I have left. Mr Bal, you have said that in your work as a lawyer you have never seen such a thing, for get used to it, because you are in front of a progressive government and things like this, which guarantees people's rights, you will see them very often. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u28	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is miserable how they take advantage of the tragic situation that is leaving us this pandemic and the consequences of the deplorable management that this government is carrying out to impose on us its communist agenda. [[Applauds]] You, who came to storm the skies, have ended up assaulting the Spaniards; by the way, including the forgiveness of the EUR 64 billion with which the People's Party rescued the boxes, looted by politicians and trade unionists. [[Applauds]] Politicians and trade unionists who did not know or read a balance sheet; children of bipartisanism. Do you remember when they promised in campaign that when they ruled, they would get back to the last cent and give it to their families? For what they have done is to be accomplices of that plunder, because they have forgiven them. They have forgiven their debts to the boxes, that is, to their friends. Social shield say? Social shield for the only growing industry, political industry, and social shield for criminals. We are presented with a royal decree-law of - I quote textually - protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability. Among the definitions that make consumers vulnerable are women, per se, as if women were idiots because they were women. Anyway, the usual. [[Applauds]] This royal decree-law is unconstitutional for two reasons. First we are trying to circumvent a precept that has nothing to do with its title, thus violating article 86 of the Constitution, which regulates the royal decree-laws. They cannot say that they come to talk about protecting vulnerable consumers, such as the elderly, and end up protecting the evildoers who occupy their homes. On the other hand, it frontally violates article 33 of the Constitution, the right to private property. The right to private property is a fundamental right in democracy; moreover, without property there is no democracy. Expropriating the homes of the Spaniards to give coverage to the Okupas is what you understand as a social shield. Minister, 95% of rented housing is in the hands of private owners, no vulture funds or stories; it is their savings, their effort, the small pension fund that families have to complete their income. And in Spain 2 million social rental homes are missing just to reach Europe's average. [[applause]] But they don't stay in the houses, they're not 2 million houses, they're 2 million families that the state should be giving a solution to. Whether you are unable to give a solution does not mean that it has to be at the cost of confiscating the property and savings of the Spaniards, who have suffered so much to obtain their property. You claim that it is the Spaniards who bear the cost of their null social policies, that they continue to pay the IBI, the community and spills, and that the Okupas, whom you protect - their children - destroy their homes, tear up their kitchens, tear up their toilets, that the communities of neighbors suffer with impotence that vandalize their portals, vandalize their common areas, cling to their supplies and mount narcopists in their blocks. [[Applauds]] But, of course, the chavistas are always on the dark side and the Socialists, or they swallow to stay in the armchairs, or they have already been abducted by their 'community' policies. You, Mr Garzón, have described tourism as precarious and of low added value. Are you going to add value to tourism by putting okupas in hotels? [[Applauds]] The tourism industry in Spain, Mr Garzón, is a global reference thanks to our immense historical and cultural heritage, our beaches, our mountains, our climate, our rich gastronomy and especially the great professionals we have in tourism. [[Applauds]] Students from Spain and all over Europe come to our schools, come to our hotels, our restaurants, our bars, our kitchens; from waiters to managers. We know you only frequent five-star hotels, but I suggest you go to a three-star hotel anywhere in Spain and to a three-star hotel anywhere else in the world, and then compare the level of facilities and compare the level of services. [[Applauds]] But far from helping this industry, of which 3 million families are now in ruin, you demonize it and from your ministry deal with the Okupas, that is, the Okupas who have not exercised violence against people, because those who break doors and break houses, those are welcome. The French Government has just approved the procedure for the eviction of okupas in forty-eight hours; this was done last Friday and is what defends VOX: the okupas, kick in the ass. I mean, is Macron a fairie? Do you know who vulnerable consumers are? Those who are deceived when they buy a product and, in their case, their voters, the workers, the most vulnerable classes and the middle classes, whom they have come to spoil, to keep them where they are without leaving the opportunity to grow by keeping to the minimum, preventing their growth, telling them that their merit and their ability to strive will not lead them to prosper. Because you want to be servants; you want to be vulnerable and eternally vulnerable consumers. But, of course, you have gotten into a building that is not yours, uses and spends resources that are not yours and uses them as if they were yours believing they are yours. You are the perfect definition of what you are defining, you are an okupa minister. [[Applauds]] And the Okupas that they consume is the property of others.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u30	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u31	I'm done, Mr. President. This royal decree is a disparate and if this legislative savagery succeeds from VOX we will appeal to the Constitutional Court, because in VOX we will always be on the side of the law and order, we will always be on the side of the worker, we will always be on the side of the families; in VOX we will always be on the side of the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u32	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Sánchez Jódar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we begin by saying that the minister is an okupa and these statements end up eventually occupying the seat of Congress by believing that he is illegally occupied, delegitimizing the institutions. [[Applauds]] Welcome, Minister, a legitimate minister, elected by all Spaniards, remember him. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of vulnerable consumers requires the urgent adoption of the measures provided for in this royal decree, and you know, of course you know, that is the serious thing, you know perfectly well that we owe it and we owe it to the Spanish citizen, because although it is true that before the pandemic the social demand in regulating the concept of vulnerable consumers already existed, at this time it is more necessary than ever, since situations of restriction of mobility, isolation, disease or other measures aimed at containing the pandemic are causing a particular vulnerability of consumers and users, who were not or were not, and now, as a result of the crisis, that situation is aggravated. Look, the regulation of the vulnerable consumer figure, which is basically what we are subject to today's validation, has been politically driven by Congress on several occasions at the request of the Socialist Group, the first in the XII Legislature, and later in this same legislature my group presented and submitted to debate in the Commission an initiative to urge the Government to regulate and provide greater protection to vulnerable consumers. But why? Well, look, first of all because it is urgent to put an end to a legal vacuum in our state legislation, such as the lack of legal recognition of the figure of the vulnerable consumer person, and, secondly, because European legislation also obliges us to protect consumers by incorporating the mandates of the New Consumer Agenda. And, ladies and gentlemen, we must also do so urgently because the social and economic impact of the pandemic on consumer practices requires greater protection for vulnerable consumers. But, of course, unfortunately this little or nothing matters to the bench of the right. Do you know who this decree really protects? This decree protects consumers living in rural areas without access close to financial institutions or other services. It protects older people, who don't understand online shopping. It protects low-educated consumers and also minors for their lack of defence against commercial communication. Or those with difficulty accessing technological resources in their online training. People with food intolerances or allergies who need additional information in food purchases are also protected. With this decree, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time the law expressly includes the obligation on the part of companies to provide the necessary support to vulnerable consumers so that they can correctly understand the content of the contracts they sign. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the vulnerable consumer protection contained in this decree comes to be added to that which this Government has approved in other sectors such as housing or energy, within the framework of the social shield established in order to ensure a just exit from the crisis caused by the pandemic. This is the fundamental content of this decree, do not seek because there is no more. Ladies and gentlemen, the latest published studies place Spain's vulnerable consumer population rate at 39%, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, are voting against protecting this 39% of the population, and you are doing so by lying in the parliamentary seat when you say that this decree gives the Okupas a free bar or protects the criminals. I hope you have enjoyed spreading and infusing fear, fear and anguish among Spanish families because it is the only thing that would explain the nonsense of the hoaxes and lies that have been unleashed in this rostrum this morning. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, it is not true that criminals are being protected by this decree; the royal decree-law does not violate the right to private property, it does not paralyze anything of its own accord; only the judge, if he considers it appropriate, is empowered to give three months to social services to seek a housing solution and, in this way, not to leave minors, dependents or victims of gender-based violence on the street. And if in three months no solution is given to the launch, the launch continues. I repeat, it is only in cases where there are minors, dependents or victims of gender-based violence who are economically vulnerable, which you intend to leave on the street without a housing alternative. [[Applauds]] And why do they give themselves three months? We give three months because it has been infinite times that social services have stated that they do not know about these cases or that, when they do, they do not have time to give a solution. It is not an invitation to okupation nor is there effect called, it is only during the state of alarm and for the evaluated cases that occur before the entry into force of the royal decree-law, that is, before the publication in December. I'll give them a case. Look, just yesterday the police evicted some Okupas in the town of Caldes de Montbui. [[Show a photocopy]] Therefore, the evictions of the Okupas can continue; they continue to occur; it is legal to do so. This decree applies only if they have occupied a dwelling of a large fork: natural or legal persons holding more than ten dwellings. In addition, it is obvious to say that an economic compensation has also been established which large forks can request. But, of course, Mrs Gamarra - who did not wish to listen to the rest of the speakers in this rostrum at the point where she intervened - takes advantage of her intervention to scare the small owners, when this decree really only affects the big forks. Well, either he doesn't find out, or he knows and he lies. In either case, a very serious situation in the face of statements made by the spokesman for the main opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, no; the priority of this decree is not the protection of criminals, it is the protection of economically vulnerable people - dependent, minors or victims of gender-based violence - in the midst of the pandemic during the state of alarm. Trying to criminalize this situation is miserable. So stop penalizing poverty by praising unfounded fears among Spanish citizens and pathetically defending causes that do not need you to defend them because you are not in danger. Do you know when housing in Spain was really at risk? [[Show a photocopy]] When the People's Party decided to sell to the vulture funds more than two thousand houses with the tenants inside. [[Applauds]] Then it was the neighbors who denounced, and won. Curious concept of the constitutional right to a decent home that you have, ladies and gentlemen of the right.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u34	You must go ahead and finish, Mrs. Sanchez, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u35	I'm finishing up. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, since the very day of this government's investiture, they have not stopped causing fires. The pandemic has not mattered to them and, without truce, they seek, thirsty, to generate problems where there are none, but I assure you that, with the same resistance shown by the President of the Government of Spain, this progressive government will continue to leave its way of seeking real solutions to the real problems of the Spanish and Spanish. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u36	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u37	We now turn to the agenda item on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions, with dossier numbers 110/000044 and 110/000045. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for parliamentary groups to set their positions. I have to tell you that the opinions will be put to the vote with the rest of the votes scheduled for today. Firstly, Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Guztioi. We are pleased that the ratification of the European Social Charter will finally reach the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. We are aware of the importance of its ratification, so much so that, for that reason, Euskal Herria Bildu submitted to the Commission on Social Rights a non-legislative proposal for this letter to be initialled. The ratification of the European Social Charter is necessary and inescapable from all points of view. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the ratification of the revised European Social Charter, and I say again that we are happy about it; but we must also point out that it is half-happy, because the updating of that letter also includes a Protocol on collective complaints which would allow the signatory States to report to the European Committee on Social Rights if they failed to comply with what is stipulated in the letter; and we have no reference to the protocol, beyond the public statements indicating that the Government also intends to subscribe. We would have liked the ratification of the letter to come together with the endorsement of the protocol, as we requested in our non-legislative proposal. So, today, Minister, the signing of the Collective Claims Protocol remains a major outstanding subject. The ratification of both documents, called for by trade union organizations and entities in the third sector of social action repeatedly, represents a necessary step forward in the protection of social rights, providing in a more ironic manner the enforcement of rights in the areas of employment, housing, health, education, social protection and welfare, and putting in place new frameworks and mechanisms for monitoring and complaint in the event of non-compliance by States. We will say yes because defending the social charter is defending social policy and the rights of the most disadvantaged; it is defending just social policies; it is ensuring the social protection of thousands of people; it is advancing the eradication of poverty against social exclusion; it is fulfilling the right to housing; it is also ensuring decent minimum pensions that allow our elderly to live a dignified life; and it is important because they have been demanding a long time and we must give them an answer. That is why, following today's adoption, we call for concrete adherence to the protocol and add the last of the necessary commitments for this chain, because citizenship is too accustomed to the failure to comply with what the States have agreed to, to the repeated violation of the regulations signed by the Spanish Government, to sign one thing and to do the opposite. Finished. Subscribe, ratify, approve, okay, it's the first step, but the real step, the most important, is its fulfillment. It will be good for the government, it will be good for politics and, above all, it will be good for society, today and the future. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u39	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Then, for the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Council of State in its opinion of 11 May 2000 stipulated that the granting of the State's consent to be bound by the European Social Charter, as revised in this case, should be authorized by the General Courts, a decision which had already been adopted by the previous Government, but which fell as a result of the dissolution of the Courts. I just want to add that we support this ratification, we believe that it is necessary not only to include the constitutionality check that has already been carried out in labour law, but also a conventionality check on those aspects of labour law that are substantially improved by the revised European Social Charter and that, therefore, we can only count on our support, understanding that it will, in any case, lead to the improvement and recognition of social rights, not already individual but also collective. That is why I also believe that there has been a mistake in referring to the fact that the collective complaints initiative procedure is not included, because I believe that the Council of Ministers' resolution itself includes the possibility of initiating such a procedure, and we therefore consider it even more necessary to ratify this text. [[the Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez, makes affirmative gestures]] That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u41	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martín Llaguno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u42	We just want to say that we are going to vote in favour of the ratification of the conventions, as we did in the Commission. The European Social Charter guarantees the rights and freedoms of citizens and we will support it, as we have done in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u43	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Twenty years after the Spanish State signed this letter, they bring its ratification to Congress; as we say in Galician, sen tempo non feu. Such a delay speaks a lot - and not quite precisely - of the interest or rather of the disinterest of the governments that have taken place in the last twenty years - therefore, of the PSOE and the PP - to take up in practice the commitments set out in the European Social Charter in relation to the social and labour rights of workers and peoples. In any case, we are glad that we are taking that step, but we cannot fail to point out that this ratification that is being brought here today is incomplete, because it should logically come together with the ratification of Additional Protocol 3, which allows us to give force with its complaint mechanisms to the commitments set out in the letter, but, perhaps out of clumsiness - which I do not believe because they doubted whether to ratify or not - this has not been so. The agreement of 10 November of the Council of Ministers, which provided for the referral of the letter to the Courts, specified in relation to Additional Protocol No 3 - I quote textually - that Spain does not ratify in the present procedure. Days later, without explaining the reason, this official publication was subject to change, so that it was pointed out that the ratification procedures for the protocol were under way. In the middle there were protests from different social and trade union organizations. In Galicia, the Galega Inter-Union Confederation, IGC, the first trade union force in my country, publicly called for ratification of Additional Protocol 3. The BNG presented two initiatives at this Congress on 23 November urging the Government to ratify them. Finally, on 22 December the Council of Ministers approved the signing of the Protocol. It seems good to us, but all these vavenes raise doubts about the real will of the Spanish Government to take specific control over the fulfilment of its duties for having ratified the European Social Charter. And that worries us because, as I said, it is this protocol that gives force to the commitments of the letter insofar as the system of collective complaints allows certain entities, social organizations, trade unions and non-governmental organizations, among others, to report directly to the European Committee of Social Rights to States that fail to comply with it both because of their legislation and practice. In short, it is an essential tool to ensure that the European Social Charter does not become a wet paper, in so far as it represents greater visibility, enforceability and effectiveness of the basic and fundamental rights it collects, because, after all, it is about guaranteeing in practice the right to work, to a wage, to a decent life and a set of rights that enable workers to advance in quality of life, well-being and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u45	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Muñoz Dalda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u46	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to everyone, except those who have been illegally financing the years I have. The health, social, economic and climate crisis, which we do not forget, makes it more necessary than ever to ratify this social charter, to protect social rights. Today we ratify the revised European Social Charter, thus fulfilling one of our international obligations and establishing mechanisms to guarantee social rights. In Unity We can celebrate this progress and we thank all the groups that voted in favour. We have been pushing for years, social organizations have been pushing for years, and today, at last, we are taking the step. We have doubts about what the People's Party is going to do, we are not quite sure what they are going to vote for. This vote was previously taken in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and you voted against it, which is not surprising to us because, if this letter had been ratified while you were in office, you would not have been able to put, for example, the one-year probationary period or maintain the inter-professional minimum wage or non-contributory pensions below the standards, nor would you have been able to violate trade union freedom and the right to collective bargaining. Today we ratify this letter and add the possibility of subscribing to the Additional Protocol on Collective Claims. Its approval is with the commitment of the Council of Ministers, and this is very important. We share its importance - other groups have already said - because this protocol gives us greater guarantees to comply with the provisions of the letter, as it allows us to submit complaints to the European Committee of Social Rights. In short, of course, we are going to vote in favour of the revised European Social Charter, we are going to vote in favour of guaranteeing social rights, whoever governs. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u47	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the spokesman for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. To intervene only to say that we will support the two opinions. Although we have disagreements about the Charter of Social Rights, as Mrs Podemos points out, when this opinion is voted on together with a regulation allowing the exchange of criminal information with Colombia, we are obliged to vote in favour of it because of our responsibility. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Finally, Mr Simancas Simancas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to support the ratification by Spain of the revised European Social Charter. We are talking about a new step forward in consolidating social rights and freedoms for all Europeans. Our support, moreover, is enthusiastic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u52	We turn to the point concerning the opinions of the Committees on legislative initiatives; in particular, the proposal for the reform of Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December 1981 on the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. It corresponds to case numbers 127/000004 of the XII Legislature and 127/000002 of the XIII Legislature. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. On 8 September, during the debate on the proposal for an organic law to reform the Cantabria Statute, to eliminate the outbursts of cantabria deputies and councillors, all political groups were very supportive of the changes, not just because they were good for Cantabria, but because they believed they were good in general, and so it should be. I already said that the final thing was that that was the feeling of the majority of the Spaniards and, also, that it had to be a step towards the de-judicialization of politics and not the other way around. In addition, I have used it to defend the honorability of politicians in general, and I hope that this will also serve. We may have suffered from the previous regulations with Councillor López Marcano, who has fortunately been rehabilitated and is again in the Government of Cantabria. It is not necessary to repeat all the arguments that were put forward, just remember the main one, which is to put an end to the privileges of some collectives and of some people and to move towards the equality of all Spaniards before the law. It is true that some spokesmen preferred to talk about anchovies, soups, even salmon, perhaps because they did not just see very clearly what that is about equality and feel more comfortable with the chascarillos, which are more entertaining issues, and not with the underlying political issues. I have to say a few words about the amendment that was withdrawn yesterday. It was an amendment that intended to give the Autonomous Community of Cantabria the power to issue decrees-laws, something that the autonomous communities of Andalusia, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Castile and León, Catalonia, Extremadura, Valencia, Asturias, Navarre already have, and that will soon also have the Community of Madrid. This is something that has proved useful during this crisis and that, precisely, it is more necessary than ever to make regulatory changes and meet the deadlines and urgency required by the European funds reaching the autonomous communities. That, among many other matters, as we are seeing today in this plenary session. The Regionalist Party of Cantabria tabled this amendment following a non-law proposal from the Cantabria Parliament urging Congress to submit it during the process of reforming the statute. Never has an amendment been more timely by its very essence and by the time we are here. However, the non-law proposal was not passed by two thirds of the votes required by the Cantabria Statute in Parliament itself, and it is that the PSOE, with whose support it would have sufficed, did not approve it, despite the limited presence you have in both the Cantabria Parliament and the politics of the autonomous community. What is unheard of - and I assume they will be billed - is their refusal when precisely this government has already passed 39 decree-laws in 2020. What about the People's Party? If in this Congress you are demonstrating your lack of responsibility with the whole country, now in Cantabria you have also joined the disastrous strategy that you are carrying. It is harmful not only for the cantabrians, who need the Government of Cantabria to act swiftly by eliminating the bureaucracy to revive the economy, but also for yourselves if you ever come to rule in Cantabria, although it seems that you have already lost all hope and what is really important is to boycott the Government in order to then be able to criticize it. Even to activate the economy, you are no longer supporting the government. They have refused to negotiate for more than three months as an active and passive party - you will know by your colleagues in Cantabria - and then they will say that we did not want to negotiate. Finally, you are going to have a very bad time explaining to the cantabres why you are voting against Cantabria, why you are not voting for Cantabria and why you voted yes to the rest of the autonomous communities. We, the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, will continue to work to do the best we can, working with the government, whatever the sign, as we have always done. At least this time, you have not opposed the question of strangulations. I would like to thank the rest of the political groups for their support for the initiative so that this change can go ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u54	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u55	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion that we are going to vote on below and on which we are debating, was adopted at the plenary session of the Autonomous Parliament in Cantabria in December 2017, as Mr Mazón has rightly said, by all the political forces present in the Parliament of Cantabria. This is something we must congratulate, we must be proud of the fact that all the parliamentary forces decide to eliminate the outbursts of politicians, because Spain is one of the few countries that retains the privilege of outbursts for its national and autonomous deputies. It is a figure that breaks the principle of equality, but it also alters the ordinary rules of article 24.2 of our Spanish Constitution, which provides that everyone has the right to the ordinary judge predetermined by law. In other words, it affects a fundamental right such as effective judicial protection. In the end, what is the strangulation? It is a privilege that we politicians have, which makes us apply a jurisdiction different from that which applies to the rest of the citizens. It is therefore an element that moves politicians away from the citizens they represent; and then we are complaining that there is this growing separation between society and its representatives. There are, of course, a lot more outbursts apart from politicians, but this is very topical because, if we take into account the fact that the appointment of the high offices of the judiciary depends on the political power and the members of this House - and we are now attending the debate, of course legally interesting, on how it is going to happen - it is logical that citizens wonder whether the appointments of the members of the General Council of the judiciary, the judges and the magistrates will be conditioned and how they will be conditioned if they have to judge us. [[The lady]] The courts that judge citizens in the first instance are the ones that have to judge politicians, exactly the same, because, if not, there would be a logical suspicion that we can get differential treatment when we are the ones who elect the judges of the high courts. And this is the question that citizens ask themselves. Therefore, this means that the citizens are attentive to these reforms, and they realize how important this change is that we are debating here today and that we are certainly going to approve the whole or the vast majority of the parliamentary groups. Eliminating the embargoes will also help to improve the functioning of the judiciary, which will result in citizens' perception of their independence. This is an obligation that we must continually preserve all elected posts. We are unsuspecting because we have defended this principle and this reform since our arrival not only in this Chamber but also, of course, in the Autonomous Chambers. We have committed ourselves to the investment pacts we have made in all autonomous governments. We closed this agreement in the government pact - which was unable to get out - with the Socialist Party and we did so with the People's Party in Mr Rajoy's parliamentary term. It is true that we have always achieved this, but the Socialist Party and the People's Party have been dragging their feet. At the moment, thanks to our momentum, we have managed to do so in Murcia - it was approved the other day in the Senate exactly the same, by a vast majority, by unanimity of all groups -, now we are going to do so in Cantabria and Andalusia and in Madrid we are very close to finalising the amendment of the statutes and returning those amendments to this House. So, ladies and gentlemen, why don't we consider doing this here, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate? What are we waiting for? What are you waiting for, gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? What are you waiting for to make this change? As we have said, we have managed to do this in Murcia and Cantabria, but it is that you have been dragging your feet in Madrid and Andalusia, dragging your feet, and you do not want to hear about these things at national level. Why, if this is something that we are approving, that our colleagues have approved - because they are party partners of all of us - in the autonomic chambers, we are not able to commit ourselves also to our colleagues in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate? Aren't we really gonna do this? Are we going to tell the citizens that there are first and second politicians now? Not only are there first-rate citizens and second-rate citizens, there are now first-rate politicians and second-rate politicians. I lead them to face this, to take the bull by the horns. Of course, we want to make this change. As I said, we closed it with the People's Party and the Socialist Party, and I think it is fair for our own party partners to do this in the National Parliament, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. We therefore hope that this Government or its parliamentary group will bring an agreement. I am sure that this will be supported by the parliamentary groups of the Government, the Socialist and the United Nations. We can - that it seems that he does not want to know anything about it now, of course; it seems that when they are faced here, in the Congress of Deputies, with the cases of their deputies this no longer matters; it seems that the reform, all that of the class and of the caste is over. You bring here an agreement of the parliamentary groups and we will vote on it and we will take it forward. Let us change and eliminate at once the suffocation of politicians in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, as we are doing in the rest of the chambers. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks to the comrades of the cantabrian Parliament and the Members of Parliament who have worked on this initiative. I will try to be brief in this speech because this is not the first time that we have discussed the need for the elimination of the havoc in this House and, above all, because today it is up to us to adopt the opinion as a result of previous work of debate and agreement. This is an initiative that the Congress has been dragging since 2017, that is, since two legislatures, with the Rajoy government, and today, at last, we will take the step for its approval. The position of our parliamentary group has always been the same - crystalline - with regard to this type of forum: we propose its elimination. This is not only an electoral proposal that we have been carrying on our agenda forever, but it is also a demand that we have inherited from the 15M movement. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is necessary to stress what it means that the autonomous parliaments themselves are the ones calling for the elimination of the outbursts; it means that our country is in a process of renewal that would have been unthinkable years ago, while, unfortunately, bipartisanism was in place. Now things are changing. First it was Canary Islands, then Murcia and now Cantabria, and more and more autonomous communities are calling for the elimination of this figure that has historically been used as a judicial shield by people who have violated the law. This initiative has been taken into consideration with only 28 abstentions and no votes against. It is something to value, because that shows that there is a cross-cutting agreement behind this reform of the statute on something that, precisely, our political formation carries in its DNA, which is the fight against privileges and inequality. I believe that in days like today the demands of the 15M are crystallized through the very requests of the territories of our country. In addition, it is crystallized that it has ended with politicians who have jumped the law being able to take refuge in the outbursts to cushion the legal consequences of their criminal acts. The elimination of these privileges is a step forward in political regeneration and builds an alternative path to impunity and corruption. We understand that the outbursts were designed to give political stability to the democratic system, but they have resulted in excessive use of this figure. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but look at the right-wing bench when I say this, because today we continue to find ourselves with many political favors, which also often conceal violations of the law, being paid with political posts. The result is that those who break the rules in the end are protected by the regime of public suffering and, of course, that cannot be naturalized in a consolidated democratic system. A few days ago we saw how political positions throughout the territory of our State used their posts to skip vaccination protocols, also putting at risk the supply of the second dose and the overall strategy to combat COVID only for particular interests. Most of them and they are public offices that are legally shielded by this type of strangulation. This is unacceptable, and we hope that the spurious use of these privileges will be banished from the Spanish democratic system as soon as possible. We hope that this elimination of the hanging in Cantabria will help to improve the democratic quality and that justice will not be hindered again in judicial proceedings as has happened in our country during this time. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that we will inevitably vote in favour of this proposal, supporting the request agreed in the Cantabria Parliament. I believe that if the cantabrian parties have managed to agree to deal with this initiative, we must respect their institutional will, which is nothing other than to push for legitimate measures to eliminate privileges and to suppress outbursts. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the VOX Parliamentary Group is in favour of abolishing the outbursts for members of parliaments or legislative assemblies of the autonomous communities, as well as for the presidents and members of their governing councils. The general position we have on this subject is that only those provided for in the Constitution, as well as part of those provided for in the Organic Law of the Judiciary, which in its last reform added to the royal family, should be retained. As you will recall, following the theme of the Emeritus King, there was a reform of the Organic Law of Judicial Power and was included in the royal family within the throng. We are therefore going to vote in favour of the Commission's opinion, which simply takes up the report on the presentation, which in turn reflects the unanimous agreement in the Cantabria Parliament on this issue. We will vote for it as an organic law. Having said that, I wanted to comment on the amendment tabled by my group, which was rejected by the Commission, because we were very shocked by the positions we heard there. We agreed with the reform itself, which consisted in the deletion of article 20 of the statute of autonomy, which covers the topic of severance, and in the redrafting of article 11, paragraph 1, of the statute, which speaks of inviolability, precisely in order to adapt it to the subject of severance. We have tabled a technical amendment, in which we have two things. On the one hand, where Members were said to be Members, for two reasons only: firstly, because it is the generic and that is what the Royal Spanish Academy maintains, since it includes the male and the female; secondly, because paragraph 2 of this Article 11 says that Members will not be subject to a mandatory mandate and therefore - twice I insisted on this in the Commission - as a result of this, the Cantabria Members are subject to a mandatory mandate. [[Applauds]] If paragraph 1 says that Members will be inviolable by the demonstrations and paragraph 2 says that Members will not be subject to a mandatory mandate, it means that Members are subject to a mandatory mandate. The second part of the amendment concerned the collection of the same expression used in the Constitution with respect to deputies and senators. The Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, in this article 11.1, states that they shall enjoy inviolability for demonstrations held in the parliamentary seat. What we wanted was for it to be in Parliament's seat and outside the walls, always in accordance, of course, with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court sitting on it. We said: that they enjoy inviolability by the manifestations carried out in the exercise of their functions. And we said that because that is what the Constitution says for deputies and senators and because, as this exercise of death is already well defined by the Constitutional Court, there would be no problems. And why did we say this? Because by suppressing the suffocation, it is no longer a single organ that is going to judge, but it is going to be dozens of courts throughout the territory of the autonomous community, and a court can interpret one thing, another can interpret another and another can interpret another. If we put what the Constitutional Court has perfectly delineated and is generally admitted, there would be no problem. He only got the five votes in favour from my parliamentary group. And we hear, among other things, to say to the spokesman for the United Nations We can, in a rather angry way - and I read literally the Diario De Sesiones -: 'this amendment is presented by the extreme right, which goes to its own side also in this Commission and stops only to eliminate the gender perspective and reinforce the invisibility of women. ... It is regrettable - to say the least - that the extreme right takes advantage of this to stand in front of equality and feminism. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, language builds reality and what is not called disappears or goes into the background, and we cannot allow that.' That is to say, these people who assume that this is what they call a gender perspective, which defines women, agree that the Members of the Cantabria Parliament, as I said before, are subject to the mandatory mandate. [[Applauds]] What I don't know - and he concluded because I have only a short time left - is whether it is because they are exercising what Mr Zaragoza called the health cord to VOX the other day - therefore, to all that VOX presents we must vote that not even if it is common sense -, or whether they are really convinced that the use of this evil called non-sexist language - well, now they call it inclusive language - takes precedence over any right and therefore we must put the non-sexist even if the cantabre deputies are subject to imperative mandate, or if they have made it bet, convinced, because they are accustomed to the fact that the deputies are subject to the mandate of the alpha male, who is capable, as was said on one occasion, of whipping until a woman bleeds. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u60	Thank you, Mr. Del Valle. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some today is an important day, for others it is nevertheless a day of concern. It is important for all cantabria because the reform of the autonomous statute of Cantabria will be definitively approved and we will be able to focus on what is really important. And it is a day of concern - and we have seen it a few minutes ago in this rostrum - especially for the PRC and its deputy, Mr Mazón, because he is going to run out of alibi and he will have no choice but to put himself to work. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you may not know this, but in Cantabria the government of Mr Mazón's party is governed by a law superior to any other: the law of minimum effort; it is a law that is generating thousands of jobs, the establishment of new businesses, the creation of leading training centres, that is, in neighbouring territories, not in Cantabria. Two thousand new jobs at Amazon logistics center. Where? In Asturias. The first green hydrogen plant in our country. In Cantabria? No, in the Basque Country. A pioneering campus for training digital professionals, also in Vizcaya. These are for the cantabres some of the projects that the wind took to the next community while Mr. Mazón and Mr. Revilla threw that little game at the mus after eating. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had three legislatures debating two articles of the Statute of Autonomy of Cantabria to suppress the outbursts, a reform that will affect 40 cantabres of the more than 580,000 that we live in the community. A community that today has 41,377 unemployed, 5000 more than last year; in which 8,000 workers remain at ERTE and do not know whether or not they will be able to join their jobs. A Community that is the second most autonomous has destroyed in this year of pandemic, where we have traders and hoteliers, for the mismanagement of the autonomous government, on the verge of bankruptcy and where thousands of families are denied every day the minimum living income. We have listened to the regionalist deputy as a complainer, but we have to tell him that Cantabria can't lose a minute more. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not be surprised that the cantabres are in a hurry to see the end of the reform of the statute, because this procedure has become the excuse for the nap that is constantly being carried out by Congressman Mazón, who - as the media say a few days ago - has become the least working Member of this House. It's also true that sometimes you don't know if it causes more damage when you work or when you don't. Look, the other day the regionalist deputy did work, signed a blank cheque to Pedro Sánchez. With his vote he helped to give him the full management of the European funds without control, knowing, as we all know in Cantabria, that when socialists rule the cantabrians teach us the ham but then send us the bones. Because Mr Mazón and his president, Mr Revilla, understand democracy as our grandparents understood it, and I do not mean the parents of the Constitution; I mean those grandparents who gave us a slap and then told us that it was for our good, because that is exactly what the Regionalist Party has done: handing over the management of European funds to Pedro Sánchez and saying that it does so so that Europe's money does not stay in Europe. He was not going to stay, it is true, but neither with his signature nor without it, but now he remains in Moncloa, with the same control as the trips in Falcon or the invitations to colleagues to spend vacations in charge of the State, that is, without any control. There are a certain type of democrats who are not in control, and that is why many socialists and regionalists agree, and that is why I was repeating it again today, and that is why last week I announced that I would bring to this House an amendment to amend the reform of the statute that we are voting today to allow your government to sign decree-laws. Yesterday I withdrew that amendment. We wonder whether he has reflected on and rejected it or given it laziness, as laziness gave him and did not go to the Constitutional Commission to defend his own amendment. What a shame I had to give him! What we do know is that the Regionalist Party signs blank cheques and says it does so out of responsibility. I tell you that it is your responsibility to support and finalize a reform of the Autonomous Statute of Cantabria that comes to this House with the full consensus of Cantabria society and its political representatives. And that is what the People's Party is going to do today by voting in favour, as it did in the three previous reforms, because it must be said that all the great advances in investment, infrastructure, economic growth and self-government in Cantabria have always come from the hands of the People's Party. And, to your disgust, Mr. Mazón, sooner than later the People's Party will rule again in Cantabria, and it will do so unlike you, unlike your eternal leader; in thirty years Mr. Miguel Ángel Revilla has only been able to win the elections once and, as St. Thomas said, one and no more, because the cantabres are fed up with Revilla and his government. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the other day the President-in-Office of the Government of Cantabria said that her party, the Regionalist Party, guarantees stability in Cantabria. And I say yes, and I go further: you guarantee peace, the peace of the swamps, the peace of the cemeteries, the peace of those nostalgic who only know how to look back when everyone walks forward. And that, which is peace for today and hunger for tomorrow, is achieved by wasting time, by letting companies and jobs escape, by taking a nap behind the flags, but also by signing blank cheques to a government president and a Socialist Party that have already scammed Cantabria before and, in addition, by throwing their heads at that bucket of trash that welcomes an exeter that those populists who present a motion of censure today and the next day save and support the government. Much swelling of the chest, much and long reform of the status of autonomy and much Cantabria in the mouth, but this time, Mr. Mazón, thanks to you and Revilla, the cantabres will teach us again the ham but we will not even try the broth. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u62	Thank you, Mr. Movellán. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Casares Hontañón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u63	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mazón, we have not said no to further reforms of the Cantabria Statute as the possibility of contemplating decree-laws, to what we have said is not to reforms without consensus of the Cantabria Parliament, and we have said yes to work for the future of our land. Mr del Valle, Mr VOX spokesman, you no longer know what to do or what to say to attack women and women Members of Parliament in Cantabria. I tell you one thing, language silences and offends, but sexism kills, and we will not take a step back in the long struggle for equality in this country and in a community like Cantabria. [[Applauds]] And finally, Mr. Movellan, there is a missed opportunity to speak well of Cantabria, of your land. We knew they were willing to do anything to harm their country, and today we also know that they are willing to do anything to harm their land, Cantabria. Continue, continue, that they are on their way to political irrelevance also in Cantabria, Your Honor. What brings us here today is the reform of our statute. Believe me, it is always a pride to intervene in this forum of the Congress of Deputies. The feelings that occur when we defend here what we believe in, what we fight for and dream about are always different, although as important as the first time we go up to this rostrum, but the pride, the honor of putting a voice to what we represent and who we represent is even greater when we can talk about our land, where we were born and where we will be bound forever. For me Cantabria is not only a pride, it is the heart of what I believe in, with the conviction that when I speak of Cantabria I speak of a land born of the effort and work of its people; a region that fought with illusion to become today what it is, without needing to compare with others or demerge others; a land that is what it is thanks to the great courage and strength of those who preceded us to preserve what was and will always be: a people that defends autonomy, the Constitution and democracy alike. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about the autonomy of Cantabria in the same week that we celebrated the 39th anniversary of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria is also talking, from memory and demand, about a collective task that led thousands of people to go out to the streets to defend what they believed just when in this country we left behind the dark chapter of the dictatorship and began to speak, to dialogue and to respect ourselves as equals despite thinking differently. To speak of our status is to speak of the pride of what it represents to be cantabro and Spanish, because, ladies and gentlemen, there is no greater wealth for a people and for a country like Spain than the diversity with which we speak and feel what we are: citizens of a country with a long history of encounters and disagreements, of unity and division, of different origins that converge over time. That collective effort that we made forty-two years ago to put the consensus above any other issue is what gave us the greatest stage of progress, well-being and social peace in our country's history, and that same vocation to meet again, which is as urgent today as it was then, that call to the consensus with which we are talking today about the reform of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria was the one that put us in agreement with five different formations of the Cantabria Parliament to address the elimination of the hanging of the president, councillors, councillors, deputies and autonomous deputies. Certainly at the origin of that debate, which arose from different points of origin, we had different nuances, but we were able to agree on the important thing for a common and shared proposal to come out of Parliament, a common voice to defend the will of the cantabrians, that reform which shows that talking about the statute today and about Cantabria is also talking about democracy. This reform allows us to move forward in a model of society for Cantabria in which all citizens recognize each other the more equal. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude my speech by speaking about this long journey of achievements and achievements that make Cantabria today a space of coexistence in which to look at: the Marqués de Valdecilla Hospital as a bulwark of the best public health; the University of Cantabria as a social elevator that we always claim to achieve equality of opportunity; the public research centres such as Idival, Ibbtec, and IFCA, or the Institute of Environmental Hydraulics of Cantabria, as spaces of innovation and science that unite to make transformation a common goal; the value of our industries and companies, to which we dedicate our efforts to maintain them, but above all to reconvert and that we continue to generate development, productive activity, opportunities and employment in our land; the importance of our ancestral culture, which has in caves such as that of Altamira an intangible heritage that has remained unalable over time; or the strength of the peoples of the sea, which live in our coasts and in the workings of the seas, which are best preserved in the valleys and in the cities of the mountains, which are the cities of the cities. Cantabria are also the infrastructures and projects that we have committed to the advancement of our community and that are finally reflected in the General Budgets of the State. Sincerely, ladies and gentlemen, Cantabria is today what is thanks to the unity, cooperation, shared work and consensus that we have defended these years; a Cantabria that today sounds strongly in this Congress of Deputies and which shows with every firm step that gives that there is no greater guarantee for the democracy and well-being of the men and women of our land than dialogue; a dialogue that we call for to continue building the future of our land. That's the way to do more and better Cantabria. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u64	Thank you, Mr. Casares. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u65	We continue with the agenda on debates on all legislative initiatives. First, the debate on the proposal for an organic law to reform Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March 2015 on the protection of citizens' security. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Jiménez-Becerril Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u66	Thank you, President. This government and its partners have turned this Parliament into the festival of hypocrisy. A clear proof of this is that a political group like the PNV is the one that enforces the reform of the Law on the Protection of Citizen Security; a law that comes from the hand of a political party that, with the greatest imaginable cowardice, has always looked elsewhere while the terrorist organization ETA threatened the security not only of the Basques, but of all the Spaniards. Few lessons can be learned from these nationalists on how to protect citizens, because while the PNV collected the nuts, many innocent people were killed, wounded, kidnapped or forced into exile by ETA's hand shaking the tree. And I don't say it, said a historian of his party, Arzalluz, dry, because the gentleman doesn't deserve it someone who in 1994 said it wasn't good that THIS was defeated. If we had defeated her then my brother and his wife would still be alive and raising their children, and many innocent would have saved their lives. You gentlemen of Bildu and PNV should ask yourself why you could not or did not want to defeat ETA. Don't come and tell us about security, gentlemen of the PNV, while you, along with Bildu and Podemos, support the protera who brutally assaulted defenceless civilian guards and their partners in Alsasua. Is that the protection that Sanchez's partners want for our State Security Forces and Corpses, the one that abandons them in the face of barbarism? We already know that Pablo Iglesias - as he said in 2012 - is excited to see how protesters attack the police, but to us, women and men of the People's Party, what is exciting is to see how our police and civilian guards play their lives to protect us, and we will never tire of thanking him. What, today, Mr. Churches, does it thrill you to see your house well guarded by the police or the Civil Guard? Peace is priceless, Mr Vice-President, and neither is hypocrisy. To give legal cover to the tireless work of our security forces, we need this law, which must not be repealed or modified, neither in form nor in spirit, because it is supported by those who use it to guarantee our security and freedom from criminal terrorists and all those who threaten our freedom. And you, the people of Bildu, have no moral authority to talk about security and freedom, when for years you supported the socialization of terror and when today your spokesman in the Basque Parliament is able to say the following: The damage caused by ETA is recognized; whether it is just or unjust depends on each account. Tell you, lords of Bildu, to your companion, for my part, when you see her, to ask my nephews whether it was just or unfair to be without a father at four, seven and eight years of age. [[Prolonged applause]] Parliamentarians in Bildu are filled with talk about security, freedom, human rights. I have seen how some of you, last week, remembered the anniversary of the Holocaust - something very commendable - I too did; but, I would have liked you to have remembered with the same passion the anniversary of the murder of my brother and his wife, which was January 30. But, no, you, the people of Bildu, are more to pay tribute to ETA terrorists than to honor their victims. By the way, since we are talking about security, does it seem to you today to be a good opportunity to condemn here, once and for all and without blame-sharing traps, the crimes of the terrorist organization ETA against innocent Spaniards, yes or no? [[Applauds]] The silence, their silence, gives them away, because he who is silent grants. And, as we are still talking about security, let me tell Mr Marlaska - who is not here, but I say this to you as well - that when I see how you, stripping yourself of your armor of dignity with which you faced ETA in harsh times, have left yourself naked in front of millions of Spaniards, that we do not understand why, in the short time that this government has been in, have approached, imprisoned or progressed to a degree to more than 150 ETA terrorists, most of them with blood crimes. And Mr. Marlaska tells us that the killers have signed a paper where they recognize the pain caused. What a mockery for your victims! If these ages really repented, they would help to clarify the more than 370 ETA crimes that remain unsolved. But, no, these death fighters are proud of their crimes, don't regret it, Mr. Marlaska, and you know it as well as I do. And now also the National Court, which has rejected the validity of the letters of repentance of the prisoners of ETA, where the section in charge of resolving the matters of prison surveillance has issued a car, in which it maintains that these writings that sign the ages are not sincere and seek only to obtain prison benefits. What now, Mr. Marlaska? Now that we know of those type letters, in which terrorists claim to recognize the pain caused, as if these ETA killers were able to imagine for a second the pain my mother felt when they told her that they had killed her son, will you, Mr. Marlaska, back off with the rapprochement race or will you continue to comply with the pact that this government has made with Bildu to get closer to five ETA terrorists a week? The Spanish Society - all the Spaniards who were victims of ETA - has the right to know this unworthy pact that this government has signed with the heirs of ETA, but that we have not signed the Spaniards, when, where and under what conditions it has been carried out and whether it is a written agreement or only in word. Although few words have those who are able to sign such a backless pact not only to the victims of ETA, but to all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] One of them already said, the terrorist De Juana Chaos, when he saw my family cry after the double murder of Alberto and Ascen: His tears are our smiles, and we will end up in clean shelling. It is clear, Mr Sánchez, that it is the victims who are crying and the De Juana Chaos, Kantauri and Txapote who laugh at each other. As Pedro Sánchez once again says in this House that the Socialist Party has destroyed ETA, I will tell him again that it is a lie, even if I do not have the floor, as lies are the many that have been said about this law that we bring here today, and I do not say this, the Constitutional Court has shown that it has given the definitive approval to the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security of the People's Government, which is in force and works for the tranquility of all citizens. That is why many of your ladies and gentlemen should apologize for lying to the Spaniards by saying that this law did not allow demonstrations. What does not allow this rule is that a protestor throws an iron chair at a police officer, as I have seen at a demonstration on the Paseo de Recoletos, or that the riots in Barcelona end with hundreds of wounded police officers and one of them in a coma; that is what cannot be allowed. This law was and is necessary, and this is credited because the current PSOE and Podemos government maintain it, and they do so because it is an indispensable legal tool that responds to the needs of the state of alarm. It has become clear that this law was unfairly called the Law gag for the propaganda of the left and nationalism, and I hope you will admit once and for all that the text proposed by the People's Party Government complied with the constitutional principles, and this debate today would be a good place to stop calling the Law gag, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos and the PSOE, because you feel very comfortable applying it. The truth is that the only gag we see is that this government puts the Spaniards, who feel powerless before a president who threatens their freedom and fundamental rights with laws such as the Celaá Law, which prohibits parents from choosing the education they want for their children, or the Euthanasia Law, which is born without social consensus and with medical and bioethics associations garnished against such an important law. Mordaza is the one who wants to put Pablo Iglesias to the free press in Spain with the consent of Pedro Sánchez. Mordaza is the one who wanted to put Minister Marlaska to the brave colonel of the Perez de los Cobos Civil Guard for doing his job and by failing to do so, he dismissed him. And since this law is being indispensable to fight the pandemic by COVID, it is not advisable to open a reform process now, as proposed by the PNV, because it would create legal insecurity for the authorities, the State Security Forces and Bodies and all citizens. That is why the Group of the European People's Party calls for support for the amendment to the whole of which we have tabled in order to keep the text of the current law unchanged. It would be an unlimited hypocrisy for this Government, which is implementing the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, to vote against it today, although I would not be surprised if it did, because since the Sánchez-Iglesias Tandem governs us, in this our dear Spain, the Spanish feel more free and less secure. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Iñarritu García has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u68	Egun on. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. He read in the press today that the People's Party had financed a medium of communication using B funds to spread the idea that the terrible 11-M attack had been the responsibility of ETA. Today we have seen how a spokesman for the People's Party, who suffered a terrible drama in her family, has used her explanatory statement to talk about ETA - which is already dissolved - in relation to the Law gag. Well, I suppose it will be a smokescreen, because reading the explanatory statement appears to be done at least curious, as it states that the reform of this law was necessary and timely as it responded to a demand from broad sectors of society. Look, there is no law that has added more to the whole opposition against a rule, it precisely had the rejection of society and the vast majority of political parties. But it is that you approved it alone, only you defended its approval. Likewise, we are told that suggestions, recommendations of groups and associations, organizations and entities were incorporated, that is, we have forgotten to tell about who, which groups or which associations. We are also told that it was endorsed by the General Council of the Judiciary and the Council of State. Of course, and now they can also tell us that of the Constitutional Court and they could have also said that of the King and the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court. Obviously, all those bodies that are on their own or that control in some way are normal to support them, but what they forget is to say that the vast majority of political parties, of trade unions, of human rights organizations such as Human Rights Watch or Amnesty International - which are still calling for their reform or repeal today - but also agencies such as the United Nations or the Council of Europe are calling for the withdrawal or repeal of this law as a form of freedom, for going against rights. One thing that worries me, and in what you are right in your explanatory statement, is that the Socialist and United Party We can in the government are using this sanctioning rule more than what you used, with more than a million sanctions, which gives the impression that there has been a disproportionate and arbitrary in many cases because one of the main problems of this rule is that it leaves agents of authority as a party and judge, with total arbitrariness. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I do not know what you are waiting for to get to grips with this law as soon as possible; we are committed to repealing it and, even if it is the maximum reform, we will be tabling amendments. They say that there is no group that has put forward proposals, but we have already announced that we are going to table partial amendments to the whole text because we continue to advocate their repeal. Let us not forget that the intellectual authors of this rule were the same who are being investigated today for having made use of reserved funds, of police officers, the patriotic police, to fight outside the law against their internal enemies, those who could provide information about the chanchullos of the People's Party, as we can read today in the press, but also against their external enemies, whether in Catalonia with Operation Catalonia, or in Euskal Herria against left-wing parties that are now part of the Government, against all those who passed by. And if we go further, we have to bear in mind that it is not only a matter of this law, it is more general. Spain has one of the toughest, most repressive criminal systems in the European environment. Today you can go to jail for a song or a tweet. We see how emergency courts, such as the National Court, continue to apply emergency legislation. And let us not forget that just a week ago we knew that Spain was condemned again, eleven convictions for not investigating torture, six of them when it was Mr. Grande-Marlaska, the current Minister of the Interior, who I do not know if you believe he is the most suitable person to be in such a sensitive ministry after a sixth sentence of the European Court of Human Rights. But also a few months ago, in October, we saw a sentence condemning the Spanish State for police disproportionate use of force in a demonstration when it ruled the People's Party. One question to the Government was that they did not agree with that sentence, that there is proportionality in the use of force. If you respond just as the People's Party would respond, I think there is a problem. I hope, I say, that you will accept the matter as soon as possible. Moreover, mechanisms are in place to ensure and sanction the disproportionate use of force or police arbitrariness. We do not invent this for ourselves, there are already mechanisms in other States of the European Union to ensure, moreover, to ensure more for the freedoms and rights of citizens and to limit in those who have the so-called legitimate use of force so that it is always with guarantees and with respect for the law. I conclude, Madam President, by encouraging the government parties to surrender as soon as possible to overthrow this law that has been freed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u69	Thank you, Mr. Iñarritu. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u70	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the amendment of the whole of the alternative text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group to the reform of the Citizens' Security Act presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group of the PNV. Following the teaching contained in the maximal Roman script manent verba volant, which means that words fly and what remains is what is written, I will not dispute with the pain manifested here by the spokesman of the People's Party. That is why I will stick to the specific text of the alternative text proposal and what we are told by the explanatory statement on the root cause of its presentation, which is that it is neither urgent nor timely at the present time to fight the pandemic for the debate that would arise around it, generating legal uncertainty for the various legal operators. In short, the People's Parliamentary Group seems to say that this amendment in its entirety will have the virtuality, if it succeeds, of paralysing the presentation of the debates on the reform of the Law on Citizens' Security and, at talfin, presents as an alternative text to the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party a text that is identical to the current Law on Citizens' Security, so it seems that this will achieve, if it succeeds in its amendment, that there is no debate on the reform of the Law on Citizens' Security, which, in our view, is totally wrong in view of the House's Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the Citizens' Security Act will be discussed in a paper, the Commission and the plenary, either directly through the partial amendments that are made in front of it, if this amendment of all succeeds, or, if it does not succeed, through the partial amendments that are made to the proposal of the PNV, as happened in the XII Legislature. Either way, we will discuss the reforms that each parliamentary group considers appropriate against the Citizens' Security Act. The suspension of the debate is not regulated by the adoption of an amendment to the whole alternative text. If this happens, as I said to you, a time limit would be opened for amendments to the approved alternative text and the Basque Parliamentary Group would announce to you once again its proposal, but now in the form of partial amendments, which will be debated without delay. The only way to paralyze the debate on the reform of the Law on Citizens' Security, as it has been for a long time in the XII Legislature, would be through obstructive work, either by the Bureau of the House by prolonging with spurious intent the deadlines for amendments or by the Bureau of the Commission by not calling for the constitution of the corresponding paper, which we believe will not happen. Nor do we share the view that it is not appropriate to start discussions now because of the rift and insecurity that this would entail. The same catastrophic forecast was made in the XII Legislature. However, the papers developed with prudence, discretion and agreement, resulting in a high degree of consensus between political positions that a priori might seem irreconcilable. From another perspective, I would also like to come up with a certain argument that could be made that the Constitutional Court, in its recent decision 172/2020, has almost entirely validated the Citizens' Security Act. The Constitutional Court has a negative legislative nature, pointing out in a plea where this House cannot go constitutionally, but not determining the different public policies that at each time and in each matter the Legislative Power decides more appropriate to the public interests, that is, within the constitutional framework. In short, the adoption in its case of this alternative text, which is the same law on citizen security, would neither freeze the process of reforming the current law nor change the substantive debate, it would only change one thing, that the People's Party would not have to make partial amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this initiative will be rejected and that shortly, without any electoral process in sight, we will be able to start the paper work in the same spirit that encouraged the unfinished work in the XII Legislature and knowing that in an advanced democracy, in which pluralism must be the highest value, no one can claim that their positions are accepted in their entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u72	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Jiménez-Becerril, you represent the dignity of all the victims of terrorism. Our support always for your pain, the pain of your family and the memory of your family. [[Applauds]] By the way, today is the 40th anniversary of the Association of Victims of Terrorism. I wish this association had never been created, but I want to tell you that the history of this country will never be understood without the true account of all the victims of terrorism, because that is the account of the reality that happened in this country and not what some want to impose. My memory also goes to them and my congratulations to the Association of Victims of Terrorism on its 40th anniversary. The PP asks us to support a text that says it is alternative. Man, alternative, alternative, gentlemen of the People's Group, it's not. It is a literal copy in all its terms of the original law, of 2015. Moreover, they have not even bothered - they could have done it if it really were an alternative text - to change the name of some ministries that are included in the law, such as that of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism, to which you refer, which was the ministry that existed in 2015. Even if it were, they might have adapted it a little bit to our reality. What does that mean? It means that all you really want is a piece of legislation to try to put an end to the reform of the bill tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, which was taken into consideration by this House as a whole. Finally, it seems a bit presumptuous to try to modify with this text, which is the same as that of the year 2015 - I insist -, something that we have already approved in this House. We would have considered supporting an amendment, because we believe that the amendment proposed by the PNV - as we said in that debate - is short. And there are so many more things that we would have liked to change - in fact, that was the spirit of the XII Legislature - in the amendment of the law. If you had really presented some of the work that was done there, you would have been much more adapted to the real reform that this law needs. We might have supported that, since it was done there with a great deal of consensus, including yours, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, including yours. And the Socialist and United Group We cannot be rid of a similar criticism at this time. I remember that the Socialist Group presented an alternative that was to directly repeal the law and bring us back to the famous Kick Law at Mr. Corcuera's door. We had to discuss and even modify in the presentation of the law, taking into account that proposal of law, because the two were approved - Mr. Legarda perfectly recalls - and that caused us quite a lot of problems from a point of view of building the presentation of the law. If that law had been repealed, what would have happened at the moment with the state of alarm, gentlemen of the People's Group? What would have happened? If the current law on citizen security had been repealed, Lords of Podemos, what would have happened in the current pandemic, where there is nothing regulated in any other law so that the State Security Forces and Bodies can truly exercise the role that the Government conferred on them by the alarm decrees? Furthermore, you have not brought any parliamentary initiative to carry out this reform here. It is fair to acknowledge that without the current Citizens' Security Act, the Ministry of the Interior would have much more problems at the moment. In fact, this law has been more enforced by the current Government in six months than by the People's Party in the previous four years since its adoption. The ineffable Marlaska - we again have to talk about Mr Marlasca because he is the Minister of the Interior - expressly defended the application during the state of alarm of the article concerning disobedience to the authority contemplated in this law, but, to questions about whether the government continues with the idea of repealing, he said yes. He said yes, but that in the future. What do you mean, yes? Are we really going to repeal to go back to the previous one? The other day was Marmot Day and it is that in this it seems that we are on February 2nd: we return again to Marmot Day legislature after legislature and year after year. It seems to me that we are simply doing pure demagogy on this issue rather than really dealing with the problems and solving them. This is what we have to do, this is what society demands of us and this is what neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party are doing. Please, let us start again at once with the presentation on the amendment of this law, because it is true that it must be changed in many points. I say to you some of those that we tabled as amendments at the time in the XII Legislature and we are going to resubmit now, because they are aspects that the citizens want them to consider. We understand that it is a basic law for our coexistence and for the use of public spaces. We therefore believe that it is necessary that we review it at once, adapt it, defend freedom and understand that it is the judges and not the political power or the officials who must decide when it is lawful to restrict the public rights and freedoms of citizens. A clear law, a law that strengthens the guarantees offered by the current regulation for citizens and for all professionals who ensure compliance with the law. Because it is false, gentlemen of the PP, that the amendment of this law, as you say, will bring more complications to our State Security Forces and Bodies. We are not suspected of wanting to complicate the life of the State Security Forces and Bodies, but we do want to amend this law. Stop using that argument because it's a false argument. The State Security Forces and Bodies, with the amendments to the law, will be more protected than with the current law, which is its law. This you know and your spokespersons knew when they were negotiating in the XII Legislature in the paper. Let's talk about illegal octopus, which must also be included, as closed at that time. Let's talk about the due diligence obligation of large estate holders, which is not covered by any law and which is part of what we've been discussing before with all about okupation. Let's change the body records. Let us include animal abuse, which is also important to include it somewhere and is not collected in any order. Chemicals. Ladies and gentlemen, the DNI rate, that doesn't...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u73	Mr. Gutierrez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u74	It's over, President. ... apply, please, to persons in a situation of social exclusion. These are basic things, ladies and gentlemen. So let's get to work, please, ladies and gentlemen. Let's get this off. I ask the Socialist Party, the United We can or the groups to stop blocking this law, to bring it in as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u75	Mr. Gutierrez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u76	Yes, thank you, President. Don't block it and let's get to work. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. The PP has always been very just in terms of democracy since its own foundation by Francoist ministers and very, very, very, very, superimposed on corruption, except that its concept of democracy is, as Luis Bárcenas has just reminded us - that type with luck, at least for now - to use the institutions for its own benefit and support to expolate the public, to be financed illegally, to collect surplus envelopes, for information manipulation, to buy wills, to be financed illegally, to reform its headquarters also irregularly or to destroy evidence by hammering or shredding. But within its concept of democracy it is also cutting rights and the capacity for political action for others. You promoted in 2002, with the support of the Socialist Party, a party law to try to exclude the left abertzale. Clearly, they failed. Of course, if there was real democratic and independent justice in this state, with that law in hand and with everything we know - I'm sure there's a lot more we don't know about - the PP would be illegal because it's a criminal organization. The Citizens' Security Act is another example of this obsession of the People's Party to cut rights and freedoms. With this amendment, the PP strives to defend its creature, even if it is so aberrant from the democratic point of view that the people have baptized it, with justice, as the Law gags. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the background with which they intend to justify their amendment, they say only one truth, and it is a half truth, when they say - he said - that it responds to a demand from society and, in particular, from the Security Forces and Bodies. I make it clear that only the second part is true or could be. In any event, it responded to a political need on the part of the People's Party itself to curb by the repressive means the social discontent generated by the social and economic crisis, and to try to tackle the deep political and institutional crisis of the regime of 78, especially the growing demand for the collective rights of non-State nations. That's the truth. That is why you made a clearly repressive and anti-democratic law, which, instead of conceiving the norm and the police forces as an instrument to guarantee the exercise of democratic rights in freedom and without interference, is used, in many cases, to undermine them, even to prevent them. As we recalled in the debate on the taking into consideration of the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party, this rule enables the State Security Forces and Bodies to carry out actions that clash head-on with the right to privacy of persons without adequate judicial control; it hinders and limits the right to demonstration and assembly, with particular regard to the right to strike, and also to freedom of information and expression. That is why the BNG and broad democratic social and political sectors of all the peoples of the State opposed it and have since called for its repeal. I would like to recall that this derogation is one of the measures included in the investment agreement signed a year ago between the PSOE and the Galego Nationalist Block. Despite this, the current Government of PSOE and Podemos has not only not repealed it, but it has been the Government that has applied it most, especially Article 36.6, using it properly to enforce the measures of the state of alarm - inadequately, yes -. Already at the time, the BNG criticized this use as violating citizens' rights, and called for a correction. Today we know that we were right, because there are several judgments that establish with absolute roundness that this was an inadequate application of the rule. But we are clear that the problem is the norm itself, because to advance in democracy and rights it is necessary to eliminate anti-democratic and unjust rules like this. Therefore, without renouncing the repeal of the current law, the BNG at the time supported the consideration of this proposed law of the Basque Nationalist Party, because it goes in the right line. For the same reason, we will vote against the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the Republican Group we want the repeal of the Law gag. We must urgently end, above all, above all, above all, the legal procedure for returns at the border that successive successive governments-successive governments have come to do. The Ministry of the Interior and also the Directorate-General of the Police continue to deny in a parliamentary commission that there are returns at the border, although there is much evidence of this. We will, of course, vote no, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Many NGOs are demanding the repeal of the law known as the law gag, among other reasons, because they consider it completely impossible to comply with the three requirements in the hot returns they currently implement. The immediacy that characterizes a hot return, which basically consists of opening the gate and expelling the person, is incompatible with a procedure that guarantees rights such as legal aid, the care of an interpreter, the asylum situation or making an appeal; that is, compliance with the principle of non-refoulement included in the international obligations that the Spanish State has signed. Therefore, returns at the border of the first additional provision added to the tenth additional provision in the Aliens Act run counter to international law. This morning I heard on the radio when I was coming here - I see that Bildu's deputy also heard it - that one leader of the People's Party said: Our party is another, it's new, it has nothing to do with the previous one. Lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, Every day here, in the Legislature, in the consistories of the whole Spanish State, in the municipalities in their agreements with the extreme neo-ranquist right of Spain show that you are the same. And what you bring here today is nothing more or nothing less than the same as the People's Party. And what's more, they bring it with fear to show citizens - especially in election times - that they go beyond the extreme right-wing party of Spain. [[Rumors]] Every day, as I have said, here, in the Legislature, it is very clear - not only here, in the Chamber, but also in the committees - that you continue to be the same. You have joined, I would say - and I recommend a good article that you wrote today on VilaWeb that I liked very much - an international neofascist Christ from all over the world, where Bolsonaro enters, where Trump enters, where Viktor Orbán enters, where all the fascists of the world enter. You have entered this international neofascist Christ. [[Rumors]] I'll remember one thing. Do you remember that the PP came to agreements here, in this house, to amend articles of the law? I'm talking about M. Rajoy's time. You have reached an agreement with the majority of this House to change articles of the law because, in your view, it needed important changes. Do you remember that you wanted to change... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u82	This happened in the time of M. Rajoy and Mr. Zoido, I remind you. Another thing. You came to say, Obro comets - in Catalan -: we accept as a basis the text of the Basque Nationalist Party. But it is identical, I repeat, the text of the PNV is identical, and you now do not want to reform something that at the time of M. Rajoy said you wanted to reform. What are we left with? Stop playing with people's lives, with the victims of the articles of this law, which is nothing but an example of necropolitics. And I say another thing, the law would leave the Spanish State outside the European Union if it aspires to be a member of the European Union today. Yes, I would like to give an example: the legislative reforms that remove countries like Turkey from access to the European Union have elements that are keyed to the Spanish gag law - keyed - in contexts of human rights violations. With this, the Law gags have to be repealed. The PP wants to maintain a law of the time of Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz. Yes, the same minister who so far justifies shooting rubber bullets at fifteen people who drowned on El Tarajal beach in Ceuta. By the way, the entire Spanish state, Morocco and above all Ceuta, will be remembering the victims of the murder of El Tarajal. This law comes from the time of the same Minister of the Interior who until today defends the death, the murder of these fifteen people. I ended by saying a sentence from the judge of the Constitutional Court María Luisa Balaguer, who pointed out the following: The return at the border criminalizes the irregular migrant and the sentence prevents him, de facto, to defend any human rights of which he holds. Human rights. I don't know if that sounds like it. The corporal. The law violates the right to assembly, demonstration, freedom of expression and information. We must eliminate as a serious violation the unauthorized use of images or data of agents...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u83	Mrs. Carvalho, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u84	... and we must urgently put an end to the possibility of hiding, because this makes it possible for racist raids based on racial ethnic profiling, which are highly commented upon and denounced by state and international agencies. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u85	Mrs. Carvalho, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon asks for the floor]] Yes, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u86	Madam President, I am asking for the floor on Rule 72.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u87	Article 72 which...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u88	I'm sorry, article 71.3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u89	Allusions? Article 71, the one about allusions?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u90	Yes, Madam President. There have been so many that I find it difficult to show them a little bit, but there is one that I ask you to invite the Member to withdraw or delete from the Journal of Sessions, if you wish, what is the highly offensive expression for anyone, of the party that is, 'a neofascist Christian'. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u91	Mrs. Carvalho, do you want to withdraw the expression?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u92	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u93	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u94	I have asked you to withdraw it and I have not heard the answer. Didn't you order her to be removed from the Journal of Sessions?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u95	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you do not have the floor, Mr Santiago Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party is bringing us an amendment to the whole of the proposal for a law that we are currently debating on the reform of the Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, obliges us to hold a full debate. This debate can last about an hour and, according to the Congressional budget, that time will cost all Spaniards 33,000 euros, more or less. It is quite money for a working person, considering that the average annual wage in Spain last year has been 24,000 euros and the usual wage less than 19,000 euros. For the PP, however, it is little money. We have already seen that Mr Martínez Almeida believes that people who earn between EUR 32,000 and EUR 88 000 a year have socio-economic problems, and that is why he has agreed to give them aid with public money to pay rent, while keeping the supply of light in the Royal Cañada cut off, aid to the rich and forgetfulness and pain for the poor. But the case is that the People's Group is wasting an hour in this House today because its amendment to the whole is a legislative fraud, a fraudulent amendment that forces us to discuss, literally, word-for-word the same text of the current Citizens' Security Act, disregarding that this Congress has already agreed to its reform, not its maintenance. I imagine that the several hundred advisers and jurists that the People's Parliamentary Group has in this House will be ashamed of the ridiculousness that has been achieved, only comparable to the blush that the questions raise to the Government of Mr García Aegean. They have copied the law in force and miscopyed it, included articles that are not reformed in the proposal under discussion, referred to a future reform of the Criminal Code that was adopted in 2015, referred to registers of non-existent State forces and bodies, which had been digitized, and to a ministerial structure that did not exist. Nor have they bothered to consider the modifications and clarifications of last year's Constitutional Court ruling. I mean, they're acting shamefully. The culture of effort, which they falsely attribute themselves to, knows it only because they have seen it in the people who work for you; they behave like wasteful gentlemen of resources, unable to strive a minimum in their work. We are going to vote against its fraudulent amendment because we understand that in a democracy the protection of citizens' security is not allowed to introduce a regime of suspicion on citizens and on the exercise by them of fundamental rights, as the People's Party did with the 2015 reform, driven by the minister who used the Ministry of the Interior to prosecute those who harassed their party, to obstruct justice and to destroy the evidence of corruption in the People's Party. For our parliamentary group, citizen security is the necessary premise for the full enjoyment of all human rights by all people and it is the duty of the public authorities to guarantee. That is why we support the proposed law of the Basque Nationalist Party in the process and we will humbly work to improve it with two objectives. The first of these is to put an end to the cuts in public freedoms and fundamental rights that the People's Party implemented to hinder the right to protest - protest against its social cuts and the impoverishment of the Spanish population - to its Government. Do you remember when we reached 6270 000 unemployed, 27% of the working population and 55% of young people? Far from the unpleasant number of unemployed in Spain today at the worst time of a global pandemic. And the second objective is to expand fundamental rights to ensure social coexistence in peace for all. Our concept of citizen security is inseparable from the guarantee of the fundamental rights of the dignity of the person and the proposal of the People's Party, nobody is deceived, is to return to the dark night of the Rajoy government's freedom cuts. That is why we are going to collect proposals that make organizations like Amnesty International to guarantee the right to privacy and dignity in body searches, because sanctions cannot be allowed for the exercise of the right to freedom of information and freedom of the press or for the exercise of freedom of expression in concentrations or meetings. We will end in this process with the sanctions and impediments to the exercise of the right to seek international protection at the border, so that what happened in El Tarajal with those deaths does not happen. We will eliminate sanctions for the exercise of the right to peaceful demonstration anywhere, and we will eradicate any intermediate assumption between freedom and detention, the ill-called detention, the improper and unacceptable situation in a rule of law. The Left has been fighting for years during a dictatorship to conquer the right of assembly and demonstration, and we will never allow those who supported the dictatorship to re-limit or condition those rights. That is why we will protocolize police action in the exercise of the right of assembly and guarantee the proportionality of any sanction affecting the right of demonstration. A pensioner may never again be punished with more than 50 % of his monthly pension for stepping on the road during a demonstration. Lastly, administrative conduct under the Criminal Code could not be punished. The Spanish right has been freed throughout history. They only accept rights and freedoms for the powerful, while imposing obligations and cuts in freedoms on those who have little. Their hatred of the freedom of others has led them to impose authoritarian and dictatorial regimes for fifty years in the twentieth century. The right does not know how to respond to social demands and mobilizations, it only thinks of cutting freedoms, instead of meeting those social demands that motivate them. The repressive legislative package of the People's Party in the Rajoy era was impressive: the Citizens' Security Act, the reform of the Criminal Code and the reform of the Criminal Prosecution Act. Spain is the only country in the European Union where one enters prison for the lyrics of a song. We appeal to all the democratic forces that support this Government to work for the recovery of public freedoms that the People's Party has curtailed.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u97	Mr. Santiago, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u98	Lords of the Right, desist from limiting the public freedoms for which this people has fought so much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u99	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Alcaraz Martos has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u100	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before I begin my intervention, I want to make a point. Earlier the Member of the Left Group said that it was a murder of El Tarajal. Falsely, the judge filed the case against the Civil Guard. So please don't mention the Civil Guard anymore or charge him with any crime. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I was appointed from my group to defend this proposal for a law on citizen security and I saw that it was you, the PNV, the proponents, that I had to tell you that I was not surprised by the text you drew up. It is a mistake that in this Chamber there are so many enemies of the unity of Spain and that it is also those who want to legislate on the safety of Spanish citizens. Really, this is putting the fox in the henhouse. [[Applauds]] In fact, those of us who already know their history by governing the Basque Autonomous Community for decades really know what citizens and police forces care about: they don't care at all, and they have shown it. You have shown this with this proposal for a law that you bring here, in which in each of the points that you are dealing with you have not taken into account the safety of the citizens or the police forces. You have focused on minimizing or justifying the liability of offenders, so that it is much more beneficial to them and also so that the fines are much smaller at each and every point. If you want, I'll give you an example. Article 16(4) is amended as follows: 'Similarly, unless the transfer to police units is attributable to the displaced person, they shall be entitled to be returned to the same place where the identification could not be carried out by the agents.' Gentlemen of the PNV, do you know how many problems police forces have with the number of troops, especially the night services, and do you want our agents to act as a taxi driver for those who break the law not carrying their documentation through the public street? That's what you want. In the meantime, to a call from anyone who urgently needs the police services, we have to tell them they can't be picked up because you want them to be taxi drivers. [[Applauds]] At another point, they call for the deletion of article 37, paragraph 13, of the law, thereby eliminating the punishment of low-intensity vandalism. Do you know what you want to do with this? This is what you want to do with it. [[Show a picture]] This is my friend Salvador Ulayar's house, where his father was murdered at the door of his house. With this law they want to leave unpunished and leave without punishment those who perform the paintings in favor of ETA in the Basque Country and Navarre. Last year, 82 were painted in favour of ETA and against the victims of terrorism. With this amendment of the law, you approve the impunity of these criminals. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the truth is that I would have loved to support this amendment in its entirety. In fact, we agree with the law, we agree with the law in force, but it is regrettable that they have limited themselves to making a copy-paste of the previous law, without taking into account the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court of 19 November, which states that the unauthorized sub-paragraph, present in the original wording of article 36.23 of this law, is unconstitutional. That is why we cannot support it, but we do adapt the text to the requirement of the Constitutional Court, and we will work to carry it forward. I know that you, like us, have the will that this law should protect our State Security Corps and Forces and be in favour of the citizens, something that does not want much of the rest of the House because what you want is to change the law to continue to benefit the offender. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, we have seen your null and void will to implement the Citizens' Security Act. We have seen it in the past elections of the Basque Autonomous Community, as we are seeing right now in Catalonia. Neither his Government in the Vasco Country nor in Catalonia has protected our leaders of VOX and the sympathizers who went to each of the rallies and acts that have taken place. You let the horde of the left, the protera and the separatist independenceists attack all our comrades. Therefore, you have no will to enforce the law. [[Applauds]] In fact, that is why you refused to sign this manifesto by democratic, free and peaceful elections, and we are not having it in VOX because you are propitiating it. [[shows a document]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, do you remember? [[Shows a small net bag with nuts]] These are the nuts a president was talking about - as Teresa has rightly said - whose name I don't even want to remember. Your president said that the proetarras and the etarras would move the tree and you would pick up the nuts and distribute them among your own. But, of course, they have now come up with competition, now you neither collect nor distribute nuts. Now they're picking up the ones in there, these from Bildu. Bildutarras are the ones who now distribute the nuts, you now have competence. [[Applauds]] Allow me, President, to say that apart from bildutatras - also given the level of tolerance in this Congress - they are fascists and responsible for supporting an organization that has killed almost a thousand Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Therefore, do not bring us this proposal of law, you have remained unable to collect nuts of ETA, and now you want to collect those of the criminals. You, gentlemen of the PNV, who have allowed for years, for decades, the victims of terrorism to have to bury our relatives almost underground; you, who have caused the exile of thousands of devascos; you, who allow tributes, 193 last year; you, who sympathize with the murderers of almost a thousand Spaniards, have no moral legitimacy to speak neither of security nor of freedom. [[shows a photograph]] Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u101	Thank you, Mr. Alcaraz. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u102	Thank you very much, President. I should like to inform you that today I do not bring anything atrezzo, nor photography, nor even food, nor any other issue that could hinder the debate, because I think it is a rather interesting debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is a shame that there is no one in the leadership of your parliamentary group, even if it is just to point out to you... [[Mr. Echaniz Salgado makes gestures to the speaker]] Yes, Mr. Echaniz, I see you now; yes, you are. For they seek to bring legislative initiatives that are up to parliamentary debate and not a thread of Twitter, Mr Echaniz, which is what they are dedicated to doing here, to making threads of Twitter. [[Applauds]] This parliamentary initiative has nowhere to take it, neither from above, nor from below, nor from law, nor from the contrary. Five times we have already talked here about the Citizens' Security Act - five. There is no bad fifth, they say, but this is very bad, Mr. Echaniz, very bad. The truth is that you might think that you weren't going to have arguments today to discuss, but there are, because you have turned the universe of justice into a real black hole that absorbs everything. Yesterday it was Mr Bárcenes and next week it will be Mr Bárcenes, but trying to find some new argument to introduce today into the debate I find that last week Mrs Cifuentes started in that little mess that she has of a fine master's job, or something like that, and we discovered a new element, and that is that the fine master's job of Mrs Cifuentes was on the general lines of Law 4/2015 on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Wow, Mrs. Cifuentes turned into a real citizen security expert. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is not that Mrs Cifuentes was given the title, it is not that she would not have written it as everyone accused her, it is not even that she would have done it quickly and running to try to justify being given a master's degree, etc. - that mess you have - the point in common that you have the end of master's work and the initiative that you bring today, ladies and gentlemen, is the lie. The lie and shame in which you have turned not only your intervention, loaded with bubbles and fakes, but also the very legislative text that you bring here today. The University of Salamanca possibly teaches the best Spanish in the world, also probably one of the best law faculties in the world. Let me now use a word: plagiarism. You have done nothing but plagiarize yourselves with this initiative today. They have been plagiarized so badly - I will not go into other considerations that have made other speakers - that they have even copied the structure of the Ministry of the Interior of 2015. Remember what happened at the Ministry of the Interior in 2015? That there were very busy people there to cover up cases of corruption and to draw up political reports against the opponents of the People's Party. Between hollow and hollow of agenda I imagine that the secretary of state and minister JorgeFernández Díaz also spoke of this law of citizen security, a law that you used to gag public opinion and the media of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, with this structure of the Ministry of the Interior of 2015 you have made the ministry itself the best stage of a Berlanga film: false priests, chauffeurs, entrances in apartments and flats... It was only necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to see the Marquis de Leguineche coming in and out of the minister's office to get some questions. That's what you turned the Ministry of the Interior into, a Berlanga movie, the fourth delivery of The National Shooter. [[Applauds]] Today, you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, intend to adopt here without effort, such as Mrs Cifuentes. They want this House to award them a master's degree in citizen management, a title they don't deserve, but it's not a title we're going to give them with a bill of such deplorable quality as this. He's told it to his right-wing partner, VOX. Be honest, with this law you have tried to disguise your arguments in many ways, but I will quote Mrs Cifuentes as an expert, who I imagine will have advised you on these issues. Do you remember what Mrs Cifuentes said that the demonstrations in central Madrid had to be carried out because they were a nuisance to the citizens who could travel there? Well, look, at that time Mrs Cifuentes said that it was necessary to modulate the exercise of fundamental rights and our public freedoms, no more or less than the substance of her proposal for today's law and of the proposed law on citizen security. It's over, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. You are very used during your legislative periods to developing laws that you do is to put clubs on the wheels of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of this country. But you have met with your nemesis, ladies and gentlemen, you have met with the Socialist Party, a party that will always ensure that the rights and freedoms of citizens are respected, but also that the rights and freedoms of all citizens are extended. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - PROPOSAL FOR A COORDINATION LAW FOR PREVENTION SERVICES, EXTINCTION OF INCENDIONS AND SAFETY IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE NATIONAL CIVIL PROTECTION SYSTEM. [[File number 122/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u104	We turn to the next item: Proposal for a law on the coordination of prevention, fire-fighting and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. An amendment to the entire alternative text has been submitted to this bill. In defence of the amendment tabled, Mrs Nogueras i Camero has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u105	Thank you, President. Mr Mayor, I had prepared an introduction, but it seems that you have already decided what you are going to vote on, and you are going to vote no. So, if you think so, I'm going straight to the point. In October we told them - and today we will repeat it again from Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra and the CUP - that Catalonia does not need a false coordination law. If you want us to coordinate, let's do it, let's talk about it, just like we talk about it and do it with other bodies in other countries. The law you are processing is loading the Catalan model, loading Catalonia's skills and loading Catalonia's volunteer bombers. They carry a model, in fact, which in the rest of Europe is not only being imposed, but is being consolidated and also growing. [[The Lord]] You, the PSC and Els Comuns, have been unable to give me a single argument that justifies you voting today against shielding the Catalan system. Look, in October, you approve the processing of this bill that, in my opinion, does not even stand with clamps. In fact, many of you have recognized after this law is a huddle, Mr. Mayoral. After the adoption of this law, on 5 November, a motion of commitment of the political parties to the Emergence System of Catalonia was voted in the Parliament of Catalonia. The motion consists of five points, two of which are in fact unanimously adopted, i.e. by all parties, including the People's and Citizens' Party. In the speeches, regarding this motion in the Parliament of Catalonia, the representative of Els Comuns says - I will quote textually -: Let us give our hand to all the forces of the Parliament to modify the bill in the parliamentary procedure in Congress - here I open a parenthesis: we are in the parliamentary procedure in Congress. I close my parentheses - to ensure that the model we have in Catalonia is preserved and protected. And precisely this, which the Commons promised in the Parliament of Catalonia, is what we vote here today: to protect and preserve the Catalan model. The Socialists also spoke, and the Socialist representative said, among many other things - I quote textually too -: Even a very clear amendment can be made to exempt Catalonia. That is to say, the PSC proposed in the Parliament of Catalonia to introduce a far-reaching amendment to which we are voting here today in the Congress of Deputies. I will read you the amendment we are voting for today so that there is no doubt, because some of you who have spoken to the firefighters in Catalonia, I believe you have done so by being undocumented. And that which you have not told you, we have told you. You have told them that today we are voting on an amendment to the whole of Junts per Catalunya, the demons of Junts Per Catalunya. I will tell you but not so that you know, because I know you know it is an amendment to the whole alternative text, but so that the people who are listening to us know it. Today we present an amendment to the whole alternative context; a text that maintains each and every comma of your law, of the Spanish law, of the law that you have voted on, but includes an additional provision that says: 'The autonomous communities that have their own legislation will be exempt from the application of this law'. Exactly what the PSC and Els Comuns said in the Catalonian Parliament that had to be done. Look at how two or three lines change the meaning of this law, two lines that capture everything that the PSC and Els Comuns have promised Catalans and especially Catalan firefighters. So today we will see, Mr Mayoral, whether the PSC and Els Comuns are useful Catalan parties in Madrid or, on the contrary, are useless parties for the interests of Catalonia, parties that tell us what we want to hear but do the opposite, that is, that they are only the speaker of the PSOE and Podemos in Catalonia. I don't know if any of you are ever going to tell what the reality is, I guess being in the campaign will be the ones with the noses to do it. Today we're going to try to do a little bit, we have little time. The reality is that Spain is a country that sinks and breaks and that none of the parties in this House has a project to get this country out of the bottom of the well. [[The lady]] Neither will they count, nor the candidate of the Moncloa, Ya, nor the candidate Albiach that the companies in Catalonia are closing to thousands, also the companies of Spain; that the SMEs, the autonomous and the Catalan families are drowning, while you here raise the quotas to the autonomous, while they do not condone ICOs and taxes and force many citizens of Catalonia to be indebted for life, when those who should be indebted are you, the State, because you are ruling. They are not going to count that after a year they are unable to pay ERTE on time. Nor will you count that, while the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia gives up to the last euro it has in aid, you have not given a euro from here. And I say up to the last euro, despite the fact that we do not have EUR 16 billion that are the citizens of Catalonia and that you kidnap every year. Nor do they count that the European Central Bank has issued a report this week in which it emerges that Spain is the country of the European Union that has given the least aid in this crisis. Nor do they count that Spain has renounced 70 billion euros of European funds, because these are loans that must be justified, so, for the moment and to date, 70 billion euros go to waste and not to companies. They are not going to tell the citizens of Catalonia that they have to live below their possibilities because the Spanish State has decided that they prefer to spend the money on other things and elsewhere: in companies on the Bernabéu stage, in kings, in AVE and in deficit airports, instead of spending them in the accompaniment of the talent of companies, entrepreneurs, SMEs and the autonomous of Catalonia. PSC and Els Comuns, when you tell the reality - and this I have just explained now is just 0.0001 % of the raw reality - for which you and your party have a lot of responsibility, people can perfectly understand that the change that you so much are talking about in campaign does not believe it neither you, nor you, Illa, i no t'ho creus nor you, Jessica Albiach. As we continue in Spain, we are doomed to empty promises, empty dialogue tables and also empty current accounts. Today, Mr Mayor, they could do nothing but vote yes to this amendment we are presenting, but they have decided to vote no. So the message is very clear: you do not do politics, you do propaganda; you sell smoke; you are not useful to Catalonia and, obviously, you are not useful to Catalonia's firefighters. There is not a single reason to justify a vote against or perhaps there can be one, and it is that they do not care anything and less about the well-being of the citizens of Catalonia. I'm finishing up, President. I can't get out of here without saying what I repeat to you every time I'm here, and we demand the freedom of political prisoners and exiles. We demand that the most progressive government in history, which maintains political and exiled prices, which is already drifting Turkish in which it has been immersed for so long, respond to the requests of the UN Arbitrary Detention Group, respond to the requests of Amnesty International, respond to the requests of hundreds of international institutions and collectives, and above all ask them to respect the Charter of Fundamental Rights at once. All the parties that are here explain to the Spanish citizens that this thing that happens in Spain is not normal, that this thing that happens in Spain does not happen in any democracy of the 21st century. And please break that Francoist bond that has you bound, complexed, ridiculed and also ruined. I was thinking today about the work that remains to be done after the adoption of this amendment that we are presenting, but we have already been told that they are going to vote no. We are tired of coming here to beg, tired of coming here to detail every euro that is of the citizens of Catalonia and that you decide that you stay in Madrid and not in Catalonia, we are tired of fighting each of the competences that you crush every day. So I want to win independence again on 14 February, and I would very much like to have the first president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, because, today, independence is the only hope that we have for the citizens of Catalonia, the independenceists and those who are not independenceists, to a much better life. Visca Catalunya free! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanatory statement of the proposed law itself, there is no regulatory framework at state level governing these fire services, and the disparity of models and quality in the provision of the service is the norm. We appreciate the amendment to the whole of Together, although we are not going to support it as it does not, in our view, bring substantially better things for the whole of the citizenry. The Fire Prevention, Extinguishing and Rescue Service is a service recognized by the Constitutional Court as essential and must therefore be provided with the same conditions of effectiveness and security throughout the State territory, both in cities and in the rural world. The law only requires the provision of fire services to municipalities with more than 20 000 thousand inhabitants; moreover, thousands of municipalities that extend across our country usually deal with provincial deputies. And, as you know, there are real difficulties in covering the entire territory of many provinces of the interior and in the regions most affected by depopulation this is much more evident. There are occasions when a small supply of two firefighters per watch shift must cater for a large extent of the territory, with isocrones that far exceed the thirty-five maximum desirable minutes. For example, the municipality to which I belong, Calamocha, with one of the secondary parks of the province, has only three firefighters to attend an extension that is one quarter of it, that is, one quarter of the 14,000 square kilometers. And in many other areas, such as the Maestrazgo Turolense, parks are needed, which are not built, in order to reach the most remote or less accessible areas. For this reason, it is important for the development of this law that provincial parliaments and municipalities receive advice from the State and the autonomous community, but also their economic support is important. In the same way, effective coordination is essential to overcome situations such as those in Aragon, where there is an own fire coordination law, adopted eight years ago but still lacking an autonomous service, which was contained in that same law and which would ostensibly improve coordination. In short, we will support the processing of this proposal for a law that guarantees a quality service for all citizens, regardless of where they live, and, for their professionals, uniform working and safety conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Law on the National Civil Protection System and the Autonomous Laws - in our specific case, the Law on the Civil Protection and Emergency Management System of Cantabria - establishes the principle of coordination as one of the most important guiding principles of the public service in the field of civil protection and emergency and, taking into account the coexistence of fire prevention and fire-extinguishing services in both local entities and provincial autonomous communities, it is considered appropriate to establish criteria that unify certain aspects, providing a common regulatory framework and the establishment of a technical coordination and advisory department for matters related to the so-called SPEI. However, it is imperative that this system accommodates the workforce, limiting the functions required by public authority status for officials. This is essential for Cantabria, where we have a very important workforce. Issues such as the regulation of the second activity in category C1 for firefighters are a well-deserved recognition for the role they perform, and we welcome this, but the text they propose suffers from the lack of a catalogue of common rights and duties for SPEI personnel, official access and promotion training itineraries, and procedures for staff mobility throughout the State territory. On the other hand, the text should respect the power of self-organization in terms of personal and material means according to the population affected and the territorial distribution, principles violated by the regulation that arises with regard to constructive characteristics, type of minimum dependencies, minimum equipment of parks, number of intervention teams and sites. All of this has been contemplated in a Cantabria bill that will be passed shortly. Finally, there is a lack of analysis of the priority of sources with regard to the civil service following Law 27/2013, since the autonomous communities lack competence to regulate the legal status of local fire brigades. If they really want to ensure this homogeneity throughout the State, it should be state legislation that regulates it in a more or less comprehensive manner without referring to autonomous legislation, since this could not affect staff in matters such as selection, administrative situations, timetables, hours and disciplinary regime. This regulatory framework needs to be more mature in its approaches and it would be desirable to set up a working group with the public administrations involved to ensure a competitive distribution that ensures sufficient legal certainty for the provision of this fundamental service in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJPNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u111	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the amendment of the entire alternative text of Junts per Catalunya to the proposal for a law coordinating the services of firefighters, of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, to which we have already opposed in its consideration because it considers that it is a centralist and Jacobinian text, a violation of the distribution of competences in the field of civil protection and self-organization, which correspond to the autonomous communities and, in the case of the Basque Country and Navarre, of its updating of the Foral Regime in the field of public security, and also, as we said, far from reality, as part of the falsification of the provision of the service of firefighters by the different public administrations little less than living in chaos, insecurity and compromising human lives, given the diversity - it is said - derived from the different regulatory frameworks laid down by autonomous communities and local authorities. However, this accusation of poor performance of the service in operation and quality, neither proven nor argued, contrasts with public opinion, since throughout the State fire services and their officials are the best rated of all public services of any public administration. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen of Podemos, who should we consider? The majority public opinion, the citizenry, or you and your fakes? Because I really believe that you in the presentation of this proposition used many fakes. We would understand your position - although we will not share it - if it is based on a purely ideological approach, but not, as they say, on the reality of how public services are being provided. Perhaps this is why his statement in the debate of taking into account that this law is a law of class, of the class of firefighters, which in its ideology demands full uniformity and for which it is necessary to dispense with autonomous communities and local authorities and, therefore, articulates much of it around the Ministry of the Interior. It is an approach, Mr Mayoral, which, with another motivation, coincides with that of VOX: no autonomous communities; return of competences to the State; grouping firefighters, in fact, into a national body with a single and homogeneous regulatory framework with regard to services, their provision, their operation and their nature, as well as a complete statute of the single firefighter for the whole State. It is that the autonomous communities and local authorities are so excluded that it is even proposed to create a fire department in the Ministry of the Interior that will not only issue instructions for all fire services, but will also inspect and supervise these services. And not only does it remain there, but it is added that this leadership will represent and ensure the interests of the fire services no less than before the public administrations on which they depend. Do you think this fits within the constitutional framework? Do you believe that in the area of civil protection, of autonomous competence, the State can thus, under its jurisdiction, influence public security policy when we know that it can do so only when it is affected by a national or supra-autonomic interest by the disaster or emergency situation of that magnitude? In such clear assumptions it may affect, but not others, as is intended in the proposed law. In the cases covered by Act No. 17/2015 of the National Civil Protection System, a model is already in place that allows the central Government to effectively manage emergencies of national interest, integrating the capacities and efforts of all the public services mobilized, including those of firefighters, and of all the public administrations concerned, while designing a general coordination system through the National Civil Protection Alert Network, the National Civil Protection Information Network and an evaluation network of the National Civil Protection System itself. Not only is the National Civil Protection System Act available, but also the various emergency plans and the basic guidelines issued by the State on specific risk planning. All this results, in terms of the legislator and not far from 2015, in a positive assessment of the autonomous communities and local authorities for having set up their own effective civil protection services, also developing coordination bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, from a competitive point of view, from the point of view of existing legislation and from a reality point of view, we do not think it justified for the State to regulate the services of firefighters from autonomous communities and local authorities as if it were a State service and its officials, its public employees, the firefighters, a national body, taking over the entire statutory and organizational aspect of these public servants, as well as the fire service itself, proposing - I am finalizing, President - a remedy to a problem which does not exist and which is ill enough to speak of the services of firefighters providing autonomous communities and local authorities. That is why we will support the amendment as a whole, even though we are aware of the necessary technical and political cleansing that it needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Cambronero Piqueras has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are discussing a full amendment to the proposal for a law on the regulation of the coordination of fire prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. National - Spanish - Civil Protection System, Mrs. Nogueras. This law is an old demand of the collective, a collective that lacks a statutory framework of its own rights and obligations. It is therefore necessary to regulate this public service in order to guarantee both the rights and obligations of workers in this field and the rights of citizens when receiving this essential public service. The position of my group and my own was the affirmative vote to take into account this Podemos initiative, as we considered it of paramount importance and covering legal gaps of decades. Today we are going to vote against the text proposed by Mrs Nogueras, because the independence arguments are as predictable as they are repetitive, especially in the election campaign. They want to be arrogated - always with an exacerbated victimism, that is to say - exclusive competences that do not give them the Constitution. And no, Mr de Junts, in the area of civil protection, the State has an obligation to regulate the coordination and provision of an integral service to citizens, to all citizens, throughout the national territory. Isn't that what we're here for, for citizens? Not you, you have come to sell the independence delirium and take advantage to live from this tale as many years as possible. I still remember Mr Rufián's words a few years ago saying that he would leave the seat eighteen months later. Mr. Rufián - I'm going to ask you even if you're not - you're stuck in your seat, aren't you? We're gonna have to call José Mota to separate the person from the seat. Ladies and gentlemen, last July we registered an initiative in this direction for the adoption of a basic state regulation that regulates and harmonizes the characteristics of the various services as well as for the recognition and regulation of the profession of firefighter. That is why we are voting in its day on this consideration. Beyond the election rally of Mrs. Nogueras and company there is one thing clear, it is necessary to professionalize and regulate the services of firefighters at state level. There is a disparity in the regulations of their functions, their basic equipment, internal organization and all aspects of their very important work. Remember, we're talking about people who dedicate all their work to saving lives. Today, this service is primarily provided by municipalities and parliaments, but can also be provided by provinces, autonomous communities and even some consortia, giving an idea of the heterogeneity and regulatory chaos, which generates inequality between firefighters and legal insecurity for users. A minimum framework law is essential. Examples of the inequalities caused by this regulatory disparity for these professionals are many. For example, it depends on where the service is provided right now a firefighter can be considered an agent of the authority or not; it can be a worker with a contract of employment or an official, and there are even municipalities that have outsourced this service through volunteers or contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to this chaos. It is not only a just demand of the collective - as I have said - but also this absence of a common basic regulation has terrible consequences for the citizens. The citizen who suffers a disaster does not understand legal conflicts or competitive conflicts. This law will treat firefighters as agents of authority in the exercise of their functions, something with which we are radically in agreement and for which we too have been fighting for other collectives, such as prison officials, for whom there is not yet a rule in this regard. Socialists and Podemos, prison officials exist, make agents of authority already. We agree on most of the issues raised in this initiative and believe that particular importance must be attached to these issues, among other things: first, to achieve the full integration and implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Occupational Risks and also a catalogue of own diseases; second, to establish a staff regime, i.e. minimum conditions for the provision of service; third, to regulate access, career and the incorporation of women through a general management of firefighters under the Undersecretary of the Interior. I make a letter asking - because I can't help it - the Lords of Podemos. Gentlemen of Podemos, have you already created the public body of babysitters and babysitters? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] I ask you basically because if you are going to create it - I have two little girls -, to ask. Or is it just for your leaders? It's just like it's for your leaders. If they're capable of inventing themselves... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u114	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u115	...a new story, they're capable of everything. I'm on it. In short, and returning to the subject, what this proposal seeks to do is to establish a regulatory framework that is common to the Spanish State as a whole, in the form of a basic law, which ensures that the basic criteria for the safety, effectiveness and efficiency of this service are met, as the firefighters themselves say. To this day, fire brigades continue to depend on the individual decisions - very uneven and sometimes arbitrary - of the different administrations, and they themselves say that the lack of a framework law significantly harms them, also to the service that citizens receive, despite them, who are magnificent workers. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in your day we support the consideration of this bill and today we will vote against the alternative text proposed by Junts per Cat because, although you are using this House to do your electoral rallies, we are much more interested in doing positive things to strengthen public services and public attention. That is why we believe that the creation of a state law regulating the Fire Prevention and Extinguishing Service is necessary and also useful, also and especially for Catalans, Mrs Noguera. Even so, we think the text is clearly better and we bring these improvements to the presentation phase of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Cambronero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u117	Thank you, President. Members, Members, for the second time I greet you today, not in much better circumstances than the first. I will try to save you the election rally - I am in the campaign but we are talking about something else and therefore I am saving it - but I do want to point out that, even in such complicated circumstances as an election campaign, I fully support the words of my colleague Miriam Nogueras, and we are from different parties, we are from parties that are going to face up to these elections. But do you know what's going on? That, apart from party politics, there is one thing that is for me to dedicate myself to the policy - at least personally - that has to do with ideology, with the implementation of public policies, with realities and with how we want to transform reality for our citizens and for ourselves. Therefore, first consideration: I am not going to enter into the text or into what is intended by the proposed law that presented to us United We can at the time because we already discussed it on the 13th and it is exactly the same, exactly the same - I say in one way and the other - as the one that is presented today. There is only one - one - provision that is modified, ergo, if only one provision is modified and has to do with the competitive distribution, it is obvious that what the law pursues is not what is written in the articles from the 1st to the last, but re-centralize and statize again, as they have done with other bodies, and we will not allow it. Because, if they really cared so much about the text of the law and had no decentralizing desire at least, they would not have made their comrades in En Comú Pomero and the PSC look like they did, and they would have accepted this amendment, this amendment to the whole, which is not so, and we would have discussed all the articles later. Because now you tell me how we're going to go to that great negotiation that you're asking us. But he's got so much to do with it! He's got so much to do with it! If you are not able to vote on your own text only with that amendment that Assumpta Escarp is proposing, advise her at Barcelona City Council with me, and not suspect of being an independentist. If you want, I read it to you because I have done the same as my partner, I bring here the Diary of Sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia. But what about Els Comuns? What do they look like? Do you realize what you're doing to your people in Catalonia, other than leaving them as liars? Do you realize that? We all in Parliament agree that our model of firefighters, our model of volunteers, must be preserved, but you claim the ability to impose yourself again against the agreement of your own party in Catalonia and your own party, Socialists, in Catalonia. Therefore, they have already highlighted it, but it is not that they are not useful, it is that they have made them make ridicule, and in politics there are two things that must be tried not to do: ridicule and pain. Probably for many of you I do both, I have no doubt, but at least it's not my party mates who lie to me. We're on. This text is not basic, at all. Are we gonna fix it by negotiating? Well, that's what they say. We're starting to feel terrible. This text demonstrates a regrettable inability to go to what is really supposed to be the fundamental thing, the chaos that you have organized in different parts of the state because you in the different governments have not done the work and, therefore, are not coordinated, they do not arrive, they are not well equipped, they have no decent wages, they do not respect their labour rights. As this happens to you, you are going to centralize us, that we have a body of firefighters, both firefighters and volunteers, internationally recognized and that comes to many different crises called by other States because they have experience, because they know and because they have history. And all that doesn't count for anything; for nothing. But I tell you one thing, Mr. Mayor, I told you on October 13th, and I repeat it to you. Dear colleagues who are supposed to be federalists, you go hand in hand in this with federalist insignia such as those of VOX, you go hand in hand with insignia defenders of plurinationality such as the PP, you go hand in hand, and you have made it your own every right hand in this Chamber. I am going to do something that is not usually done in this House, but it is my way of understanding politics, I am going to ask the Socialist Party and the United Nations to think about it, to stop for a moment and to realize what they are doing, because you have brought here a proposal that is not just from the government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, we can stop the machines, stop the machines and vote in favour of an amendment that I do not even present, that is, we are helping a partner. They are voting in favour because then, given that the text has not undergone any other modification, we will be able to enter into that negotiation to which they invited us, but that it is absolutely incredible if they do not take this step. I'm on my way. I ask you, please, not to throw Marx, the working classes, the oppressed people and the common places that I know you are going to say, because I am so in favour of you not privatizing the services of fire prevention and extinguishing and the dignification of the workplace.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u118	Mrs. Vallugera, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u119	I'll be done immediately. Therefore, you do not have patent course to tell me that you are left-wing and I with this not, because it is not true and it is unfair. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Mayoral Perales.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u121	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to send a greeting to the working people of the various fire brigades of the whole state, who are the participants, who are pushing this rule and have managed to get us here. It really seemed as if the last twenty, fifteen or ten years had not passed and we would not have experienced the neoliberal fever of privatizations and the processes of precarious public services. From what I was listening to the spokesman for Esquerra, it seemed that these processes of precariousness did not happen in Catalonia. It seems that public services have not been cut in Catalonia, the working conditions of public workers have not been precarious and the health system has not been cleaned up all this time. Looks like those things haven't happened there. What does happen is that the public workers of the whole state, of all the administrations, have been fighting against those who pose the neo-liberal privatizing and precarious model of working conditions in all sectors. And this is a manifestation of that fight that is taking place throughout the territory. Today's debate is an exercise in parliamentary filibusterism. That is to say, today we are supposedly discussing an amendment as a whole, but it is not an amendment as a whole, it is a partial amendment - technically it hangs because it includes the full text and then an additional provision where it is said: to me this does not apply it, which is basically the only thing that comes in the text - and they present it in order to be able to develop this debate in the face of the elections, which, at last, is what it was all about. In the meantime, what we are doing is opening up the possibility of incorporating inputs to improve the text because we believe, of course, that it is better and, moreover, that contributions must be obtained from all the political groups as well as from the professional groups that are carrying out this service. That is why we have opened a dialogue with different trade union organizations. The trade union organizations of Catalonia do not agree with the amendment to the whole; in particular, the Workers' Committees, the General Workers' Union and Catac - which is also a trade union organization of the fire department - which do see a positive development of a coordination law. When you say that we do not want to recognize competitive levels, you do not tell the truth. We just want to do the opposite: put into value the work that all the public administrations are doing because there are many things that are positive. That is why we are defending a coordination committee in which not only the autonomous communities - which, of course - are represented, but also the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the large cities that have their own extinction services. Why? That is precisely why, because coordination is not because you order administrations to do what they have to do or because administrations operate without the rest, but because you share the good practices and the work of all administrations. That is why these coordination mechanisms are proposed, which are obviously useful for all administrations because they allow for the exchange of good practices and the possibility of improving coordination between public administrations. Frankly, when I hear these debates I think we can discuss, if you want, the national question, but, of course, you do not want to talk about the class question. We are told not to talk about the working conditions of all workers. But, of course, we come from a culture that we remember and make our own the great contribution that La Canadien's strike made to all the working people of the whole territory. It was a fundamental contribution. We believe it is important for working people to be clear that they have common interests and should have the possibility that those interests will be embodied in laws that guarantee their rights. Besides, I'll tell them we're doing it both ways. We are sometimes told that why we have promoted state legislation; and, sometimes, why we do it from an autonomous point of view. When we have tried from the autonomous point of view, by promoting laws to expand their housing rights, we are told that what we do is to disperse; and when we do so from the state, the opposite; but the important thing is that the social rights of the majority are not recognized. We are quite clear that we are going to defend public services here, in Catalonia and in all the territories of the State. We believe that public services are a democratic guarantee for the whole population, and that this responds to a demand from public workers, precisely to guarantee their working conditions and the public service to all citizens, and we will continue to defend ourselves. Some political forces accused us of unionizing politics. Well, look at you, if giving voice to the working people and taking into account what you are saying to defend public services is to unionize politics, because unionisms the politics and let's listen to the working people once and for all; and let's stop listening so much to the lobbies who are away from the interests of the social majority. [[Applauds]] We and we will continue to defend public services. And we tell you one thing, this is an shield against the privatization of this public service, but I will also tell you that, if we had the strength to prevent the privatization and outsourcing of health services, we would certainly do so without shaking our pulse, because it shows us the reality that defending public services is defending democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u122	Thank you, Mr. Mayoral. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gestoso de Miguel has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u123	Good morning. I want to begin my intervention by claiming from this rostrum my Catholic faith, which is that of the vast majority of Spaniards, praising God and condemning Mrs Carvalho's disrespectful, blasphemy and offensive deposition. And since it will not be removed from the Journal of Sessions, that remains my testimony and condemnation in the name of millions of Catholics. [[Applauds]] I must remind you that the model of public security that governs Spain is established through delegation of certain subjects and bodies to the autonomous communities, and you are no exception. The Generality itself has no jurisdiction over anything that does not come from a previous delegation of the State and the Constitution, with which they want to end. Moreover, even the mossos are not entirely your competition. As soon as VOX rules, citizen security will be one of the first things we will recover for the state. [[Applauds]] Firefighters, as you know, are in origin a local competence of the municipalities, lobbyists, island councils and deputies, regulated in the Law of Bases of the Local Regime, in which they can participate the autonomy, to relieve the burden of the municipalities, through various formulas such as the consortia of fire extinguishing or similar figures, and that the service reaches all the Spaniards. In fact, these instruments, which allow the collaboration and participation of the Autonomous Communities, help them to implement and exercise their statutory powers, if they have them. Therefore, we understand that perhaps this law should have been articulated through the mandate of the Local Regulating Law on Local Regime Bases when it comes to developing the status of the firefighter, but it is clear that this legislative path is more difficult because of the need for dialogue and the large number of people who have to be heard and taken into account. We all know of this government's repulsion to engage in dialogue with people who are not of their own accord. One point must therefore be stressed: public security is the exclusive competence of the State, as stated by the Constitutional Court in repeated judgements. You separatists have invented a French-inspired word, that of civil security, which is nothing other than creating by the way of the facts a model based on state structures that ends up stealing from Spain one of the axes that gives it its raison d'être as a nation. That's why they talk about Catalan civil security, where they integrate mossos and firefighters for their nightfall, coup and illegal project of banana republic, creating a sail of state appearance. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this law of firefighters or any other that smells of Spain, which claims and reaffirms Spain as a common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, including all of you, gives them allergy, gives them rejection. If you fall for the firefighters of the invention, you fall for them and, therefore, you are opposed to any vertebrate law of the Spanish nation. Well, you know what awaits you with your citizen's security, that which you exercise against those who are not on your rope and which allows aggression, threats and harassment against VOX candidates and supporters in Catalonia, in an electoral campaign, and which stifles the freedom of Catalans with separatist nazification. [[Applauds]] We will recover for the State the next minute those powers as soon as we enter to be part of any government and illegalize we have those parties that attack the Constitution or the unity of Spain, or those satellites of the ETA kills so many millions of Spaniards, which we will not consent to continue to whiten another second to make its pact with Sánchez less repugnant. That is why we are voting against this initiative. [[Applauds]] But I do not want to fail to mention that this law is a patch within the chaos and the quake in which this Government has plunged emergency management and civil protection, as we have seen in the recent snows. They lack, as in everything, model and legality, and that they have a minister who is a judge. They're only interested in the photo, even if the photo is from a legislative cobbler like the one I'm going to explain. A Civil Protection Act was adopted in 1985 requiring regulatory development through a basic civil protection standard, which was adopted seven years later in 1992. This basic rule is the one that sets out how emergency plans should be and is the legal basis of the national system, and distinguishes between state, autonomous and local territorial plans and special emergency plans. These development guidelines, such as most state plans, are usually adopted by royal decree-law, such as the seismic plan, the forest plan, etc. The 1985 Act is repealed by the National Civil Protection System Act 2015. The summary of the current situation of the Marlaska misadjustment is as follows: we have the National Civil Protection System Act adopted in 2015, we have a basic civil protection rule in force that develops a repealed 1985 law, and no one has thought of updating the basic civil protection rule, which is essential for the legal and operational development of any state emergency plan. That is why today VOX demands a new basic civil protection standard under the 2015 Act, because they cannot continue to legislate anything if they are not. The State therefore lacks a territorial civil protection plan in the terms required by the 2015 Act, and that is nonsense that is creating chaos, uncoordination and destruction, as we have seen in the disastrous management of past snowfalls, in which no one knew where it should be. What does a social communist government do with all this? To approve, without bringing together any consultative body or talking to the professionals, the autonomous communities or the local entities - with no one - the General Plan of Emergencies of the State lacking that basic norm of civil protection that empowers it for this, and to approve all this in the Council of Ministers without character of royal decree, a dip that leaves us to all Spanish helpless, without general planning of emergencies and at the mercy of events and chaotic management, as we are seeing in the crisis of the Chinese virus and all its strains. Ladies and gentlemen, a plegem in the image of the minister and Sánchez, pure smoke, without anyone - I am finishing - but, yes, not in the image of the Spaniards. Then you will accuse us that VOX wants to end autonomy, and you do not count on it even when the law obliges you, but there is a difference; if VOX would ever want to end autonomy, it would do so through legality, and not like you, that every time you don't care about it, you abolish it through the facts. To finish, I'll say this more than just a law on firefighters is another patch. In any case, here are things that are a real nonsense, that are just going to generate uncoordination, and that VOX is going to amend in the near future. I don't want to be a pain in the ass, but I think this law is meant for operational failure if profound amendments are not made...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u124	Mr. Gesto, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u125	Thank you very much and live Spain! [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u126	Thank you, Mr. Gesto. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Tirado Ochoa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a full amendment to the proposal for a law on the coordination of prevention, fire-fighting and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. It is an amendment which does nothing but amend a first final provision, which completely empties the proposal and leaves this law ineffective so that any autonomous community, if it does not want to comply with it, does not comply with it. With this amendment the proposal for a law loses all meaning and, therefore, I would like to tell you that we will vote no for this amendment as a whole. Our aim is to turn the legislative text into a real law of coordination, without interference - I also say - into autonomous and local competences, of which we are extremely respectful. I would like to convey to the more than 21,000 professionals from 500 fire parks that the People's Group is ready to discuss and legislate for greater professionalization, greater recognition, better regulation of the fire profession and its modernization. Let's talk about modernization. We defend firefighters as a quality basic public service. And in the People's Group we want to work to ensure the cohesion, coordination and effectiveness of public civil protection policies. It is possible - and we will - to improve the status of firefighters, their operationality and the quality of service. The authors of the amendment, there is no doubt, want to empty Catalonia of everything Spanish, but today I also want to recall, as I did in the previous speech, the contradictions of Podemos in the field of state competences, which clash with his actions, alliances and independenceist sympathies in this double game. I remind you again of Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, which is contained in the preamble to this proposal: The Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. Yes, gentlemen of Podemos, common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] I also remind the Socialist Party, the other part of this social communist government, and I tell you that in Spain, although the new minister you have, Mr.Iceta, there are not eight or nine nations, there is only one, which is Spain, the common and indivisible homeland, and which has parts as dear as Catalonia, Basque Country, Extremadura or my land, Castilla-La Mancha. [[Applauds]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that both the independentists and the tripartite governments, the two, are two sides of the same coin, and their governments have pushed Catalonia back and poorer and will do so again because today, now, within a few moments, the Socialists will vote with the Republican Left of Catalonia for a parliamentary initiative that speaks of amnesty and self-determination. Take off your face, because you will again rule with the independenceists in Catalonia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of contradiction has disappeared with the Social-Communist Government. With total normality one says one thing and its opposite, without immuting one thing is said and the opposite is done. Do you remember that Pedro Sánchez thing about not making a deal with Podemos because he couldn't sleep? And now those who cannot sleep are the Catalans who are in the queues of hunger; those who cannot sleep are the Spaniards who suffer from unemployment due to the disastrous management of the government, which has caused the GDP to fall by 11%. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also the firefighters who cannot sleep with Minister Escriva's announcement to cut pension spending by EUR 30 billion. In the People's Group we believe that it is fair to take good care of those who take care of us. That is why we want to legislate for firefighters to be agents of the authority in the exercise of their functions, to improve their professional career, that their job classification must start from the C1 functional group, on their second activity and many other things. In short, to dignify the profession of firefighter even more. It is possible without having to duplicate or create other new general addresses. I say this because we are before the most expensive and inefficient government of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court has established that the competence of the State in the field of civil protection falls within the competence of public security, which is constitutionally enshrined in Article 149.29a of the Constitution. In our amendments we will, yes, put into value the autonomous communities and local entities, those in which other parties do not believe, but we believe in municipalism and we will demand in the amendments greater funding for better provision of fire service. We understand that there is too much disparity and heterogeneity in many fire services in Spain. That is why we believe that this law is necessary, not of centralization but of coordination and effectiveness, yes, I repeat, of coordination and effectiveness. We will be a useful group to improve this law, we will go to the criteria of operationality and effectiveness. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell the authors of this amendment that in order to defend the firefighters, the firefighters of Catalonia and Catalonia, no one is going to win the People's Group; we are going to work for a better Catalonia, of agreement, leader, innovator, avant-garde, entrepreneurial, employment and opportunities for all. Ladies and gentlemen, let us reject this amendment as a whole and let us all work together because a better system of firefighters is possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tirado. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Aceves Galindo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u129	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. I wanted to start by thanking the spokesman of my parliamentary group for his presence, because he is the only speaker present in a debate that for some is important, but for others he seems to have no interest at all. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Adriana, for being here. I had prepared another kind of speech, but after listening to what I have heard, I sincerely say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when the firefighters of this country, the 20,000 professionals, see what has happened here, some of them will never vote for you, because I have heard so many barbarities that, when you read them yourself, you will realize the error you have made. I would like to continue my speech by thanking - nobody has said - the work of twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year, of the firefighters of our country and also of the 168 women, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Because this law that we have to elaborate must take account of equality and serve to eliminate that gap that means that there are not enough women in this body. That must also be done with an inclusive language law, ladies and gentlemen. We must all be prepared and, of course, the Socialist Group is. Many thanks therefore to the professionals, who have also demonstrated what they are during the pandemic; a public service essential for what in our country means attention to goods and people and their protection on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country there are three legal links for this type of legislation. First, the Spanish Constitution itself; articles 2, 15 and 103 clearly state that the public authorities have to put in place a system that serves to help people. Also the Law Regulating the Basis of Local Regime, in its additional third provision, speaks of the need - as was done with the local police at the time - for these professionals to be public officials, ladies and gentlemen, which is what they have to be with this text. Because we are going to understand each other, ladies and gentlemen, here we are not talking about forest firemen or volunteer firemen, we are talking exclusively about professionals. Therefore, do not mix because that concept leads out of here to mistakes and, of course, my group has it very clearly. The second is the Local Regulator's Law on the Basis of Local Regime, which clearly states that our country must have a statute. For what? To regulate a profession that is more than a hundred years old, that exists since the sixteenth century and that has demonstrated throughout its life the need to count on these professionals throughout the territory of our country. The third is Law 17/2015 of the National Civil Protection System. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is part of a consensus and of the necessary - logically, in a State like ours - respect for the division of competences between the State and the autonomous communities. It is in this respect that the future law must be based. The firefighters in this country know that the Socialist Party has always defended their work and will continue to do so; they know that we are going to work hand in hand with all groups to get a proper text that will help them in their future; so that they are group C1 level, so that they are public officials. And now I will answer the spokesman of the People's Group because he has made a harmful intervention, but I will finish first what is listening to the citizens of our country and the professionals. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u131	Why? Because what we really need is to make tools available to autonomous communities and professionals to make the best possible public service. The truth is that I didn't want to get into this, but you have done an electoral rally here, and I, who am a member of the National Civil Protection System, tell you that we professionals don't like to be used politically, we don't like anything. And you are coming to tell me that a motion has been adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia? I have read it, and the Socialist Party of Catalonia did not vote in favour of what you have said. Look at him. I like parliamentary rigour, and here it is, in front of all of you. And to end with Catalonia, do you know what Article 132 of the Emergency and Civil Protection System of the Statute of Catalonia says? That the Generalitat, in cases concerning emergencies and civil protection of higher scope in Catalonia, should promote mechanisms of collaboration with other autonomous communities and with the State. I don't think we need any more answers. In other words, respect for competences and assistance and collaboration between territories that form part of the same territory and even of the same orography. Mutual support and collaboration. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, that is the pattern that the European Union itself is setting in Europe: collaboration. It is the only way to attend to what we have on the table, which is the climate emergency and are the problems that our country has. I want to tell Mr. de VOX one thing. With the speech you've made, be cool that with the votes of the firemen you'll never rule VOX. [[Applauds]] It's absolutely quiet. He doesn't need any more answers. Relax. And to Mr. Tirado I would say that today he betrayed the subconscious. You've come here to talk about firefighters, but from good to good you've changed your speech, as always, to try to generate chrispation. He's wrong about a subject. The B of firefighters what has assumed you is that you have done an intervention in A or B, because the B of firefighters is the B of Barcenas and is the B also of the B box. [[Applauds]] That's what happened to you today, who betrayed the subconscious. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll finish the way I started. It is the mandate of this legislative branch. The Socialist Group is going to vote that no to this amendment as a whole for a single reason, because we understand that after this procedure the opportunity is opened to make a law to help professionals. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, today all the parks in this country - also in Catalonia - at 12 they have voted for Parliament to follow the procedure of the law they are asking for. For you to know, also in Catalonia. That's the job we're working on. We are committed to making a law to help professionals, to respond to that demand that has been made for many years and to help citizens. If we are able to do that, ladies and gentlemen, you have no problem, which we will all be grateful for, but making speeches about the use of such an important emergency system is clearly doing the professionals a weak favor. I am in favour of that, and the Socialist Group is prepared to cooperate in that regard. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u132	Thank you, Mr. Aceves. We'll vote in three minutes. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will only be able to vote from the seat that corresponds to you, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure will not be able to do so from their seats. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, before voting, the third secretary will read out an institutional statement on the occasion of the celebration of World Cancer Day.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u134	Institutional declaration on the observance of the World Day against Cancer. Cancer is the world's leading socio-health problem. It is the second leading cause of death worldwide and is projected to grow by more than 30% of new cases by 2030. Currently, in our country, one in two men and one in three women will be diagnosed with cancer throughout their lives. It is estimated that this disease affects 1.5 million people in Spain and nearly 280,000 new cases are diagnosed in Spain each year. The crisis caused by the COVID19 pandemic has only aggravated the social and health fragility of people with cancer and their families as a doubly vulnerable group, by cancer and by COVID19. People with cancer and their families are living various and severe impacts of this crisis. On the one hand, health impact: diagnostic tests and delayed treatments, uncertainty and the need for information to help reduce the fear of contagion. And, on the other hand, emotional and social impact, both personal and family: unintended loneliness, anxiety about delays in treatments and/or diagnostic tests, fear of contagion and returning to hospitals, suffering from the difficulties to accompany and be accompanied in the end of life process and the worsening of economic and labor difficulties. The Congress of Deputies, on the occasion of the World Day against Cancer, expresses its solidarity with all people affected by this disease and declares the House's commitment to help meet their needs and alleviate the impact of the pandemic on their lives. In this regard, the Congress advocates that the relevant actions be taken to alleviate their situation of special vulnerability, as well as to guarantee in an equitable manner the rights of people with cancer and their families. The Congress of Deputies also expresses its support for cancer research as an essential instrument in the fight against this disease and transfers its recognition to all associations and entities that are accompanying people affected by cancer for their commitment and continued work. Congress of Deputies, February 4, 2021. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u136	We started with the votes. No-law propositions. No legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the creation of a road map for knowledge transfer. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 104 plus 187 telematics votes, 291; abstentions, 59 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u137	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on global and urgent support for the Spanish hospitality sector. [[File number 162/000461]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u138	No bill proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on global and urgent support for the Spanish hospitality sector. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the VOX Parliamentary Group and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 115 telematics votes, 156; against, 63 plus 117 telematics votes, 180; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u139	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u140	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion following urgent questioning by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's intention to resolve the political conflict with Catalonia. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 63 plus 124 telematics votes, 187; against, 41 plus 114 telematics votes, 155; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u141	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the management of the minimum income. [[File number 173/000046]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u142	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the management of minimum living income. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 41 plus 66 telematics votes, 107; against, 63 plus 176 telematics votes, 239; abstentions, 4 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u143	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to curb the invasion of Spain. [[File number 173/000047]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u144	Motion following urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Government to curb the immigration invasion in Spain. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 52 telematics votes; 64 plus 144 telematics votes, 208; abstentions, 40 plus 50 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u145	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u146	Validation or repeal of royal decree-laws. Royal Decree-Law 1/2021 of 19 January on the protection of consumers and users from situations of social and economic vulnerability. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 63 plus 125 telematics votes, 188; against, 41 plus 113 telematics votes, 154; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u147	Therefore, the Royal Decree-Law is validated. The processing of this royal decree-law has been requested as a bill by the urgency procedure, so we proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 246 telematics votes, 350; in favour, 104 plus 237 telematics votes, 341; against, 4 telematics votes; abstentions, 5 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u148	It is therefore dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u149	Opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. Joint vote on the opinions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on international conventions. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 104 plus 230 telematics votes, 334; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u150	The opinions were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u151	Opinions of committees on legislative initiatives. Proposal for the reform of the Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria, for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and of the President and Councillors of the Government. We are voting on the opinion first. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 233 votes in favour, 337 votes in favour, 104 votes in favour, 216 votes in favour, 320 votes in favour, with 17 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u152	The opinion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u153	Finally, the overall vote is taken on the organic initiative. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 votes in favour, 232 votes in favour, 336 votes in favour, 104 votes in favour, 215 votes in favour, 319 abstentions, 17 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u154	Accordingly, the proposal for the reform of the Organic Law 8/1981 of 30 December of the Statute of Autonomy for Cantabria for the elimination of the suffocation of Members of Parliament and the President and Councillors of the Government is approved.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u155	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Proposal for an organic law amending the Organic Law 4/2015 of 30 March on the Protection of Citizens' Security. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposed organic law reform of the Organic Law 4/2015, of 30 March, on the Protection of Citizens' Security, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 244 telematics votes, 348; in favour, 41 plus 50 telematics votes, 91; against, 63 plus 192 telematics votes, 255; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u156	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. - No, no, no, PROPOSAL FOR A LAW ON COORDINATION OF PREVENTION SERVICES, EXTINCTION OF FIGURES AND SAFETY IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE NATIONAL CIVIL PROTECTION SYSTEM. [[File number 122/000082]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u157	Proposal for a law on the coordination of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System. Amendment to the entire alternative text to the proposal for a law on the coordination of prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services within the framework of the National Civil Protection System, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Ms. Nogueras i Camero. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 104 plus 245 telematics votes, 349; in favour, 35 telematics votes, 104 plus 209 telematics votes, 313; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-04-CD210204.u158	The amendment to the entire alternative text is therefore rejected. Good afternoon to all of you. The meeting rose. It was two and twenty minutes in the afternoon.
