ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u1	The meeting was resumed. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government, in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u2	Mr Sánchez, you have achieved the worst result in the history of the Socialist Party in Madrid, its constituency and mine. And that's cheating with the CIS, with the BOE, with threats and hiding the tax saber. To sum up, the president of the Government of Spain has been 'overtaken' by Errejón in the capital, and there are no Andalusian primaries that cover it. The Spaniards are sick of their lies, their incompetence and their arrogance. How can you say that we are on the path to recovery with six million unemployed and two million families in the queues of hunger? How can you say that you want to use European funds to distribute 70 billion euros to your finger in exchange for raising 80 billion euros in taxes to the middle and working classes and leaving a debt until 2058? That's like the tumult of the tocomocho. And how can you boast of vaccination when you've done nothing but stifle and we already have 125 000 people killed by COVID in Spain? Now he says that the pandemic is a thing of the past because there are ninety-nine days left for herd immunity. But for you it's ninety-nine more days with 200 dead as yesterday? Aren't you going to do anything to prevent another 20,000 victims of COVID in Spain? So in the face of this desolating panorama and the rattlesnake that you have suffered in the polls, I ask you three very specific questions. The first, why not convene the debate on the state of the nation after three years? The second, why does it not bring the clandestine reform plan, as all European countries have done, for their vote? And, the third, why does the legal plan B block the fight against the pandemic, as the People's Party has been offering for the past year, to prevent further infection and death by COVID? If you have decorum, answer it now. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Married. I look at him, he listened to him carefully and I think the story is repeating itself, Mr. Married. You're looking at Albert Rivera. [[Laughter and applause]] Your Honor, your emergencies are not the Spanish emergencies, I'm sorry. In 2019 there were five electoral processes; in 2020, two electoral processes; in what we lead from 2021, we go through two electoral processes, and we will see if there are any more, I say in some autonomy. So, Your Honor, what does Spain need? Political stability. It is thirty-two months of legislature to do two things: one, economic recovery, that is fair and that reaches all homes and all corners of the country, and two, to vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate to reach group immunity. And yes, Your Honor, yes, the state of alarm is the past, one must look to the future and the future is called group immunity. There are ninety-eight days left to achieve it and an economic recovery that we are beginning to see already in the economic data. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u5	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u6	Mr. Sanchez, you're looking at Zapatero. [[Laughter and applause]] He talks about political stability who has tabled three motions of censure. But, above all, it's outrageous. We see what the sick and the unemployed care about. Nothing. He only cares to remain in power at any price. I'll tell you one more time. In Spain, an organic law is needed to limit fundamental rights such as the limitation of freedom of movement. Autonomy can no longer do anything, you are solely responsible, so all the countries in our environment have legislated against the pandemic. And that's why you're proving that if you don't give your arm to twist, you can bring the opposite to ministers, barons, also to your government partners, the Council of State, and even judges and health care providers. In the year and a half of the legislature you are already a lame duck. But stop putting your head on the floor like an ostrich, Mr. Sanchez. Be brave, defend the Spaniards with all the means, because their encroachment costs lives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u7	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Married, what are the citizens' concerns? I think the first of them is to overcome this pandemic. Yesterday, thanks to the vaccination process, we managed to exceed the 20 million doses administered. I said that the first week of May we were going to have 5 million Spanish people with a full schedule; today I can assure you that the first week of June will be 10 million Spanish people with a full schedule. [[Applauds]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the strategy and agenda of the Government of Spain: to reach 70% of the Spanish population immunized, and therefore vaccinated, before the end of the summer. Secondly, what we are seeing not only in private consumption and in electricity consumption, but also in social security membership and in the reactivation of workers who are in ERTE, what is it? That the Spanish economy, Your Honor, is about to launch. That is what the Spanish Government is doing; it is doing so with social dialogue and it is also doing so with the approval of recovery, transformation and resilience plans. Furthermore, we want that economic recovery to be as fair as possible. That is to say, thanks to the minimum living income, thanks to the strengthening of the welfare state, thanks also to the social protection that we are doing with all those workers in sectors with restricted activity, we are making this recovery as fair as possible. And, Your Honor, there are thirty-two months left to achieve that goal... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT ARE THE EXACTLY THE RED LINES THAT HAVE CROSSED VOX? [[File number 180/00523]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u10	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u11	Mr. Sánchez, you pompously said that VOX has crossed a line and that it will be the last one to cross. What are you threatening us with? Is he going to gag us? Is he gonna lock us up? Is he going to illegalize us? Because here the only one who has crossed all the lines of political decency is you, and he will also continue to cross until he has the decency to return to the Spaniards the vote he has stolen from them with lies. Because you crossed a line by lying to all the Spaniards, promising them you won't deal with these, those and those. [[Pointing to the seats of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican and Euskal Herria Bildu]] You crossed a line, therefore, coming to power illegitimately with lies. You cross a line every day without asking for forgiveness for it, Mr. Sanchez. You've crossed a line closing and ruining the Spaniards with an illegal state of alarm. You have crossed a line trying to turn democratic institutions - the CIS, the Civil Guard, the Prosecutor's Office, the judges - into institutions at the service of the Socialist Party and Podemos. VOX has only crossed the anti-democratic wires imposed by the progressive dictatorship that you represent, and we have done so without asking for forgiveness or permission. That we already exist is crossing a red line for you. To discuss gender, autonomy, immigration, is to cross a red line for you, Mr Sánchez. Going to Vallecas, where we have 15,000 votes, is crossing a red line for you. Require them to condemn the violence they incite, defend and justify from the government, is to cross a red line for you. To distrust your assemblies, because we have an obligation to believe you, is to cross a red line for you. Denouncing the contractor of thugs, which you became vice president, is crossing a red line for you. Well, Mr Sánchez, we are going to continue to cross all the lines and all the anti-democratic wires that you put before us. And we're going to do it without asking for forgiveness or permission. And also know that you will not be able to do anything to prevent it, nothing lawful, Mr Sánchez. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, some of them on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Abascal. I see it's not a line, it's quite the lines we've crossed. Anyway, I'm very surprised this conversation we have, where you come here and release - I imagine - your video to then hang it on social media. But this is a control session, Your Honor, it's not a monologue summary. I hope that you can also enter into that fight, into that political dialectic which corresponds to a place like this. This is not for you to come here, record your friends and then hang the videos on the Internet. You talk about which lines you've crossed VOX. I believe that if we look at Article 1 of the Spanish Constitution - you who supposedly stand as defenders of the Spanish Constitution - we see that the values that are defended in this Article 1 are, for example, political pluralism, for example, equality or, for example, freedom, Your Honor. The freedom, for example, that you question when you announce that you are going to close or that you want to close those media that are critical with you. When you say that you defend the Constitution you forget that Article 1 establishes equality as one of the main values of our Magna Charter, which you attack when, indeed, you question gender-based violence, when you attack, for example, minor migrants or when, for example, you call the LGBT collective sick. [[applause]] And what about political pluralism, Your Honor? Of course, if here, except you and probably the People's Party and what's left of Citizens, the rest of the political parties should be illegalized, because you here in this rostrum have defended the illegalization of political parties that do not think like you. Therefore, yes, you have passed many red lines, all linked to Article 1 of the Constitution and therefore you represent all but that value of harmony and coexistence that was represented by the Spanish Constitution more than forty years ago. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u14	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u15	Mr. Sánchez, how dare you talk to me about monologues if you always bring the written answers, if you never answer my questions? Answer at least today. What are you going to do to prevent VOX from continuing to cross the lines what do you say we cross? Please also tell me what you have not answered during this entire term: why did you lie to the Spaniards by promising them that you will not agree with these, with those and with those? [[Pointing to the seats of the Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Republican and Euskal Herria Bildu]] Answer me to that and then there will be no monologues, there will be political dialogue, something that has never been in this House because of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u16	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u17	It's just that with the far right, ladies and gentlemen, the world is upside down. [[Laughter]] You claim to be defenders of the Spanish Constitution, but you say that the Franco dictatorship is much better than today's democracy. [[Applauds]] They say we're anti-Spanish those Spaniards we don't think like you. Here's the thing. Look at your presence in this House alone, with your ladies and gentlemen as Members, what it represents is the greatness of Spanish democracy, which is capable of defending a society in which we are all, including you. However, you represent just the opposite, a society in which only you and your friends of the PP, and the rest outside, fit. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT PLANS DO YOU HAVE FOR THE LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/00510]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u18	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u19	Good morning, Mr. President. What plans do you have for what's left of the legislature? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Rufián, for your question. I reaffirm myself in everything I've been saying for the past few weeks. I believe that the agenda of the Government of Spain is the agenda and demands of Spanish citizens, live where they live. First, overcome the pandemic. I repeat again: it is no longer ninety-nine days but ninety-eight days left for us to achieve group immunity, i.e. 70% of the vaccinated population and thus immunized against VID-19. Secondly, we are seeing that the Spanish economy is already heating up engines, and we are seeing it in affiliation, in the reactivation of ERTE and in private consumption. In short, I think we can have a frankly positive second half of the year from the point of view of economic recovery. And, thirdly, to ensure that economic recovery is as fair as possible. We submitted the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to the European Commission a few days ago and we are waiting for it to be formally adopted by the European Commission. We are talking about two hundred and twelve reforms and investments, and therefore, Your Honor, we have thirty-two months of legislature to modernize our country, to ensure that Spain is in full swing, not only of opportunities for our young people, but also definitely overcoming the greatest calamity of the last hundred years of the history of humanity. Finally, with regard to the territorial debate - which I imagine will be yours too - I would like to say that the Spanish Government is in the process of having a government in Catalonia as soon as possible and we can resume the much-needed territorial dialogue for Catalonia and for the whole country. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u22	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u23	Thank you very much, President. Mr. President, I'm going to make you a confession. These are curious times in which the ultra-right and the Spanish right sometimes coincide in accusations regarding Catalan right-wing independence refers. To this group, this extraordinary parliamentary group is called - to me specifically - Socialists; Socialists for believing, for betting on dialogue, for politics with you. [[pointing out the seats of the Republican Parliamentary Group]] And specifically they call it me, which I have made the wildest speech against you for giving the Presidency of the Government to Mr Rajoy. [[Rumors]] And they tell me specifically, that I have relatives who have wept and died watching their betrayals and their traps in the '90s. What these people do not understand, what they do not understand is this ultra-right that cries out and that Catalan independence of the right, is that we do not want to dialogue, to make politics with you, because we are the same as you; we want to dialogue and to make politics with you, because we are the opposite of you. [[Laughter]] Because that's what this is about. We don't believe in you. I don't believe in you, I believe in the historical moment that we all have to live. I don't believe in your will, I believe in your need. Mr President, I know you would love it if there were fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty Members of Parliament and Members of the People's Party here, but I have to tell you that citizens' voters were on the bus that accompanied Edmundo Bal to the Telemadrid debate. [[Rumors]] And above all, I have to say that in Madrid you won the left to your left, and I hope you will take note, both of you and of your Moncloa raffles. Whatever he doesn't do now, he's not going to do it with a PP and VOX government, and if not, ask Zapatero. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u24	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is, Mr Rufián, it has been difficult for me to follow your intervention a little. [[Rumors]] I do not know if we are in pre-campaign already electoral - which I hope we are not - in Catalonia, but what I thought I understood is that you question whether this Government and in particular I am willing to dialogue and to understand myself with Republican Left, being aware that we are opposites, as you say - at least we are opposites in what is the vision of how to solve the Catalan question. Your Honor, what I can assure you is that, of course, this government is going to comply with its re-encounter road map between Catalan society and Catalan society with Spanish society, no doubt. Secondly, Your Honor, man, I think that when you get to this point, perhaps in Catalonia you could think of a left-wing government, because there is a parliamentary majority in the Parliament of Catalonia led by the winner of the elections, which is the Party of Catalan Socialists. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE FIRST VICE-PRESSANT CONSIDER THAT THE SPAIN DESERVES THIS CHANCE AND DEGOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00518]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u26	Question addressed to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruíz Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u27	Thank you, President. Madam Vice President, let's talk about curfew. Baleares and the Valencian Community do have it; however, the Canary Islands, Navarra and the Basque Country have not, but the courts have rejected it. You don't rule and legislate or let legislate, and now you pass the hot potato to the judges. Exactly a year ago, as the press reported on these dates in 2020, you promised a legal reform to enable instruments during the pandemic without having to resort to the state of alarm. [[shows a cover of the newspaper El Mundo]] He also announced that this reform would come to Congress very quickly and called on all of us to cooperate. The People's Group, of course, gave it to him. A year later, the state of alarm has just ended. So what do we got? The chaos. And the responsibility lies with the government, not with the citizens, who are fed up with lies, pride and their vagaries. With you you can only have two clear things, which always lie to you and which will always raise your taxes. As García-Page says, which is not precisely the People's Party, the alarm runs out and falls, but the state does not. That is why I ask you: Do you consider that the Spaniards deserve this chaos and disgovernment? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u28	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, I will describe exactly - I am very grateful that today your leader has claimed the State Official Gazette here, because yesterday your colleague in the Senate came to say that it was foolish - what is the situation of governance in our country: almost 20,000 compatriots with some already protected vaccination dose, and the mobilization of economic resources through six laws and thirty-seven royal decrees to carry out a historical social protection in the recent history of Spain. That is the governance of this country. We have to go to the BOE and stop saying a sentence that produces a shambles, that of power at all costs, Mr. Casado. Look at him, because this is a democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u30	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u31	Mrs Calvo, what does BOE want us to talk about, which in the preamble insults the People's Party as if this were a Bolivarian republic, or which states that we must convene the Conference of Presidents, that you trample and do not summon and that they are asking you even the autonomous presidents of the Socialist Party? [[shows a document]] [[applause]] [[shows another document]] What happens to them, Mrs. Calvo, is that they are nervous because they see how the poor management of the pandemic they are carrying out takes them forward and that is going to be their new normality. Do you know what they're hiding? They hide their parliamentary weakness. To make some laws they would have to rely on the votes of the People's Group and are willing not to do so, making us all pay the toll of health insecurity. Mrs Calvo, I demand that you stop blocking the People's Party's legal plan B. Give him the consent. Let us legislate, as the autonomous communities and the judges ask us. Solve the miscontrol on the streets... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, at last, after many years, you have had an electoral victory. Well, not you, Mrs. Ayuso. [[Rumors]] That should make them a little quieter and not have that despair, which I see will not cease. The control session is a relief for you. This government in B - in B - does not want anything; it wants everything in A. We have made very important point changes, some of which originate in some modification that you made in 2000. I'll tell you more. The decisions are taken by the autonomous governments and our courts always control at the last minute the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, because this is a rule of law; it seems that you have just discovered it right now. I'll tell you what's troubling the government. The Government is concerned that you are seeking changes to weaken the control of the quality of these rights, because the three things we have seen aim at paint badly to weaken Spanish democracy. Do you know what they are? Skip the state of alarm, fail to comply with the Organic Law of General Electoral Regime in these last elections or pretend to fine those who do not want to vaccinate, as the Xunta of Galicia has done. His plan B is troubling us. This government is going to keep the quality of the rule of law intact despite a pandemic in which you have not helped anything. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY THEOTOR GARCIA EGEA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: DOES THE Vice-President THIRD CREATE THAT THE ELECTORAL RESULTS IN THE COMMUNITY OF MADRID EVALUATE YOUR POLITICAL PROGRAMME IN THE MINISTRY OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY? [[File number 180/000519]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u34	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Teodoro García Egea, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Díaz, you have often been thrown into the government in Madrid. In the end the only one who has resigned has been Mr Franco, the final guilt always has the same. [[Laughter]] Today the Spanish left, Mrs. Díaz, is anniversary. Today you are on the anniversary of the biggest social cut in the history of democracy approved by a socialist government. The story repeats itself. With the vote in favour of the young Member, Pedro Sánchez, Zapatero froze the pensions, lowered the salary of the officials by 5% and cut all the social games. That day was the beginning of the end of Zapatero, just as May 4 was the beginning of the end of Pedro Sánchez. Today we have heard here that the green shoots, Plan E, and even Zapatero himself return. Mrs Díaz, bearing in mind that you in the campaign asked for a majority to speak, and most of you have spoken, do you believe that the results of the Madrid Community support your political programme in the field of employment? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u36	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u37	Your Honor, what supports the political programme of the Government of Spain is the work and dedication to citizenship, whether from Vigo, Madrid or Barcelona. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u38	Mr. García Aegean.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, do you know why this government suffers so much wear? Because you are ruling against people, and in the end you are the most radical government in Europe, but I recognize the merit that normally the big coalition party eats the little one, but in this case the PSOE goes from sorpasso to sorpasso until the final defeat. Almost six million people want to work and cannot - you say what you say - between the unemployed, self-employed with cessation of activity and people who are in ERTE. His only response to the economic catastrophe in Spain is therefore an unusual rise in taxes to the whole of Spain; that is his response. You say you're only going to raise taxes to the rich. Is the self-employed person who uses his vehicle to travel and the road as an office rich? Are those rich people who insult currency and charge 900 euros and, obviously, vote for the PP because they want to keep working and they want to keep getting a job? Or is the commercial that drives a truck rich and that has to do the distribution and uses the roads, as I said, as an instrument of work? You don't want to raise taxes on the rich, you want to raise taxes to remain rich. Therefore, not a single cut in superfluous spending in his Government, not a single cut in the most expensive and numerous government in history. And in the end, Mrs Díaz, the Spaniards do not want alms, the Spaniards want jobs, whatever you do not give them, although today we have had a lot of words for you and for Mrs Calvo. The Spanish no longer expect anything from their Government, they know that the economic policy of the Government today is a state of permanent alarm, that state of alarm in which the SMEs, the families and the self-employed have entered. Mrs. Díaz, you asked her for the second time, will you do something? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u40	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u41	Mr. García Aegean, I'm going to recommend a book: The Art of Political Lie. You and your party, the People's Party, have a problem, and it's that you forget that citizenship has memory. Talk about clippings here today; I'll talk about memory. The Spaniards remember perfectly when you ruled those black Fridays of pains, with cuts in pensions, in unemployment benefits, with evictions, with suffering and with pain. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u42	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u43	That's what the Spaniards remember in our country. Mr. García Aegean, as much as I repeat it a thousand times, it's not going to turn into truth. I'm going to repeat the data again. The only historical moment when we had a historic unemployment rate, at 27%, was when his party, the People's Party, ruled 56% youth unemployment. [[Rumors]] You, with your management, have destroyed 3 300 000 jobs, and today, Mr García Eggea, as much as it bothers you, there are only 200 000 jobs left to recover in order to be in the pre-pandemic situation. Your party, Mr. García Aegean, should be pleased by these facts. But since you're talking about Madrid, I'm going to talk about Madrid. In Madrid, the Government of Spain has deployed an unprecedented social shield: more than 610,000 people in ERTE and more than 190,000 autonomous people who have been protected. If it had not been for the Government of Spain, its management would be chaos. And I'm going to talk to you about the management of the People's Party in Madrid. Do you want to explain to me, Mr García Eggea, how does your party explain that after twenty-eight months - I insist, twenty-eight months - we remain without a budget in the Community of Madrid, the only autonomous community that today has no budget? Do you know what would happen if I ruled the left, do you know what you would say, Mr. García Aegean? I give you a little advice: abandon that aphorism that reminds Spain; do not let Spain fall and then get it back to you. Support the Government of Spain and work for the common good. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Macarena OLONA CHOCLAN, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTRE OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: IN WHAT DOES THE PRESENCE OF THE EXTERMAL QUIERD IN THE GOVERNMENT BENEFIT BENEFIT THE WORK MARKET? [[File number 180/00525]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u44	Question by Mrs Macarena Olona Choclán, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u45	With all due respect, Madam President. I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u46	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u47	President, as I repeat the same question that was put to me on 21 April, I also take it that my answer is reproduced. I'll keep an eye out for listening, see if there's anything new in it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u48	Mrs. Olona.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u49	With all due respect, Madam President. You don't know how I thank you, communist minister, for taking the answer you gave me in the last session of control, because today I come to flinch in your lies and contradictions, because you lied in this House. Caixabank has announced the largest ERE in the history of Spanish banking, 16% of the workforce goes to the street: 8291 workers. And listen, minister, listening to her talk would seem like you have nothing to do with these layoffs; pure communist propaganda. Let's get to the reality of the facts. On May 6th, the managing director of the new entity offered a press conference and in it he was responsible for responding to his communist propaganda by reminding the Spaniards of the truth you are trying to hide: the staffing adjustment was part of the merger and the State was aware of it at the time of authorizing the merger. Could they have avoided those layoffs? Of course they could have been avoided, Communist minister, because it turns out that the state had absolute control over Bankia by being the owner of more than 60%. Therefore, when the Government, at the shareholders' meeting in Bankia on 1 December, had to approve the merger operation it could perfectly have conditioned the operation to adequate employment protection. But they didn't, they protected the bank. Since you speak to Mr. Teo García Aegean in memory, do you remember when you promised the Spaniards that you would storm the skies and force the banks to return the 65 billion euros with which the savings banks were rescued? It turns out that you have protected the banks and now you pay the consequences to the 8291 workers who are going to be fired. But let's continue with your communist propaganda, Minister. What is it that you are not aware of the salaries that the new president of Caixabank is going to receive? But we have now discovered that on 30 March, in a board meeting, where this government has a representative who pays EUR 140 000 per year, the government voted in favour of the new president's salary proposal: EUR 1.650 000 per year plus a bonus of EUR 200 000. And His Government voted in favour. Tell the Spaniards what they are going to do at the next meeting to be held this Friday, 14 May, when that proposal has to be ratified. With this reality, communist minister, we are not surprised that last May 1 until you went out to protest against yourself. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u50	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u51	Your Honor, it happens to you as Abascal, it confuses the House of People's Sovereignty precisely with that foundation in which it seems that he was serving. In short, both Abascal and you do one thing: Control+C, Control+V, copy and paste. This is exactly what you did today in this control session. Look, Your Honor, I'm going to talk to you about your political agenda as you're talking about what you've shown us today. You, today, continue to allow and defend that the Spaniards can be dismissed when they are sick, and not only allow it, but have taken it to the Constitutional Court. Today, you, with whom you are falling, are defending the privatization of public pensions, are defending the privatization of health care and are defending the privatization of public education. This is your election program to get out of this crisis. Your Honor, look, there is a great open discussion in the world, which goes from the United States, with President Biden, to the Roman pontiff or even, indeed, with the European Union, and you do not give an answer. Again, as much as it bothers you: with the biggest fall in GDP in Spain's history, of 11%, the unemployment rate for the first time in history - and the Spanish government does not say so, the international agencies say - has fallen by only 1.5%; when the party in which you were ruling destroyed 3.3 million jobs. And today I say again that there are only 200 000 missing to have the number of social security membership before the crisis. It would be good, sir, for you to do something for Spain. Despite its tone, its forms, its lack of proposals and its aggression against the social majority of our country, of course I will not be distracted and neither will the Government of Spain, and we will continue to work to improve people's lives. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SERGIO SAYAS LÓPEZ, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: HOW IS THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN GOING TO USE THE EUROPEAN FUNDS TO SUPPORT THE NAVARRA INDUSTRY? [[File number 180/00514]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u52	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Sergio Sayas López, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u53	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, we shipwrecks are very concerned about the European funds that will reach our industry. So far we are hearing a lot of words, yes, but very little commitment from the Spanish Government. I ask you to make concrete commitments in two very important areas. First of all, the car industry. Mrs. Chivite announced that the Volkswagen plant in Navarre was going to manufacture an electric car, and I tell her that it seems to me that it is much more smoke than reality. That's why I ask you directly, is an electric car model going to be manufactured on the Volkswagen plant? Yes or no? Is there a commitment on the part of the Ministry of Industry to make this a reality? Secondly, Mrs Chivite - at the New Economy Forum - also announced that Navarra was going to work for the establishment of a battery cell factory, but the truth is that the following week we saw the Basque government announce that this plant was going to go to Álava and that in Navarra we were going to have to conform with a assembly plant. Of course, it is not the same, in the first case we are talking about an investment of EUR 700 million and in the second, of EUR 70 million. Once again it seems that you understand each other much better with your PNV partners than with the Navarra government, even though it is your party - the Socialist Party - and that you leave Euskadi the fat piece of the cake while in Navarra we have to settle for the crumbs. I would like you to stop turning your back on the Navarro citizens, who are already feeling very beaten up by the Sánchez government. Another issue that is fundamental to us is the agri-food industry. There is a key project for Navarra that is the Ebro Food Valley and I would like to know what is the Ministry of Industry's commitment to this CNTA-led project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u54	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u55	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the only one here who turns his back on the shipwrecks is you. I am surprised that you are asking the question you have just asked me because I would like to remind you that you voted against speeding up the implementation of the European funds. He also voted against the 2021 State General Budgets, which, as you know, will be the tool to channel these funds. You, Your Honor, have tried to block in this House the arrival of European funds with your partners in the People's Party, but you have failed to do so and we will certainly continue to implement funds that are fundamental to the recovery of the Spanish economy, also of the Navarra economy and its industry. Navarra knows this; it certainly has important assets in the industry and the Government of Navarra has done a good job, because it has identified projects that will undoubtedly have great potential to absorb these funds. In addition, we have a very close dialogue not only with the outside government, but also with the Navarro business sector, which is essential at the moment to be able to present the best projects. And, yes, Navarra will have electric car. We will support the project you have pointed out, the Ebro Food Valley project. In short, the Navarra industry, Your Honor, has been the protagonist of the changes that have taken place in the last decades in Spain and, despite you, it will also be in the Recovery Plan. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u56	Mr. Sayas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u57	Minister, whether the European funds bring money or not, we will see it. Of course, what they clearly bring is a lot of opacity. So far, we are talking about dialogue, speeches by tambolers, hollow words, empty words, but, of course, commitments by the Government of Spain, none. And we need that commitment to Navarra. Our community has been the community in which unemployment has increased the most over the past year in terms of year-on-year if we take into account the EPA of the last quarter. The number of unemployed in Navarre has grown by 35%, nothing more and nothing less, and I see that the Canarian community, which has been hit by the lack of tourism, has fallen by only 26% in the number of unemployed. Something is doing very badly by the Government of Navarre and something is doing very badly by the Government of Spain with the lack of commitments to our land. That we have industrial assets? We know that, Minister. What we know too... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Sayas. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u59	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we already know your recipes; your recipes are austerity and cuts, we saw it in the previous crisis. Ours are social protection and investments, investments that will undoubtedly take advantage of the Navarra industry to develop projects in sectors that, as you know, are leaders; sectors in the field of agri-food, in the field of automotive, in the field of renewable energy, biotechnology or health. In all these sectors, Your Honor, we are going to mobilise European funds, which you have tried to block. I am convinced that electric mobility, green hydrogen or the project you have pointed out, the Ebro Food Valley, will be future projects. You have brought nothing, Your Honor, any ideas to save the crisis. In short, they have been raising doubts about vaccination, raising doubts about the implementation of European funds and, instead, the Spanish Government has been working, yes, for Navarren society, to protect employment by developing a safety net that will protect many companies and many jobs. I'd tell you, Your Honor, to think if you're on the bright side of the story. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE SUPPORTED GIRL AGUSTIN ALODOBAR BARCELÓ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY TO AVOID SPAIN FROM EXCLUDING THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT FROM THE GREEN LIST OF SAFE COUNTRIES TO TRAVEL? [[File number 180/00526]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u60	Questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question posed by Mr Agustín Almodóbar Barceló, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u61	Thank you, President. What has been the strategy to prevent Spain from being excluded by the British Government from the green list of safe countries to travel?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u62	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, Spain's strategy is to explain, explain and explain all the efforts Spain is making to control the pandemic within our borders. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u64	Mr. Almodóbar.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u65	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, let me first of all regret that Minister Maroto is not answering me. In September I told him that she was missing and that she had abandoned tourism; life remains the same. That's right, he appeared to do electoral tourism in Madrid in that attempt to abandon the ship called chaos that represents the government and that is going to peck with Captain Sánchez to the head. Look where, in the end, the Madridns sank them. The UK's closure to tourism in Spain, by not including us in the list of destinations to which the British can travel without restrictions, removes the possibility of recovery from an essential part of tourism in our country and will have a tremendous cost to Spain. But we could have avoided it, because both the businessmen and the People's Group have been asking them for a long time to deploy all the available diplomatic instruments so that we can have those brokers safe. And it is that, at the gates of the summer, countries that compete with Spain, like our neighbor Portugal, are positioned as safe destinations and present their measures to attract tourists. While, here, the Government's inaction is more than manifest, such as the delay in vaccination against other countries, which, even after having vaccinated the most sensitive groups, have proceeded to immunize the most exposed sectors, such as tourism. All this puts the tourist season at risk and threatens our competitiveness as the favourite destination for the British. Look, Minister, there is nothing more you are asked to defend tourism and protect it, and you have abandoned it. I am from Benidorm, and, like my city and the Costa Blanca, many destinations in Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Andalusia or Catalonia have a great dependence on British tourism. Their problem is they haven't stepped on their streets in these fourteen months. I do, every day. I have seen the busiest avenues completely empty, our deserted beaches, closed hotels, bars and restaurants, shops, complementary offer. You are not aware of the suffering of people. They do not feel the slightest empathy with the sector that has given us the most joys and will continue to give us; thousands of companies that by their inaction will remain closed. Minister, do you know what it means for Spain to lose May and June to the United Kingdom? I tell you: 27 million overnight stays, more than 37 billion euros, 4 million tourists. They said they weren't going to leave anyone behind; what they're not going to leave is no one standing. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u66	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. The United Kingdom has recently published a traffic light listing countries - countries, not regions - on the basis of the epidemiological situation in each country. Spain has been and continues to work with the United Kingdom To share with it all the information at the national level and, by the way, also at the regional level on the incidence of COVID, the tests being carried out, and the variants and how to identify them, so that the United Kingdom has confidence in the way in which Spain and its autonomous communities are managing the evolution of COVID. But of course, Your Honor, suddenly an autonomous community arrives with a president at the head who says that what matters in this country is freedom, that what matters is to get out of the canes, that what matters is to go to the bulls, that what matters is mobility when it pleases you, where it pleases you. [[rumors]] [[Protests.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u68	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u69	Moreover, those who say that we must respect rules of social distancing, those who say that we must be careful, those who say that we must be responsible are accused of being communists. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? That the figures of that community - by the way, of the worst in our country - count for the average of our country, count for the average that the British are using to place Spain in its traffic light. [[Protests Continue]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what I recommend is that if you really care about tourism - I certainly care about tourism, the Government of Spain certainly does care about tourism - if your political group cares about tourism, please make sure that you control the pandemic, make sure that you invite citizens to respect the guidelines, make sure you encourage citizens at this time to be responsible, and so we will get the United Kingdom to put us in the green light. [[Rumors]] And by the way, if you don't do that, frankly, we don't need your crocodile tears. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARIONE ILLAMOLA DAUSÀ, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: IS THIS MINISTER INSISTENT, AS SHE DID IN A RECENT INTERVIEW FOR PUBLIC TELEVISION OF ESTONIA, THAT THE CONFLICT BETWEEN CATALUONE AND SPAIN IS AN INTERNAL MATTER? [[File number 180/00511]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u70	Question from the Member... [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Pause]] Question by Mrs Illamola Dausà, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u71	Is this minister still insisting that the conflict between Catalonia and Spain is an internal matter?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u72	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u73	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Catalonia is not in conflict with Spain. His lordship confuses a part - an important part, although not a majority - with the whole. Who is in conflict is independence with their own society when they say they want a Catalonia of half plus one, when in reality what Catalans want is a Catalonia of half plus the other half. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u74	Mrs. Illamola.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u75	Minister, have you ever heard your French or German counterparts claim that your country is a full democracy? Unlike you, or your predecessors, or your fellow government officials, they do not do so because no one doubts that. Spain is an anomaly in Europe for its systematic violations of the rights of a national minority such as the Catalan minority. The way in which States deal with the political demands of the minorities who make up them is what differentiates them from the true democracies, from the States which are compounded with their history and with authoritarian impulses. And in this sense, minister, comparing a peaceful movement like Catalan with the murders of a terrorist group, as you did in an interview for the New York Times, is improper for a ruler. The United States has included in its report on the rule of law of human rights the situation of Catalan political prisoners and the content is nothing positive for the external image of Spain: it mentions the conclusions of the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, which considers the imprisonment of Catalan leaders as a form of political intimidation. Do you know why you have to defend Spain's democratic credentials every time you embark on official travel? Because abroad, despite their diplomatic pressures, they see with their own eyes that their response to the Catalan national minority is not to offer a political solution, but to imprison or force their leaders into exile. There are those who would like to move on; there are others, like you, who play with the figures to adapt them to their interests without too much success, because the reality is clumsy: 52% of Catalan voters want independence and now want it. In the interview on a public television in Estonia, you were offended by the comparisons between Russia and Spain. It is certainly intolerable for a country to have political prisoners, namely Navalny, Junqueras or Turull. They invest less in propaganda and more in fulfilling the values of the European Union and its international commitments. They want to lead the defense of human rights defenders, but who will recognize that authority if Jordi Cuixart and JordiSánchez are in prison? Take Canada or the United Kingdom as an example, leave the Turkish track; do so or continue to deserve the qualification that CNN placed on them on October 1, 2017: The Shame of Europe. Good morning. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u76	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u77	Thank you very much, President. The Government of Spain considers that the solution to the crisis posed by the independenceist demand of the Catalan Government and part of Catalan society must be found starting with Catalan society and then, and together, within Spanish society. All foreign governments, all without exception, agree with what I have just said. And not only the governments, so are the Community institutions, the European Union, so is the Commission, so is the Council, so is the European Parliament. But we don't stay there, so are all international organizations. No authority, no Government, no international body has claimed the need for international intervention to resolve the situation in Catalonia, which is in Spain. And it will not be, Your Honor, because you have not invested time and effort in seeking that precisely. Not yet, Your Honor, they've done it. Think about it. But let me tell you something else. I used to tell you that you want a half a Catalonia plus one, but it's that now, as you're at the grudge, it's not even this, it's the Catalonia of a quarter plus one. That's what they're doing now. In Catalonia there are fewer and fewer people, and that is an internal problem, that is a problem of armchairs and rivalries. The Catalans do not want that, the Catalans want agreement, the Catalans want unity, the Catalans want answers to the crisis and that is what we must give them, ladies and gentlemen. So, less talk and more do, and more do for everyone and all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MOUNTAIN MONTSERRAT BASSA COLL, OF THE REPULIC PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING TO THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CONSIDER THAT LEGISLATIVE CHANGES ARE REQUIRED WITH REGARD TO THE FUNCTIONING OF THE FISCAL MINISTER? [[File number 180/00485]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u78	Question to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Montserrat Basa Coll of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u79	Spain is still at war with Catalonia. The court of reckoning, unable to pursue and recover all the money stolen by the corrupt, is now trying to ruin the independence leaders and our families. The Bureau of Congress prevents the processing of the amnesty law on grounds of unconstitutionality while allowing the debate of the proposed VOX law, clearly unconstitutional. The judges deny the third degree of imprisonment to our political prisoners and prisoners and maintain all the repressive machinery against the 3000 independenceists, and the prosecution is aligned, as we saw in the judgment of shame, with the thesis of VOX. We are aware that there are courts and prosecutors who, in response to their ideology, stand up as avengers of the homeland, the question is that the Office of the Prosecutor is only one and responds to a hierarchical structure in which all prosecutors must obey the Attorney General of the State. If the Attorney General of the State is unable to stop the vengeful prosecutors in their war against Catalonia, then the law must be changed or the Attorney General of the State must be changed. Therefore, I ask you: Should the law of the prosecutor's office be changed?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u80	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Bassa, I'm sorry to tell you this, but I think you're missing the concept of the rule of law and the role of the prosecution. The Government is engaged in a reform process, as you well know, which is condensed into two laws, two preliminary drafts: the Criminal Prosecution Act and the European Prosecutor's Office Act. These are two laws that will undoubtedly enhance the role of the fiscal ministry by consolidating those principles that have made it great, because I am going to say one thing, without acridity, without raising the voice: the fiscal ministry responds specifically to the principle of legality, acts impartially and under the principles of unity of action and hierarchical dependence, and does so in defense of citizens' rights, does so in defense of legality and the public interest. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u82	Mrs. Bassa.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u83	I was imagining your answer, Minister, but, look, Article 8.1 of the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office literally states: 'The Government may be interested in the Attorney General of the State who promotes the relevant proceedings before the courts in order to defend the public interest'. Does the Spanish Government consider that, in order to defend the public interest, repression against Catalonia must be curbed? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u84	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Bassa, don't look at that article as a threat to the prosecution. Of course, the Government, which, as the Constitution says, directs the internal and foreign policy of the State, has to have a relationship with the prosecutor's office!, but that is a relationship that it has with the whole judiciary because the Office of the Prosecutor is incorporated into the judiciary and we are talking about that it has to be presided over by institutional loyalty, by respect for legality and by preserving the constitutional role and role of each of the actors, in this case the prosecutor's office. Therefore, do not see a threat in that communication as to the general lines of criminal policy that can be established and incardinated there because this is required by the Constitution. Look, the Organic Statute of the Prosecutor's Office, the very final provision of the Criminal Procedure Act, to which I have referred, says that within a year it will have to be amended, because, of course, if we are looking for a new model of criminal procedure meeting European standards and the best doctrine - as you know - we must articulate it, but precisely to better regulate its functioning, adapted to the new model of criminal procedure that we want, where the prosecutor assumes the role of investigator and, therefore, we will have a tremendously constitutional prosecutor, who is the prosecutor who promotes the action of justice, and judges who will scrupulously comply with what the Constitution also says, which guarantees the rights of citizens. Therefore, a criminal prosecution law that gives more judge and more prosecutor. Support us. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA MARIA BELTRÁN VILLALBA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU THINK THAT THE PEOPLE'S PARTICIPATION IN BEING A CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION IS COMPATIBLE WITH YOUR CONTINUITY TO THE FRONT OF THE INTERIOR MINISTER? [[File number 180/00520]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u86	Questions to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana María Beltrán Villalba, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u87	Thank you, President. I take it the question is reproduced.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u88	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Beltrán. With regard to your question, which I hope you will all know, you know that I have not said any of that, and I will tell you as active and passive. In your case, I am convinced that it is not a problem of understanding, it is a problem strictly of conscience. But you have it very easily: with a simple penance you forget everything. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u90	Mrs. Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u91	Thank you, President. Mr. Grande-Marlaska, today I'm going to tell the face what millions of Spaniards want to tell you and can't. You used the election campaign in Madrid to call the main opposition party a criminal organization, and what you have to do is look in the mirror; a mirror in which no honest judge would recognize himself; a mirror in which no honest judge would ask public servants to jump the law. No one would rule with those who applaud the beating of police officers and those who refuse to investigate child abuse in the Balearic Islands. No minister with scruples would benefit the ages massively to please Bildu, a party that protects those who killed you and me without glances. No man of honor would prefer to understand himself with Otegi rather than with Married, with a gunman than with a Democrat. Mr. Marlaska, those who trusted you today only see Judas. I am not a career judge, but I am ashamed, and I will never call the Socialist Party a criminal organization, even though some of its members are involved in the biggest corruption case in our country's history, even though the money of the unemployed was spent on prostitutes and cocaine. Look, when you want to dirty the good name of the People's Party remember this: there is more dignity, courage and love for Spain in the humblest of our affiliates than in your entire government. [[Applauds]] And remember that he speaks of the largest party in Spain, with forty years of history, composed of men and women who have defended the Spaniards even knowing that it could cost them a shot in the forehead. Mr Marlaska, if you also want to know, remember that today we are the refuge of those socialists of race, tired of a government like yours selling Spain for a dish of lentils. Minister, if you don't know what a criminal organization is, ask the family members of Fernando Múgica or Joseba Pagaza. They will explain to you what you have forgotten by being a minister. [[Several Members: Very Good!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u92	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Beltrán. I see you're still having problems with your conscience. Do penance, don't worry. But I'll tell you, I haven't said it, and I won't say it. I'll tell you something about it again. Do some names ring a bell? Lezo, Avalmadrid, Púnica, Gürtel. These are different cases of corruption, where investigations and investigations have been carried out and where organized crime structures have been reported in these operations within the framework of the Madrid Community. Does that sound like you? Obviously, they are very serious facts, which have led some president of the autonomous community to enter provisional detention, and some counselor, too. Of course, they have done you much harm and, I am with you, they have done much more harm to those members and militants of the People's Party that it is true that they do break up working on principles that, whether they are shared or not, are democratic. To those you, or part of your party, have done much harm. I'll tell you again that we haven't called or called. You want to sell, do your own therapy and your particular therapy here. I've already told a fellow senator of yours, but you replay and repeat. You've called me everything. They try to return to that center, to that exemplaryness, and the only thing you want, with that sart of lies, with that verbrain that says nothing, is to deceive the whole of the Spaniards. You told me, when you started this reply, that you wanted to tell me something that the Spaniards would tell me; the Spaniards can tell me what they want, you sure wanted to tell me something more than they told me last Monday. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: TO THE PUBLIC OPINION THE DETENTION OF THE MEMBERS OF SAFETY CAN WE HAVE AGREED ON NATIONAL POLICIES DURING THE BOICOPT OF AN ELECTORAL ACT IN VALLECES? [[File number 180/00521]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u94	Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, what is criminal is to hide Podemos' arrests in the middle of the election campaign from all Madriders and all Spaniards. Why did you do it, Minister? [[A lady Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u96	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. I'm sorry to start by telling you that your question is an absurd and proper question of that style that you have to do politics. He also recently expressed a lack of knowledge about how the sanctions proposals are being dealt with. This kind of debate - I say it again, as I have said on some other occasions - is not like social media; we do not come here to give zascas, we come here to interact and, of course, to control the government. You should know that in all arrests, when there is a judicial operation, as in that case, it is the judicial authority that directs and defines, it is not the Ministry of the Interior. Maybe you remember other times. The State Security Forces and Bodies, in times of electoral process, are primarily dedicated to ensuring that all political parties can carry out the campaign by making known what their political projects are, that is, to guarantee rights and freedoms. If allegedly criminal conduct occurs, it acts in this sense; if it is to be stopped, it stops, and that is what happened at that time and always under the direction of the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u98	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u99	Minister, don't hide yourself in justice. You've convicted an innocent gentleman of murdering his wife in Valladolid. You have attacked the neutrality of justice. Do not hide yourself in a court order to hide the arrests. It is outrageous to see how those who play their lives for us are kicked by the thugs of Mr. Pablo Iglesias; it is outrageous to see how violence against the police and opposition parties is induced by the party Podemos. Mr. Marlaska, concealment is complicity. You are an accomplice to the farce that Mr. Pablo Iglesias set up to radicalize the campaign; you are the necessary co-operator, because you hid the arrests while airing the four winds the threats that the members of the government received. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want a government that lies, we do not want a minister who hides the truth. You are the minister of ignominy; the one who did not protect the police or the Civil Guard in the pandemic; the one who wanted to control social networks; the one who kicked in the door; the one who approached ages; the one who was convicted of arbitrary cessation; the one who hides very serious information in the electoral campaign as he goes up to a rally to say insults and stupidities; the one who covered up the Generalitat against the vaccination of police and civilian guards. In other words, the repression of dictatorships. Such shame had never been seen in the ministry. You went to present the traffic signals the other day. For he should not have seen one that put'stop' to his bad management in the ministry, or one that put'street without exit' to his political trajectory, or one that put 'danger of detachment', that we all see around him, and, most importantly, neither you nor Mr. Sánchez saw the one that the Spaniards are putting them and recently the Madridns, the one of 'give the step'. They turned their ministries into branches of the PSOE in Madrid; they lost the honor to win the elections, and they lost the honor and the elections. [[Applauds]] Minister, you are today the worst minister of democracy, the worst; the other has already left last week. You go, Mr. Marlasca! [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u100	Minister for the Interior
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. We're still on social media. You come here, you throw me all the diatribes, everything you have, but I guarantee you that at least this week will be quiet until next Wednesday. That, for your friends and your people, it has to be very quiet and they'll thank me. [[Mrs. Vazquez Blanco: How, how? No! No!]] That's why I'm sure they don't want me to resign or leave. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] But, following the development of his argument... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u102	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u103	... What is missing is that ministry of the political police, of the reports prepared, formalized, of trying to hide evidence, of all these things. That Ministry of the Interior is what you like, that must be the democratic ministry. Perhaps that's why I'm going to propose that you bring in proposals for legislative reform here too so that we can skip judicial investigation, the secret of judicial investigation; so that the State Security Forces and Bodies do not follow the directives of the judiciary; so that data protection - does data protection sound to you? - does not have any importance or relevance; so that we can already make that constitutional reform and leave without meaning, without content, article 14 of the Constitution, relating to the principle of equality - sounds to you?-, or article 24, of presumption of innocence, articles of that relevance, which have made us all a democracy, yes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANDRES LORITE, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: THE SPAINS WHO WILL HAVE TO PAY PAY PAY FOR MOVING ON THE ROAD? [[File number 180/00522]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u105	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mr Andrés Lorite Lorite, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u106	Mr Ábalos, one news: you have lost the elections in Madrid. And it is that their punishments to the Madridns could not go out for free, as their continuous lies and their concealment of reality by electoral strategy cannot go out for free. All this will end up paying you and your Government. But in the meantime, do you know who you're going to pay and you're going to pay very expensive? The middle classes and working classes of this country. Every time you rule, you put your hand in the pocket of the Spaniards, you squander, you fill the unemployment lists, and we end up in crisis. The imposition of tolls is a very damaging measure for society as a whole, which hampers competitiveness and economic recovery. Today you come with two reports under your arm, one from a decade ago and another from a half decade ago, which clearly did not start. I beg you not to do the same ridiculous thing you did yesterday in the Senate. Mr Ábalos, during the internal conflicts of the Socialist Party in Andalusia Susana Díaz harshly rejects the imposition of tolls, do you agree with your partner? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u107	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u108	Thank you, President. Mr. Lorite, see if we've hidden it from you that it's published in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and that's why you're talking to me. But before we were included in this plan, we had this debate. It's recurring. I have never hidden the need to reflect on the financing of the largest network of high-capacity roads in Europe, which is curiously outside European policy. I see that you have been attentive to yesterday's sitting in the Senate - it was no longer necessary, because then the discoordination would be tremendous - and, indeed, I took out these two reports: one of the year 2012 and this one of 2018, shortly before I took office as minister, in which I intended to put it into effect in the year 2021. [[the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Ábalos Meco, shows a document]] You say: No; they are reports. In my case, they don't even get any reports, and you're thinking about it as if we've taken the step. You guys were a lot more advanced. I don't even have this. I don't even have this. [[Mr Ábalos Meco, Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, presents documents]] And since you're asking me for an opinion, I'm going to ask you for a more important opinion for me, Mr. Casado's. Mr. Married, do you agree with this? Because the economic sectors tell me that you tell them otherwise. I want to be calm too and know if you are actually against this, because if you are, we are all clear. And if that's the case and there's no consensus, don't worry either, because for this everyone's agreement is necessary, and if there isn't, it won't come out. It's not going to impose anything. In fact, all there is is a reflection, an invitation to debate. [[Rumors]] That it's not possible to argue? We take note of it too. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u109	Mr. Lorite.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u110	Mr. Ábalos, to know what the tabernacle is, all you have to do is listen to you. [[Rumors]] Look, please don't lie anymore. It was the Council of Ministers that approved it and sent it to Brussels. [[Applauds]] Minister, stop lying! Don't lie to the Spaniards anymore! No previous Government has approved that, no previous Government. You have deceived the transporters by telling them that you were going to agree with them, and you have not agreed with anyone at all, neither with the transport sector, with business and trade union organisations, with autonomous communities or with parliamentary forces. Minister, your ministry has become a factory of lies, but it is also the ministry of tolls, Mr Ábalos: firstly, those you paid to the independenceists, via the General Budgets of the State, as a gift check, and secondly, those you now intend to apply on the roads for the conservation and maintenance of your waste, those of this government, of which you do not intend to lower even one euro. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u111	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u112	I insist: there is no detailed plan, there is no detailed proposal. This introduction of tariffs, paid for the use of roads, for the Delegated Committee on Economic Affairs is yours, not ours. We haven't come this far. You guys came up with this. But, look, in the field of facts, what matters is that we are the only government in Spain, the only government, which has not extended a motorway concession. We have released 550 kilometers last December 2019 and we will release this year 480. That has not been done by any other Government. We have increased transport subsidies by 70% and reduced radial tolls by 30%. In short, it is the Government that has improved the issue of tolls the most. We've saved 11 billion users on tolls. What are you telling me? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED BARANDIARIAN BENITE GIFT, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WILL YOU COMPLETE YOUR PROMISE AND BUDGETARY COMMITMENT ACQUIRED WITH THIS PARLIAMENTARY GROUP TO ELIMINATE STEPS AT LEVEL IN THE ZALLA MUNICIPY, IN VIZCAYA? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00515]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u114	Question by Mr Iñigo Barandiaran Benito, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u115	Good morning, Minister, Madam President. Aranguren is a nucleus of the municipality of Zalla, of Las Encartaciones de Bizkaia, where two lines of metric width, the Bilbao-Valmaseda and the Bilbao-Santander, converge in a small stretch where in less than one kilometre there are also up to six steps at different level, which interrupt their urban plot and which also create a serious risk. Already in 2017 there was a forecast for the elimination of some of these steps at a level that is now maintained, in the 2021 budget, even with larger amounts. However, not only have they not been executed, but the Zalla City Council has also received a notification from its ministry that it intends to start a preliminary information study now, with the consequent delay in the start of any implementation project. That attitude, Minister, seems unacceptable to us. We believe that it is a breach of the commitments made and, in addition, we believe that it is based on uncertain excuses. That is why I would like to ask you: Are you going to fulfill your commitment and budget commitment to this group by which the existing steps in the municipality of Zalla will be eliminated?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u116	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u117	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Barandiaran. I have said several times that security is a priority for the ministry; in fact, it is strategic. We must also add to this the political commitment we have with your parliamentary group, which is reflected both in the investment agreement and in the State's own general budgets. That's our will. Currently, in the municipality of Zalla there are 34 steps at level -34- in the two lines of metric width that run through the municipal term: 23 on the line La Asunción Universidad-Aranguren and 11 on the line Santander-Bilbao. We are working for the suppression and improvement of a total of 22 of those steps at level in a consensual manner with the city council, which we will have to properly formalize, promoting the direct closure of eight steps; the closure of another three through the construction of alternative connecting roads; three additional ones that will be closed by the construction of internal steps; four in which protection will be improved, including coordination with a traffic light if necessary, and four more that will be closed by the construction of a variant on the Aranguren-La Asunción University line. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u118	Mr. Barandiaran.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u119	Minister, with all due respect, I do not think you have answered the question. We are talking about Aranguren and a concrete problem that already in 2017, as a result of that forecast of the budgets, involved the existence of a pre-agreement between ADIF, the City of Zalla and URA, the Basque Water Agency, giving a concrete solution, which was to make a puncture, a transfer from one line to another, in order to avoid precisely the concrete problem that occurred in that particular municipality. It involved not only avoiding all steps at the level, but also a very important economic savings to get this issue out of the way. That is why, Minister, I simply say to you: if there is a technical solution, why is there no longer the political will to start these works immediately? It is not a question of starting a previous study, it is a question of drafting the project of execution of that work which, with a simple puncture, of an immediate solution to that problem. Proof of this is that it is not only we - our group - who have committed it, but that their own co-religionaries, the Socialist Party of Vizcaya, have had the disfavor of publishing both pamphlets in which they boast precisely of the next execution of these works of elimination of steps at level, which leads us to another question: with whom will they fail to fulfil their commitments? With us? With the people of Zalla? With your own party? With everyone? It's missing...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Barandiaran. Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u121	As I say to you, honourable Member, it is not a problem of political will, it is a problem that we have to do things as we are required to do, in accordance with the Railway Act. To delete these steps at the level, although we are talking about very little length, does not stop demanding a new layout. As I say, Law 38/2015 of the Railway Sector requires us to do. It requires an informational study and the corresponding environmental assessment. In order to ensure that these functional changes that require this informational study are not delayed any longer, we will commission this study to Ineco, through a commission in its own right, and we will ask the Ministry for the Ecological Transition to simplify the environmental assessment. For this it will also be very important the collaboration of the Basque Water Agency - it is a flood zone - with which, on the other hand, we are already in contact. We are trying to overcome the legal requirements imposed on us. It is not a problem of a political nature or of resources, but we have to comply with these procedures that the law requires and that we cannot jump. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UNDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHICH FORMS THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATIONS: WILL THE GOVERNMENT ACCOMPLISH WITH DISCRIMINATION SUBJECT TO THE REDUCTOR COEFICIENTS APPLICED IN ANTICIPATED JUDGMENT, SPECIALLY IN THE CASES OF CARRIERS LARGES OF COTIZATION? [[File number 180/00513]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u122	Questions to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u123	Good morning. Minister, Recommendation 12 of the Toledo Pact, which deals with the retirement age, reflects the concern that exists with regard to the various groups of pensioners in early retirement who are suffering unfair reductions in pensions. These are situations that are denouncing the pensioner movements of the Basque country and the state. The recommendation stated that these situations had to be analysed and identified, that a report had to be made and that within three months it would be handed over to the Commission. It said: Once the situation of those early retirements in which the application of reducing coefficients can produce an unfair effect has been determined, the Government will propose a response within three months to the Toledo Pact Commission. In view of the obvious non-compliance with this deadline, my question is whether your ministry, contrary to what is laid down in the pact, is going to put an end to the discrimination which some reducing coefficients apply in early retirements, especially in the case of long-term careers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u124	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u125	Thank you, President. Your Honor, Recommendation 12 of the Toledo Pact calls on us to analyse actuarial equity and the financial costs associated with the early retirement reduction coefficients. This is a very complex calculation if we want to do it very rigorously and very finely; we are finalizing it. As soon as it is completed, we will transfer it both to the social partners and to the Toledo Pact for evaluation. In the area of the Recovery and Resilience Pact, we have incorporated the possible conclusions of this analysis into the pension system modernisation block to be addressed during 2022. That is the timetable we have set. I remind you that there are twenty-nine recommendations made to us by the Toledo Pact. They are very complex; otherwise, they would have been studied long before, for decades. We're going systematically in your analysis. We have set a timetable for work both at European level and at the level of the social dialogue that establishes this temporary sequence. Be sure we'll approach him, yes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u126	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u127	He says they are studying, and I'm sure they are, but in the meantime they are making proposals that can continue to impact and deepen these inequities. In our view, situations of inequity are occurring. They are taking place in cases of persons with disabilities and in groups of occupations of special gravity and danger not currently covered by the legislation that have to retire in advance. They are discriminatory situations of retirements of persons affected by legislative changes throughout this period which are causing them serious harm; they are the situations of former and former mutualists and pensioners who involuntarily retire with thirty-five years or more of contributions; they are all that group of pensioners with more than forty years of contributions. We owe ourselves a respect or, at least, an explanation to know where these analyses are at present and, above all, retirees, pensioners need transparency, need clear answers and commitments to be met. That's why...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Pinedo, the commitment of this government and this minister to improving the equity of the pension system is absolute. Along with other elements in the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, fairness for me is a fundamental objective. And when I look at equity, I have to look at the ten million pensioners and all future pensioners as a whole, not those who mobilize more. I'm going to give you some data that is relevant. Do you know what is the most frequent contributory career at the retirement age of a pensioner in Spain in 2020? Forty-two years. The common is between thirty-eight and forty-five, up to forty-six years. Therefore, elements such as these must be taken into account when talking about long quotation races. Our system is not capitalized, our system has a very strong element of solidarity. Pensions must be paid to orphans, to persons who are disabled. There are a lot of situations that are paid precisely with contributions from longer periods. That is the essence of our system. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: DOES THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: CONSIDER THAT A DIFFERENT MODEL OF HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE SHOULD BE IMPLEMENTED TO WHICH MIGRANT PERSONS CAN BE DISTRIBUTED BETWEEN THE OTHER COMMUNITIES ON THE BASIS OF OBJECTIVE CRITERIA, [[File number 180/00499]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u131	Question by Mr Pedro Quevedo Iturbe, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u132	Thank you, Madam President. I'm giving it to you for reproduction.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u133	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u134	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u135	You have given up the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u136	All right. Do you want us to address the migration model that we have developed in the ministry? I would say to him that there are two central elements when it comes to assessing - I imagine that because of its origin it is particularly concerned about the situation in the Canary Islands - the first is a situation that is strongly arising and linked to the situation of the pandemic, that is, the borders have been closed, there have been massive arrivals. We have received 27,000 immigrants over a relatively concentrated period of time, we have had to deal with it practically without reception capacity, because for a decade in the Canary Islands no facilities or infrastructure were prepared to deal with this issue, we have been doing so on the move. I believe that the comprehensive management that we do from our ministry of all immigrants, taking into account their vulnerability profile, has been developing over time. In this sense I can tell you that we have been able in very little time to bring our reception system up to 7000 places and at the moment in our reception system in the Canary Islands there are 3200 immigrants, 3200 of the 27,000 who finally arrived. We have managed it in its entirety throughout the country and I believe that we have been able to absorb a very complicated situation in a very short time and that it had some ribets associated with the pandemic that are particularly difficult to manage in the midst of a situation as complex as the coronavirus has meant for us. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u137	Mr. Quevedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u138	Minister, the policy of the Government of Spain so far has been to make the Canary Islands suffer the consequences of the recent migration crisis simply because it is border territory with West Africa. This is true, this is what everyone knows and thinks. Consequences? Serious damage to the rights of migrants; the creation of a real wall, a new border between the Canary Islands and the rest of the state and the European Union; a policy of macro-centres in the Canary Islands, which we are already pushing forward and we will continue to reject; turning the Canary Islands into a prison for a group of people who do not want to stay there - and I would dare say that, for the most part, not in Spain - and giving a painful image of the Canary Islands that has turned the world around, as you know perfectly. Now you can tell me that the derivations have already increased. Yes, but they have increased not by a rectification of his Government's migration policy. No, no, it was because the Ombudsman, Amnesty International, has protested, more than 160 NGOs, because there is a ruling from a judge in Las Palmas de Gran Canaria who has forced to respect the right to travel of migrants, because the Canary Islands society has manifested itself by weight, the Parliament of the Canary Islands... And, after all that, there has been a change and an increase in referrals, with a problem of extraordinary gravity, which is that of unaccompanied foreign minors, around 3000 of those who have arrived in recent years are in the Canary Islands. This is an unacceptable figure, for unaccompanied foreign minors, who cannot be cared for as they deserve, and for the Government of the Canary Islands, who simply cannot cope with a monstrous number like that, as you are sure to know. For this reason we ask you to change your policy, you have to change your policy, you have to make a policy agreed with the Canary Islands and with all the autonomous communities, you have to produce criteria of referral and care for unaccompanied foreign minors, with objective criteria in each community and within the European community. And, for that, there is already an alternative, the Share alternative - to share, in Spanish - an alternative presented by the Basque Group at its time that we consider of the utmost interest. We will distribute according to the possibilities of each autonomous community, and the European Union cannot continue to punish the Canary Islands...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I cannot agree more with you in your analysis of the situation of unaccompanied minors, which, as you know, is completely autonomous competition. And I see that the margin for solidarity between autonomous communities in this area is very wide. As far as I am concerned and as far as we are concerned, which is from the age of eighteen, the comprehensive management that we make of all the reception resources throughout Spain has allowed the figures that I have told you. It has allowed the problem in the Canary Islands to be absolutely manageable right now, and we have done so in a very short time. It's just that the numbers and the numbers are there. Our reception system, which has capacity for 7000 people, is currently at 3200. That is the result of what we have done, and we have done so with the mechanisms we have established from the beginning. What happens is that when they arrive, they have to go through a quarantine. By the way, we are helping the De Canarias Government to quarantine, which is not our responsibility, 600 at the moment. My relationship with the Government of the Canary Islands... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u141	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Rumors]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. If you want to hold talks, leave the Chamber. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIRL OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT SUBJECT TAXES TO THE SPANISH? [[File number 180/00524]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u142	Questions to the Minister of Finance. Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, this is the fifth time I have asked you the same thing, but it is that the first three times you did not answer me and the fourth time, obviously, you did not tell me the truth. The Spaniards look at this government astonishment from the 22 ministries and the 236 high offices, this government which raises salaries while thousands of Spaniards lose their jobs, this government which devotes nothing less than 100 million euros this year to renewing its fleet of official cars. The Spanish have the right to know the truth, that truth that you reveal in Brussels but hide here in Spain. What you said to me that the socialist government would not raise taxes either to the middle class or to the worker was radically false, because 84% of its tax haven focuses precisely on average and low incomes. But not only that, Spain has become the only country in Europe with a recovery plan based precisely on a tax hike just in the midst of a devastating economic crisis. In the face of this evidence, I am already curious, Minister: will the government continue to raise taxes on the Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u144	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, Mr Espinosa, it is the fifth or sixth time that you ask me about this matter. What's more, you've never asked me about anything else. You always look at or focus on an issue that you believe brings you political revenue, and I will tell you again what I have always said to you: your model of society and the model of society that defends this government is radically different. You deny the intervention of the public, we believe that the welfare state is the real guarantee of security for all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u146	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u147	Thank you very much. I don't know what the finance minister is surprised to ask about taxes. If you want, you asked him about foreign affairs, internal affairs, prisons or prison policy. The normal thing about democracy, as you like to say, is that the Minister of Finance is asked about taxes. Anyway, as you have really done has been to leave no one behind referring to taxes, I ask you - because I see that you do not answer anything - who do you think will pay your tax increases? Who's going to pay the diesel tax? Who is going to pay the tuition and circulation tax increase, the rich? Who's going to pay the price increase for the light? What about the Google rate? What about the plane ticket tax? And who will pay the taxes on plastics and waste? Who will pay for their increases in wealth, donations and estates? Who's going to pay the sugary beverage tax, Minister, and the rich? And the rise in VAT reduced and superreduced? And the pink VAT, the one that was going to suppress the feminist government? Who are you going to sand with the elimination of deductions, reductions and bonuses? Who do you think is affected by the rise in the price of self-employed people? Who's going to be affected more by charging for tolls on all highways, the rich, do you really believe that? Look, minister, it's the fifth time I've asked you and it's the fifth time you don't answer the truth, but all the Spaniards are already realizing the reality and it's good that you too are beginning to know its consequences, because a government that is ruining Spain on a tax-based basis is a government that can't last another day. Leave as soon as possible, because Spain will thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u148	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u149	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that in your final sentence you have summed up the real interest of your intervention and your group in your presence in this Congress, which is no other, Mr Espinosa, than to overthrow the legitimately elected government in the ballot box. This is what you claim over and over again based on defamations, and infamies, lies, and superlative adjectives that lead to nothing. The reality is that for you if there was no taxation, better. That is the reality, Mr Espinosa. You do not defend taxation because you do not believe that there has to be equal opportunities for all citizens and therefore you only defend the interests of those who have or concentrate an important part of the capital. That's your model of society; that's the one you're preaching all over the place and that's the one you're hooking up to try to delegitimize politics, Mr Espinosa. The most serious thing you do is that with your lies, the ones you just said here... [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros speaks words that are not perceived]] I'm talking about me and I let him finish, even though I didn't share everything you said. I insist, with lies you can't get anywhere. What I am telling you is that this Government has a fiscal road map that is perfectly set out in component 28 of the Recovery Plan. That is, a group of experts is set up to orient, to move and to suggest to the Government how to produce the modernization of our tax system; modernization to advance in fiscal justice - sounds to you, Mr. Espinosa?-, progressive, equal opportunities and sufficient resources so that we can all basically... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u150	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, IN THE REPRESENTATION OF THE DEPUTY BAL FRANÇAIS, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF ARRANGEMENTS: ARE THE SUBJECTS OF TAXES AND PAYS THE ONLY PLAN PRESENTED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO COMPLETE WITH EUROPE? [[File number 180/00516]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u151	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, during this terrible COVID crisis, too many Spaniards have lost loved ones; they have lost jobs, businesses and savings. Families, self-employed people and SMEs can no longer wait and need help and reforms to get out of it. However, the Government's only recipe is a historical tax sham. My question is simple: do you intend to move forward with the massive tax and toll increase plan for all the Spaniards who have already sent to Brussels?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u153	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, I agree that SMEs, medium-sized enterprises, can no longer wait for government aid. The question is, for example, in a government in which you participate, such as the Government of Andalusia, why have it taken you more than ten days to sign the agreement providing for aid? When are you going to pull out the call in Andalusia? Because more than 1 billion people who are going to the productive fabric are still waiting for you to reach out to those who need it, sharing your speech that SMEs and small and medium-sized enterprises need it. Put on your batteries and bring that money to the entire productive fabric. Secondly, Your Honor, by mimetizing the speech just made by Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, the speech usually made by the People's Party, you will not find your political space. It is not a question of repeating; it is not a question of not having a criterion of its own. You, where you govern, in Europe, practice a higher fiscal pressure than this country does. Is Mr. Macron a person who turns France into a fiscal hell? Why aren't you consistent? Why don't you acquire your own identity? That will probably allow you, Your Honor, to be recognized by the citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u155	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u156	Mrs Montero, have you not understood that the rise in taxes upsets all Spaniards, votes for Citizens, votes for another party or yours, the Socialist Party? Haven't you noticed this yet? Don't deny the tax hike. Do you know why we found out about this sandstone in the back? So you send Brussels, because you don't have the decency to come here and face it. You, with the rise in taxes, always do the same; first you deny it and then, when you do, you justify it. First justification, cheap excuse, they say: No, it's that they're only going to tax the rich. Who are rich in Spain, those who have insurance, those who have a vehicle, those who buy food or medicine, those who use the highways and other roads of the State, to which you are going to climb the tolls? What's up, 47 million rich in Spain, Mrs. Montero? The second favorite excuse. No, it's just that Europe compels us. No, Europe does not force them to raise taxes. In fact, our partners are lowering taxes. I'm going to give you several examples. France, which you were telling me about, is going to make a 50 billion euro tax reduction. Italy will lower taxes on companies investing in new technologies. Germany has reduced VAT from 19 % to 16 %; and that of the hospitality - listen well - to 7 %. I can tell you about Portugal, Greece and Belgium. In short, the European countries, many governed by the Socialist Party, are lowering taxes; all but Spain. Recognize that you don't want or know how to manage, because you're going to go easy, which is to sand people's taxes. Instead of agreeing on future reforms with state parties, you raise taxes. Instead of fighting fraud and the submerged economy so that those who do not pay start paying, you raise taxes so that those who pay continue to pay more. Instead of squandering as with Plus Ultra, you raise taxes. Look, the tax hike is always bad news, but doing it from the most expensive government in history is a real indecency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u157	Madam Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. It seems a lie, Mrs. Arrimadas, that you speak of decency and do so with that relief as you have just done. I will only tell you that with whom you have agreed, with the People's Party, it has been the political formation that has produced the greatest rise in taxes in history. You say yes, but they're your partners. You agree with them, therefore, to what does the alliance with those who seem to be in the antipodes from where you reside come or why? You see, the fiscal pressure of this country is 7 points lower than that of the euro area countries as a whole. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García makes negative gestures]] Why do you say no, Mrs. Arrimadas, if those data are published and are official? It's not government data, it's international comparative data, and that's where we start. If you do not recognize reality, you will hardly be able to apply prescriptions that will serve the benefit of citizens. You use adjectives like hacking, sandblasting, even yesterday fiscal cruelty, when this government, and you will have seen it in the 2021 budget, has not touched the fiscal figures. Therefore, when you use all this expression, you are simply hiding your inability to...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u160	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent call by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress for the government to explain the tax measures, tax increases and/or cuts, which were sent to Brussels on 30 April. For your defence, Mrs. Spain Queen has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u161	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The government is not going to raise taxes to the middle class or the working class. Minister of Finance, April 2021. See: increase of the IRPF, property, companies, insurance, estates and donations, diesel, sugary drinks, plastics, Google rate, airline tickets, tolls, pension plans, joint taxation, registration and circulation, airport fees, Tobin rate, elimination of reduced VAT. I mean, this has gone from fiscal hell to a tax bust. Who's lying, Minister? I open quotes: This government has never said that it will raise taxes during the pandemic. Ten taxes have been raised this year. You and Mr Sánchez are the greatest exponent of this government of lies. Can you be more triler? It is that they hid the tax robbery until after the elections in Madrid because, if they explain it before, they do not vote for the PSOE or Gabilondo. What a disrespect for the Spaniards! Look, Spain is not only the only country that has raised taxes in the midst of the pandemic, but you have sent a document to Brussels that commits to raise the levy by 7% of GDP, i.e. 80 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen; 80 billion euros, massive rise in taxes. [[Shows a press clipping.-Applause]] And they say that fiscal pressure is below the European average. Minister, in Spain there is less to be collected because there is more unemployment and more economy submerged, but that does not mean that we pay less taxes. Talk about the tax effort, which takes into account per capita income, because we are the fourths in the ranking of the twenty-eight countries, the fourths that we pay the most taxes in Europe. And you say now that you want to bring the collection closer to Europe. Look, get closer to per capita income and employment, which we have twice as much unemployment and half the wages. Minister, expand the numbers of taxpayers by creating jobs and eliminating the submerged economy. Now few we pay a lot, we have to get many to pay little. I told you: increase the collection without raising taxes. All economic institutions advise not to raise taxes so as not to tarnish economic recovery, as France, Italy and Germany have done. The European Union does not require you to raise taxes, what it requires you to do is to square the accounts; and you in the Rebalancing Plan that you sent to Brussels states that Spain will have the largest deficit in the European Union, the largest, twice that of Portugal and four times what Germany and the Netherlands have. By the way, go ear-dropping from the AIReF, which says that Spain is the only one of the big economies that does not have a fiscal plan to contain the deficit and the debt. Minister, start by reducing inefficient public spending. I preach with the example that the Government has more numerous, with twenty-two ministries and with more advisers than ever before. The government of travel in Falcon and of the running tapes for ministers. How can an effort be required from the taxpayer if you do not adjust your belt? That is to say, you commit yourself with Brussels to raise taxes to all of us by EUR 80 billion, so that you can give it 70 billion, so that you can then distribute the 140 billion in an arbitrary and discretionary way, as you have done with Plus Ultra following the stellar of Isofoton in Andalusia; or as you also do with the magazine of Tezanos, the president of the CIS, who receives thousands of euros in grants, where he insults calling out taverns to the voters of Ayuso. [[Applauds]] I will tell you something, Minister: I am of cane and Berber, which is much healthier than the whorehouses and cocaine of Socialist EREs in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Let's go back to reducing public spending. According to the AIReF, there are billions of euros in grants every year without accountability. Check them out, ask your colleague Escriva that when he was president of the AIReF he made a plan to reduce unproductive spending by EUR 25 billion. Minister, what rationalizing is not to lower education and health. That's the excuse you put in not to make an adjustment plan. But let's look at your tax policy, which, in your opinion, is the taxes on the rich. Elimination of reduced rates of VAT, i.e. to raise bread, milk, eggs, fruit, vegetables, medicines, wheelchair for people with disabilities, cultural VAT... It is the most regressive thing there is: indirect taxes and raise the price of basic products. What is going to come up, bread, milk and eggs when there are two million Spaniards in the queues of hunger, minister? The bread, the milk and the eggs? [[Applauds]] This is indecent and immoral. And you're talking about tax justice? This government is chaos and has lost its course. He's told you all the way to the UGT. Start the unbridled, minister. And don't blame Europe, which has already lied to us with the mask VAT and the light VAT. It turns out that in Europe the VAT on masks had already been reduced and they have been reduced to the VAT on tourism, and here we have to increase the VAT on bread? It's your fault and it's not from Europe, Minister. They're gonna charge us for breathing. Tax relief to the car sector, tolls, increases in registration and circulation tax, increase in diesel. You disguise it as ecological fees; that is, you want to save the environment by ruining workers. They promised free highways in the campaign, that is, we passed free highways for everyone to have to pay tolls for simple roads. As Joaquín Leguina, a socialist, says, but of those who really want to throw him out, of course, Pedro Sánchez has lied, and those things are paid for. Even her former boss, Susana Díaz, says that tolls are a tax on workers, but, of course, you are no longer a Susanist. By the way, are you going to put the Seville-Cádiz toll back on, which cost you getting rid of it? Going to work without an official car, refueling diesel and going on a highway is rich? No, it will be rich to go with the official car to Galapagar chalet or to have companies interposed so as not to pay taxes, as did their fellow ministers. It is 15 million citizens who have one diesel vehicle and 9 out of 10 self-employed. Of course, they're all rich. Therefore, what they are going to destroy is the workers. We're on. Elimination of the reduction by joint taxation, which will mainly affect pensioners, families in which only one spouse works and separated mothers or fathers. Look, a pensioner who earns 1285 euros a month is going to raise taxes 1030 euros, i.e. more than 1000 euros of tax increase. This is a brutal attack on the pensioners, it is worse than the freezing of Zapatero, which was approved with Mr Sánchez's favorable vote! Are these the rich, the pensioners? Oh, it's a mistake, is it a mistake? But if you were already wearing it in your 2015 program, Reconciliation and Responsibility! Have you communicated that error to Brussels? Stop laughing at the Spaniards, and, as Mr Felipe González says, that he is a real socialist, do a reflection, because something is feeling, and what he is feeling is that just as they went free to vote for Ayuso, the Spaniards are going to come out in mass to drive them out of this government, although there are those in his government who still don't know, like Minister Yolanda Díaz, who says that the legislature is starting now. Yes, yes, let them tell the 100,000 companies that have had to close and the 100,000 family members killed by COVID! But, of course, what are we going to expect from a government that talks about taxes and 'taxes'. He says that joint taxation is eliminated because it discourages the employment participation of the second income earner, i.e. mainly women. Hey, do you think a woman isn't going to work to save herself 1100 euros on rent? But what a concept you have of women! Packet feminists! Madam Minister, this is an insult to the women of this country who cannot work for their disastrous management, which since the government of Sánchez there have been 400,000 more women standing in Spain and we are the second most unemployed women in Europe. [[applause]] Shall I tell you about the shoes? There are 7,000 jobs that are in the air, most women, for the side effects of the Google rate imposed unilaterally by you. Don't you see it, Minister? That start the ERE with more than 35000 layoffs in progress, almost 200,000 autonomous that can close if the aid ends, which, according to the Banco de España, the probability that a person in ERTE will return to work is less and less. As President Casado says, Spain will again create employment when Sánchez loses his job. With regard to the inheritance and donation tax, which is virtually non-existent in most countries, you say that you are going to harmonize it; hey, equal the low! Are you going to put the inheritance tax back in Andalusia, Galicia, Madrid, which is 99% better off? Tell the 8,300 Andalusian families who each year with you had to give up their inheritance, that step, those savings, what an injustice! By the way, I told him a few weeks ago: that he will pass into history because she is the minister who proposes to raise the inheritance tax in the year in which more than 100,000 Spaniards died by the COVID. In short, who are the rich?, those who have vehicle insurance, home insurance, those who drink sugary drinks, those who buy on the internet, pensioners, those who make joint taxation or those who buy bread, minister? On the other hand, 2020 budget: what will be collected in the high IRPF tranches, 144 million euros; what will be collected with sugary drinks, double, 340 million; and what will be collected with the insurance premium, triple,455. I mean, stop lying to the Spaniards. Every time you talk, the bread goes up, minister! They're going to sink into the middle and working classes! The Spanish Socialist Workers Party has fallen into the O of Workers. In addition, they give the tip to tourism with the rise of airport charges and a new tax on transport; increase of air tickets. This and tolls are loaded with tourism. Say it there, in my land, in Malaga, on the Costa del Sol, which have been without tourists and without help all year. Of course, this government hates tourism, as Minister Garzón says, which seems not to be from Malaga. And I'm done. Look at this government's résumé, it's bad. Spain closed the year 2020 with more deficit and rising unemployment than any other country, which has given the least support to the productive fabric, in three years a single budget invalidated by its erroneous forecasts, where GDP has fallen the most, 11%, almost twice the euro area, with debt in historical ceilings. According to the IMF, in 2022 we will be the country with the highest unemployment rate in the OECD and the European Union. If you add the biggest tax bust in democracy, you are encouraging a fiscal rebellion, because the Spaniards are not willing to pay for their waste. [[The Lord]] Your Honor, Spain does not want communism or sanchism, nor does it want any more lies or fiscal hacks, wants to live and work in freedom, and less bad that every day there is less time left for this government to lie, because the change is already here and has name and surname, it is called the People's Party and Pablo Casado. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u162	I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Finance. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Spain, your speech here this morning in the rostrum and the speech that we have heard from Mr Casado today also anticipate, ladies and gentlemen, that you will again commit a very frequent sin in politics by your formation, which is that of pride. You, because of the fact that you have achieved good results in Madrid - and we have recognized this - are already on the verge of believing, not only to say, but to believe that you have won an election in Spain. Do you know what I'm saying, Mrs. Spain? Do you remember, in 2012, the Government of Andalusia, when you split up the charges believing that you were going to win the Andalusian Junta, and finally re-governed the Socialist Party? It's going to happen to you guys exactly the same way. Do you believe that citizens would like to hear here in this rostrum, after some results in a particular community, the People's Party boast? Madam Spain, I do not know if you have been heard, you are assuming electoral results and you assume that the vote of the citizens is a vote that will allow you, as always, to come to the conclusion that you have been putting forward since this government took possession, because, Mrs Spain, you have always thought that power belongs to you, and every time the ballots tell you otherwise you feel that you have stolen power from you and do not recognize a legitimate government emanating from the ballot box. [[Applauds]] And that happens to you over and over again. Beware of pride, Mrs. Spain, you are a bad counselor. The citizens do not like that you predetermine or that you transfer the questions that are drawn from an autonomous election in which, by the way, Mrs Spain, Mr Casado has not presented himself, Mrs Ayuso has presented herself. Mr. Married got into the picture on the balcony and, do you know what the people who were gathered under the balcony said? He shouted and chanted: Help, Help, Help. [[Protests]] Make him look at it. Let him look at it, because those issues are, in the end, bad counselors. Your Honor, I am not going to discredit the political debate as you do here. In the last few weeks I have heard all kinds of adjectives about tax plans: axe, hell, cruelty - what Mr Floriano said yesterday -. Now I will tell you what I told Mr Floriano, who must not have spoken to him, because it was barely seven, eight or twelve hours ago that I also had a debate with the People's Party in the Senate. [[Mrs. Spain Queen: I don't care]] You don't care, but I don't, because I'm the same person you have to discuss with your parliamentary group. [[Protests]] I do not ask you when you are talking and I try to respect you in speaking. Learn to respect the word of the rest. Therefore, Your Honor, I am not going to use those ratings because, by being overstated and trying to hypertrophy the actions, they lose weight and value. You are no longer adjectives, you have all used them. Whatever the government does in fiscal matters, because, whatever we do, you are going to call it a hatchet, hell, cruelty and all the words that come to mind, because you are not interested in the substance of the matter. I don't know where you've read about the ascent of bread, milk. Explain it in the gallery. Where did you read that? It must be that you use as an Official State Gazette some media that you like what they say. Because, of course, you come here to the rostrum and you happily say that we are going to raise VAT to basic products, You just made it up, Your Honor. Do you know who raised VAT in this country? Do you know who put it up? The People's Party. And if not, ask some of you collectives, such as hairdressers. [[A Member of Parliament: Zapatero!]] No, Zapatero, no; it was raised by the People's Party, and all those who were the object of the VAT increase are remembered, but one has to be consistent and consistent with what he does. I will also tell you one thing, Mrs Spain, to get into the background of the inquiry. You have used language in terms of stigmatization of the feminist, which I have not understood: taxes-taxes. What does this mean, Miss Spain? No, no, what does that mean? Why do you have to ridicule the message? You say: how can you have the defachability to say that a tax benefit harms women's entry into the labour market? It's just that you don't read anything; it's just that the government doesn't say it, it's that the AIReF said it. [[Applauds]] The AIReF said so, Your Honor. And when the AIReF said it you didn't ridicule the AIReF report, you didn't say anything. When the AIReF analyzed the tax benefits, specifically that, it said that it was not a progressive benefit, that it was regressive and that it was detrimental to the incorporation of women. And now you put it in the mouth of the government itself, trying to discredit an agency like the AIReF, which is an agency that has demonstrated its solvency throughout this period. So it's not all right when you go up to the rostrum; you can't lie; you can't move arguments that don't correspond to reality. But, Your Honor, as I was telling you, yesterday I transferred Mr Floriano to the Senate what are the elements, the road map that this government has in fiscal matters. And I told him - and I will not repeat it again - on the basis of the Stability Programme and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan which were referred to Brussels on 30 April. Component 28, Your Honor; Component 27, tax fraud; Component 29, efficiency of public spending. That is, all the legs that make up what public finances are, the consolidation of public finances and the ability to deal with them. You were stunned at the beginning of this crisis, moving that the deficit figure to which this government was going to reach exceeds 14%. Madam Spain, the deficit figures have been below the government's forecast, well below the international agency's forecast, and you have said nothing. You have not moved or apologized for the alarms, for the elements that drive away investment, and that all you do is lower our country's reputation in the international context, which is what the People's Party is dedicated to when the Socialist Party when the left governments are in Moncloa. You take, through what you call a strategy of confusion, hidden information, media and complete lies, a deep disappointment, Mrs Spain, because you thought that in the Recovery Plan that was being sent to Brussels there were concrete fiscal measures that were going to be applied already during this exercise or during the coming exercise and yet you saw that disappointment, a product of - as always - aggravation, anticipatory of the black, of the grey, of the failure, in short, ladies and gentlemen, in what you always try to reveal, which you do not do when you govern. I will simply send you three ideas, Mrs Spain, to see if you can answer them in the rostrum as well. [[Mrs. Spain Queen makes negative gestures]] Ah, you don't answer in the gallery. Of course, you make an inquiry, but you don't contrast with politics. [[Protests by a Member of the European Parliament]] I'm not talking to you, Your Honor, and I hope you'll respect my order of speaking...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u164	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u165	... that always do the same when I speak in this rostrum, that there are spontaneouss who engage in interpellation from elsewhere in the Chamber. For consistency, because here any political group has to be coherent, if you say that the tax rebate produces an increase in collection, can you explain to me, Mrs Spain, why you in 2013 raised taxes up to fifty times, if you understood that in that fall in collection there would have to have been an increase? Why did they do it at the time? Why did Mr Montoro go up to this rostrum and say that it was imperative to raise taxes because there was a drop in collection, the result of the economic cycle? Or do you not now share what you did during Mr Rajoy's governments? You answer the question. What model of society does the People's Party seek? Of course, not a model of society where the public has a leading role. Of course, not a model of society where we all contribute so that we all receive according to our needs. You are moving away from practices that, sometimes, when you govern, practice them, do them, as is normal, like any government, and you are moving away from the intervention of the public following the path of those who are your referents, which is the political formation of VOX. You now deny the role of public health, of public education, of dependence. They are asking for more aid from companies, but when it comes to increasing collection directly they are opposed, and so, ladies and gentlemen, I could continue with each of the measures that you are criticising. You say: two more hard eggs, but then, when it comes to reality, you begin, without any argument, to attack this government in relation to what it means to build the welfare state. I would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that if, at the moment, it is a priority that our productive model, our productive fabric is capable of receiving aid that will allow companies not to be wound up or not to disappear, can you reply to me, Mrs Spain, why do you not launch the calls after the 7 billion that this Government has made available to the autonomous communities? Can you answer me what is the problem - you have spoken about Andalusia - that exists, for example, in Andalusia, so that this situation does not occur? Because, to God praying with the bat giving. I imagine, Mrs Spain, that you will not come to criticize what you do not do. I will sum it up very briefly: if you simply have the caution to read components 28, 27 and 29 you will have the map of what this government intends to do in the coming years in the area of taxation. But, I tell you one thing, Miss Spain, I am not the one who is moving that you are defending big incomes, big companies and big capitals. It's not me, Mrs. Spain. Have you seen the press today, the one you teach here in the gallery? Have you seen what Mr. Gurría said? OECD? Have you seen what Mr Gurría said about the difference in taxation between the territories of Spain? If you haven't seen him, Mrs. Spain, I advise you to look at him. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] I give the floor to Mrs. Spain Queen. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u167	Thank you, President. Minister, I ask and you answer, which is the question. Soon you will be the one to ask. Soon, but not yet. [[Applauds]] Are you going to tell me about the welfare state? [[Applauds]] In 2010, Zapatero made the biggest tax increase in this country, the biggest social cut in democracy and put the welfare state at risk. That is to say, that it left a country in ruins, with 90 billion euros of deficit, frozen pensions, lowered the salary of the civil servants by 5%, left in bankruptcy the Social Security, the drawers full of invoices and raised the VAT to 18% - you socialists -, the taxation of savings and the IRPF. [[Applauds]] And yet, such was the ruin that nothing more arrived in 2012 the People's Party had to raise taxes. But do you know what the difference is? I'll explain, you asked me. In 2010, Zapatero raised them after seven years of government to cover his own deficit. In 2012, the People's Party raised them to cover the deficit left by the socialists, and as soon as we could, in 2014, we dropped them to the rich. [[Applauds]] We lower the minimum IRPF rate from 24 to 19 %, which is not for the rich. And rents of less than 14,000 euros were exempt, which is not for the rich. And increased the collection. And you know why? Do you know what the difference is? That the Socialist Party is a machine of job destruction and has put three and a half million Spaniards out of work and we create three million jobs. Then, when a socialist tells me about the welfare state, I start to tremble, because the welfare state is no excuse to impoverish the Spaniards. Look, imagine a normal citizen who gets bread, milk, eggs, light, diesel, insurance, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, tolls, etc. Minister, is that the welfare state you want? If that's the state of discomfort! In the end you have raised the IRPF, companies, assets, insurance premium, everything. What about the bread? If you eliminate the reduced rates of VAT, then of course the bread goes up, Minister. But answer me something, because you haven't answered anything. Tell some truth, if possible, that she is the least credible and most contradictory spokesperson. [[Applauds]] The Spanish do not deserve a government that lies to them, Minister. We now have a new contradiction, he says that reforms will not be implemented in the year 2023 if the recovery is delayed. That the recovery is delayed? But when are we going to recover? The EU average recovers next year, in 2022, are we going to 2024, 2025? And now Mr Ábalos says that all this is being studied, that when there is a real proposal. But the tax recovery plan is approved by the Council of Ministers and you have sent it to Brussels. Isn't that real? Stop lying to the Spaniards, Minister. Stop lying to the Spaniards. And since he talks about Madrid, I imagine she will be grateful to Ayuso for having rid us all of Mr. Pablo Iglesias, who still remembers this Chamber his anger with him and his cries of 'don't be stubborn'. Inform yourself, because taxes and 'taxes', said your colleague Yolanda Díaz, and that you speak of pride is to make you look at it, minister. Finally, stop talking about Andalusia, which is no longer the advisor there, talk about Spain, who does not talk about taxes or about Spain. Minister, this is unsustainable. They have no credibility, their mistakes and contradictions persecute them. Stop the tax haven for the Spaniards, who are the fourths of Europe paying taxes; return VAT to the autonomous communities and municipalities, as the courts of justice have told you; make a payment plan, that the administrations owe 80 billion euros to the companies; and above all, stop insulting the Spaniards who do not think like you, who are more and more, tell your partner Carmen Calvo. Madam Minister, we have the biggest deficit and the biggest increase in unemployment in Europe, the biggest debt in history and the biggest fiscal harassment of democracy. Again the perfect storm, the pure Socialist Party. Zapatero ruined Spain and you are doing it again, but do not worry that for the third time we will bring this country out of the economic ruin in which the socialists always leave it. The People's Party will do it again and Pablo Casado, as we have done in many other places, at Malaga City Hall we did in 1995 and as we are doing at the Andalusian Council. I ask you for a favor: rigor and seriousness. You are the minister of Spain, although you have little time, because the government of lies has the days counted, minister. And as President Casado says, the Spaniards already know that we are changing the government or losing the country. Tictac, tictac, minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u168	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Finance has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Do you know one thing, Mrs. Spain? The only tictac that matters to this government is the ninety-eight days left for us to have group immunity. [[Applauds]] Look at you, the difference between your political formation and mine between you and us is that you are counting on simply thinking about election campaigns. We are always counting on thinking about health, listen to me, the health of citizens and economic recovery. We have no other interest than the general interest of the country. You are constantly counting votes. Stop counting votes, grab your shoulder, because a country never had a circumstance like this and never had a major opposition party no longer profiled, but directly tried to take advantage of the pandemic to wear down this government, using the pain and suffering of citizens to try to wear down this government. [[applause]] That's the tictac, Mrs. Spain, with which you can find me. The other tictac I don't know. The only truth you have said in the rostrum is that for you the welfare state is a state of discomfort. Right. That's the problem, and that's what sets us apart in our fiscal position. You don't believe in a strong welfare state, they say. Moreover, not only do they say so, but they practice it in taxation, ladies and gentlemen. They have recently done so in some autonomous community. They prefer a model that removes private insurance or private schools. That's the tax model you want. They want the middle class not to contribute with their taxation or taxes to universal systems, and they prefer to benefit from going to private schools or private insurance. That, Madam Spain, is your model of the welfare state, which in no way resembles the welfare state pursued by this progressive government. So, in fact, we have big differences in that. You talk about cuts. They're obsessed with cuts. [[A Member of the European Parliament: Yes]] Oh, yeah, I know some MP recognizes it. I know you're obsessed with cuts. Do you really believe, Mrs Spain, that it is time to ask the Autonomous Communities for a plan of cuts? Do you really think that this government should ask Madrid, Catalonia, Andalusia, Aragón and Castilla-La Mancha for a plan of cuts to eliminate health care providers and educational professionals to lower dependency, Mrs Spain? Is that what you intend and what you would do if you were in this government? This is what they practiced, of course, when they ruled, who had put their feet on the necks of the autonomous communities. [[Spain Queen shows a cut in the ABC newspaper, where it reads: 80 billion]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat to you again - I always say this - the biggest rise in the historical unemployment that has occurred in this country was caused by a government of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] You, who believe you are the champions - I don't know what - have made this country reach 27% unemployment, something that had never happened before. Look, Mrs. Spain, at the contradiction. He says: we were forced to raise taxes because at the time we had a state of public finances that did not allow or advised that a tax reduction could occur. And I say, if when you have a drop in tax collection, what about the Laffer curve, Mrs. Spain? Or is it that Laffer's curve works when you're in opposition and when you rule there's no Laffer's curve? When there's a drop in collection, they do want to raise taxes. And he's talking about VAT. The government of the People's Party - not Zapatero, the government of the People's Party - raised VAT to 21 % and I will remind you of a collective, Mr Spain, in case you don't remember, because then you say they dropped it. Tell the hairdressers. They raised VAT to 21% and did not lower it. [[Applauds]] Why are they lying in the rostrum? Simply because they have no arguments to put forward what they are proposing. [[Spain Queen again shows the cut of the ABC newspaper, where it is read: 80 billion]] The only thing I can tell you is that the defence of the usual, of the few, of the great incomes, of the great assets is not something that this government says, but something that at international level is saying all the international trends: the Monetary Fund, the OECD and the US Administration.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u170	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u171	Termination, Your Honor. [[Mr. Cabezón Casas starts hitting the seat repeatedly]] They are saying that the whole of the planet - not Spain, the whole of the planet - has to get a higher return from the tax side and some tax figures, but you don't care. The only thing that interests you, Your Honor, is what I said at the beginning, and that concludes. The only thing they want is to climb to the back of the health pandemic using the pain, the sacrifice of people to try to achieve electoral results. [[Applauds]] That's all you, Mrs. Spain, are after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Cabezón, it is repeated the beating in the seat on your part when some intervener, not of your ranks precisely, passes the time. We're not in a school yard, we're not in a school classroom so you can hit the desk, so please don't ever do it again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF SOCIAL RIGHTS AND AGENDA 2030 ON THE REGULATORY PLAN OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN ON ANIMAL WELFARE. [[File number 172/000104]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u173	Urgent inquiry by the Parliamentary Group Citizens to the Minister of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, on the regulatory plan of the Government of Spain on animal welfare. For your defense, Mr. Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, today I want to begin by showing all the recognition of my parliamentary group to Andrés Trapiello and my staff for so many hours of magnificent readings. Only those who have not read the weapons and the lyrics can see there revisionism. Here there are many who, if they can influence the past, will try to win the Civil War; Trapiello would try to avoid it. Thank you, Andrés, for your work. Minister, the reason for this is to know the government's intentions regarding animal welfare and protection, and I tell you why. There is a Directorate-General for Animal Rights, and I want to know what they have done to date. A whole general direction for a matter that we in Citizens consider very important, but that seems that instead of the welfare of animals has promoted the welfare of some other member of one of the parties that make up the government, which is of course the collective most benefited by the Executive, the members of the Socialist Party and the members of Podemos. Correct this inaction. However, I say to you, Mrs Belarus, that you and the Director-General for Animal Rights - with whom I have been able to speak for a while now outside - have our support for everything you want to make progress in this area. Moreover, I consider that the Director General of Animal Rights is a person, in addition to being friendly, capable. Have technical expertise and courage in dealing with these policies. I believe that if a new general direction is promoted, it is important that you do something, because if not, malicious speeches are made about the welfare and protection of animals, because it may seem like an empty general direction. I say to you why the concern of my parliamentary group: for now only a reform has been brought to Congress in the area of animal welfare and protection, and it is the change of the Civil Code so that they are no longer considered property, things. But that reform does not originate in the general direction, and I tell you why. Firstly, because it was brought by two parliamentary groups, yours and the socialist. But, secondly, and as more evidence, I say to you that the person who brought this reform to this Chamber for the first time, and who was unanimously approved, was Citizens. In fact, it was my first intervention in this rostrum. I would like to tell you, Minister, that nothing has been brought into this House from the government on this matter, and there are many pending and necessary reforms. In addition to the fact that pets cannot be taken or treated as luggage in the event of a traffic accident, for example, or that they may be part of the profit society in a separation or divorce, there are many things pending. By the way, that reform, which was again voted by a large majority in this House, was called for a turn against, called for VOX - which invited everyone to see the arguments they were defending -. And since VOX cannot participate today in this inquiry, I would like to invite the Member who exercised this turn against a debate between him and I - I throw the glove from here in a friendly way - because I believe that statements such as linking the mutilation of animals with the change of sex of people, something that was done in this rostrum, must be answered. I believe that this is an issue that must be answered, so, I repeat, he invited the Member of VOX, if he wishes, to have a debate between him and me. I return to the outstanding issues of animal protection and welfare. In addition to the Civil Code, Mrs. Belarus, there is the Penal Code. The paradigm of the ineffectiveness of our penal rule is when things like the one I'm going to tell you happen. In a supposed protector, in Torremolinos, who was in charge of collecting abandoned animals and charged for each received specimen, when filling their facilities and wanting to continue charging, animals were sacrificed to make room. As they wanted to save, they used insufficient euthanasia. They also saved the veterinarian, punctured the poison and allowed the animal to die for hours. The howlings and howlings were heard by the neighbors for hours, and that is why this situation was denounced. Helpful shouts were heard in extermination days. Seprona, always effective and one of the largest assets in the protection and defense of animals, identified 2183 cases in which this had been the case. To justify this sacrifice, veterinary documents were falsified. The person who did this was sentenced to three years and nine months in prison. The penalties were distributed as follows: for documentary falsehood and professional intrusiveness, two years and nine months; for killing and prolonging suffering unnecessarily, generating long agony, to 2183 animals, one year. I mean, if I hadn't falsified the paperwork, I wouldn't have even been in jail. I know that this does not seem normal to you, as it does not seem normal to anyone with a minimum of sensitivity in this House. There is a need for reform in criminal matters in this regard, and it is not just the Citizens' Parliamentary Group that is being told, said the judge who brought the case and asked the prosecution; they called for the creation of an aggravated subtype that increases the penalties for cases such as these. Because those who torture animals not only cause suffering and pain in other living beings, they not only make us suffer those who love animals; those who torture or abuse animals are also a danger to society. You have to have some naked wire in your head, in the machine that generates empathy, when you are able to abate a cat in brea and set it on fire. In the United States, you've got it all figured out. He named this case because whoever did this in New York State is in jail, and is going to spend a good season there, because they consider it dangerous, as the New York State justice sentence says. Who's capable of doing this kind of thing should go to jail. Another matter is animal abandonment. According to the Affinity Foundation, 306,000 dogs and cats were abandoned in 2019. That's the last data I've had access to, 306,000, and there's all kinds of casework. It is the one who gets out of the car in a gas station to go on vacation, throws the toy, the dog runs out, gets into the car and is able to accelerate as he sees through the rearview mirror the dog chases the car. I don't know what's going on in the head to someone who's capable of pressing the accelerator in these circumstances. Abandoned animals have very little chance of surviving - dogs less than cats -. They usually die run over, they are often caught for fighting and, above all, for testing other animals. Dogs sometimes walk miles and miles and arrive with the pads absolutely desolated. I know the case of a dog, of a Yorkshire, who was abandoned and who was able to walk for three days to return home, and when the owner - in this case she was the owner - saw that she had arrived at the house, pulled out the car, hit him and killed him. What do we do with people like that? What do we do? Because there was no legal matter for this person to pay dearly for the consequences. Moreover, they must not only step into prison, but must be disqualified for the possession of living beings, a proposal that will now have a greater impact. And it doesn't just happen with pets. Remember - I think many of you will remember - a video in which a guy was seen kicking a lame fox, who lacked a leg because he had stepped on a stake? It was recorded as he kicked the fox - he saw the fox flying and the guy laughing - and then, already with the fox on the floor, he trampled on him with the boot heel until he fractured his skull and killed him. Do you know how sorry this guy fell? None, because it was a wild animal and it is not within the criminal typology to be protected. Don't you think we have to change the rule? I believe it, and it can be done without touching activities like good hunting. It can be done - Germany has done - by determining well the criminal type. In Citizens we want those who are capable of doing things like this, in addition to stepping into jail, when they get out they can't have an animal in charge anymore, because we know that these behaviors don't usually be corrected, they don't usually change. In addition, there are many, and so has criminal science, the psychopaths who started rehearsing their careers - then they would be serial murders - with animals. There are many, the casuistic is immense; moreover, most of those who have practiced crime or serial murder started rehearsing with animals. I've heard you say you're working on an animal welfare and protection law. Citizens also brought this proposal here. I am already telling you that if the law affects these and other matters, it will have the support of my parliamentary group. I list the subjects that Citizens think they should contain. The first, a national bank of identification chips accessible to both veterinary professionals and the State Security Forces and Bodies, as well as shelters or protectors, both of public and private ownership. It makes no sense that, at a time when an animal is not in the same autonomous community in which it was identified, its chip is not practical and cannot be identified. The second, better controls and supervision of breeders and the origin of animals. Animal breeding isn't regulated, it's a hobby. Well, let's shape it up. The third, prevent exposure in windows to avoid impulse purchase. It is shown that the animal is bought at Christmas and abandoned in summer. As important as wanting and caring for an animal is knowing that one is not in a position to have it. A living being is a responsibility. The fourth, concrete measures against abandonment and promotion of adoption. I take the opportunity to ask from here those who intend to have an animal to pass through shelters and protectors, where there are many animals. They can improve the lives of many animals and their families. Many lives can be improved when you adopt an animal, and what about children growing up with a dog or a cat; they grow much happier and have a friend more in their environment. I have more proposals, but how is the time running out I'll tell you at the turn of the replica. Thank you very much, Minister, for your attention. I hope that you will take into account some of the proposals I have made to you here and that I will continue to do so at the turn of the reply. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u175	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u176	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to discuss in this House, in this Congress, an issue which is of enormous social importance and which is, however, permanently absent from the debates that are taking place here. I will try to explain with some degree of detail, as I have enough time to do so, the initiatives that from the Government of Spain and, specifically, from the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 we are putting in place to ensure animal welfare. I anticipate that much of the initiatives that you have put forward here are already collected. We are working on it, and I therefore believe that you will also like my speech. I would like to make a preliminary consideration and a reflection on this issue of animal welfare. I think he is going to share with me that Spanish society is far more advanced than public institutions have been in guaranteeing animal rights. We need to gather that social consensus on the need to care for and protect animals and to turn them into ambitious and courageous public policies as soon as possible to protect those rights. Until recently there was not an ambitious agenda, much less at the state level, to guarantee these rights, but the work we are doing from the ministry and, specifically, from the Directorate General for Animal Rights begins to put us on the right path for Spain to become a country at the forefront of guaranteeing animal rights. You set the example of that reform, of that proposed law, which was admitted here on April 20th, to amend the Civil Code once and for all and that animals cease to be considered things to become considered what they are, sentient beings, as everyone knows perfectly. But you know that we have been behind in Spain for decades with regard to other countries of the European Union. I will give you just a few examples: in Austria they have had this consideration since 1988 and, in France, since 1976, in part of their legislation. But, also at Community level, the consideration of animal sensitivities has been reflected in the European Union since the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997. However, I believe that, although we live in a society that is basically characterized by the fact that most citizens protect animal welfare, it is equally true that we continue to see with too much repetition deplorable, detestable and extremely worrying episodes, such as the case that emerged a few weeks ago in Madrid, that of the Vivotecnia laboratory, which, in fact, was a place to mistreat and rape animals, where they were beaten, despised, insulted, abused, and thus demonstrated that they had been collected over two years and that they showed that it was not an isolated case, that it was not a specific situation, but that it was part of the procedure. This is just the tip of the iceberg. We have known many other examples over the years, such as cases of abuse in slaughterhouses, of bleeding, where animals are beaten, where executions are carried out that do not even comply with the law, executions with stunningness. These are very serious situations that a democracy cannot tolerate. These issues are a real burden on our democratic quality. With this, what I want to tell you is that this minister is very aware of the enormous work that we have ahead of us. For this reason, this Executive has, for the first time in the history of recent democracy and the history of our country, a general direction dedicated specifically to guaranteeing the rights of animals. That we have an organic structure focused on promoting public policies that guarantee the rights of animals takes good account of the fact that we do not think that these are ancillary or second-class policies, but that they are central policies. I also believe that the fact that animal welfare competences fall within the remit of the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 is not an insignificant issue, but quite the contrary, as it demonstrates a very important interrelationship between the social agenda and the animal agenda, which is fundamental in a situation like that which we have experienced this year. The health crisis of COVID-19 has had a strongly negative impact on our economy, as we all know, and has also aggravated social problems that our country has been dragging for many decades. In these harsh contexts, the perfect landing path is created so that some speeches are spread that seek to question the opportunity to develop animalist policies, and this is what I want to question here today. Some argue that governments should not work to advance animal rights because, in some way, it would involve neglecting people's needs. I am quite clear on this point. This is not only not true, but I dare say that a government concerned with social policies and human beings is necessarily a government that is also more and better concerned about animal rights. And I say more. Nor does a government that does not care about human beings have any sensitivity to animal rights, as we have seen so many times in this country. Animals are part of our communities, our families; they are our companions and friends, the friends of our children and our daughters; they are also part of the natural environments where we develop our lives, and, of course, they are sentient beings and, as such, subjects of full right. But, in addition, their own well-being is often the condition of enabling human well-being, and good evidence of this is the management we have developed during the pandemic since this ministry. While this ministry coordinates the deployment of a social shield that has no precedent in our country's history, it also promoted actions aimed at protecting the rights of animals and the people who care and protect them. I'll give you some examples of what we've done during this pandemic year. First, only three days after the first state of alarm was declared, at the request of this ministry, an instruction was issued to establish the criteria for the care of domestic animals during confinement. This had to be done, which may seem common sense, which allowed, for example, that feline colonies could be fed, that dogs could be walked during the strictest confinement, as well as feeding and caring for animals that were on farms or in animal protection centres. We also manage the pet care plan for homeless people and develop - this is something I am particularly proud of - together with the Ministry of Equality the BioPet project to collect and welcome animals from women victims of male violence. More than nine hundred shelters throughout our country have provided support and care for pets of more than five hundred women victims of sexist violence who did not want to leave at home, where they were being victims of sexist violence, the animals with their abusers. [[Applauds]] That is what we have been doing since the Spanish Government. Subsequently, the animal care service has also been extended to those affected by COVID-19 with the aim that no animal, even during this difficult year, will be left in a position of helplessness because its caregiver was being cared for by the disease of COVID. Therefore, extensive care and care work has been carried out throughout the confinement and subsequent months, which has earned the general leadership not only the recognition of this Government but also a special mention and a medal of the National Union of Chiefs and Directors of the Local Police. So I want to congratulate our Director General, Sergio García Torres, here too. Similarly, despite facing a situation that was unprecedented and that we had to create mechanisms from scratch to move forward in the care of animals during the pandemic, we have been developing in parallel, without stopping at any time, the agenda for animal protection and welfare that we had planned when we began our walk in the Government, when we had not foreseen that there would be a pandemic. I'm deeply self-critical, Your Honor. I am sure we can do better, but I also recognize that the work we have done by the ministry staff has been commendable. I summarize some of the normative tasks - you asked me about them - that we are going to start up in a short time, because now it is starting to bear fruit the work of this whole year, which has been very intense. Firstly, we are working with the rest of the ministries on the cross-cutting incorporation of animal rights into all legislation adopted within the Government. Specifically, we are going to launch a real decree on slaughterhouse surveillance, with which we are working with the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, in order to establish video surveillance systems to put an end, once and for all, to the episodes of ill-treatment that I mentioned at the beginning of my intervention. Similarly, we have proposed to include in the next science law the obligation that these video surveillance systems are in all laboratories where they are experimented with animals. These are two measures, Your Honor, which will make decisive progress in the elimination of terrible cases, such as that of Vivotecnia and many others that have been known in our country. I would also like to dwell on a very important issue that you pointed out in your speech. We are working with the Ministry of Justice to address the issues of animal abuse and abandonment - you have explained it very well with very concrete and very vivid examples -. For example, I can tell you that we are already working on this reform of the Penal Code to extend protection beyond domestic animals and ensure the protection of all vertebrate animals, with a sanction that is fair in situations of abuse and abandonment. It cannot be that miserable situations or actions such as those you have reported or abandonment to your fate of thousands of animals in our country every year go unpunished or with a penalty that is absolutely ridiculous. I should like to mention that we have held more than five hundred meetings with professionals in the sector, with entities and with the field of animal protection to develop such important regulations, in which we are working and which are about to come out, as a real decree with a state system of animal protection records, that allows us, when an animal is abandoned or lost in an autonomous community other than that in which it is registered, that information is available to everyone and that animal is recovered as soon as possible. We are also pushing for a real decree of zoological nuclei - as you all know, zoological nuclei are those where a large number of pets live together -, which you also mentioned in your intervention. With this rule we will homogenise existing initiatives and strengthen control systems. One of the main developments, concerning the sale of animals over the Internet, will be that only those with a zoo license and also those who have passed all the relevant inspections will be able to go online. Finally, we are working on a real decree so that in all the autonomous communities the dogs of assistance have the same rights. This is fundamental. And he announced that, before the end of the year, we planned to bring the preliminary draft state animal protection law, which will finish consolidating this legal umbrella. Anyway, I think we're working on the right line. We have started from scratch, but we are moving forward decisively, and this marks a turning point in the history of our country, in democratic history...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u177	You must finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u178	Thank you, President, I'm done. This marks one before and one after, because more has been done this year for the guarantee of animal rights than everything that had been done at the regulatory level in our country's recent democratic history. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u179	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Belarus, many of the questions you have raised seem very interesting to us, and I will comment on some of them which have been more striking to us. But now I will end the proposals I wanted to make to you earlier. To the proposals I made in my previous speech, I would like to add the fact that the law prohibits the slaughter of abandoned animals that are healthy, except for situations of emergency or danger. This is possible, it is feasible, because it has been done by governments that have relied on citizens, especially municipal governments. I can tell you about the municipal government of Malaga, whose zoo no longer makes sacrifices of healthy animals. There are those who said it was impossible, and I can assure you that if you get on, you can get on. On the other hand, although this is already contained in an international treaty, it would be no more if Spanish legislation prohibited the mutilation of animals for aesthetic reasons. This is another issue that is being made, because it makes no more sense than aesthetics. We also propose that the gift of animals be prohibited as a reward or reward, so that they do not fall into the hands of those who do not want to take care of them or those who do not want to have an animal. We also raise a register of offenders, as we have already said. And I'm making you two last proposals. In public invitations to tender for the collection or shelter of animals, proposals containing activities promoting adoption or training in the care and welfare of animals shall be rated favourably. That it can be rated in a favorable way in the contests. Finally - here in the room we have great lawyers from various backgrounds - I would also open the administrative route. You know that the judge often applies the principle of minimum intervention of criminal law, which on certain occasions has some logic. The Law on Citizen Security, for example, could be established as a serious offence, with a fine of up to 30,000 euros, which could be tortured, for example, by a street cat. These cases, metropolitans many of them, could have a good umbrella, good coverage and a good ability to pursue them also by opening the administrative route, which we find interesting. I absolutely agree with you that the Spanish, as in so many other issues, have gone ahead of their political class in these matters. The consideration of sensitive beings now contained in the Civil Code will also enable judges to open the interpretation of sentences and to deploy greater protection, due to this legal recognition that previously did not exist. This is very good; let's see if we can speed up this legal reform. The protection of animals has two different aspects, that of those who believe in it and that of those who do not. For those who believe in it, the origin of such protection is the capacity of empathy of the human being - we are the only species capable of understanding that another species suffers - from which the moral obligation to avoid that suffering derives. But those who do not believe that there is a need to protect animals - everyone does not have to believe the same thing - who think about the number of citizens who suffer when they see an animal suffer; it is also a legal good to protect. The protection of wild vertebrates is very interesting. I see that they go in the direction of the Germans, for example, so that neither can there be absurd circumstances, such as someone being prosecuted by an invertebrate; the door could be opened in that sense. On the other hand, I would like to congratulate you on your actions during the pandemic. I have animals and I know a lot of people who have animals and protectors, and it is true that good work was done in that area. When things get better, I like to say it. Finally, I have seen that they have a proposal to rethink the possession of potentially dangerous dogs, to move away from the race and to go to the animal's behavioral characteristics. I think it's another interesting way. I'd like you to tell me something else about this. I believe that it is a good thing, and I am already advancing my group's support for all the issues they bring in this area, if they are in line with what has been announced to us and what I have proposed to you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Belarus. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u181	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Social Rights and Agenda 2030 has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u182	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am afraid that this debate is not going to come out on any television, because when the tone is constructive - in this House we also know how to do things right and we know how to discuss things positively - it doesn't come out anywhere. Thank you very much for your tone, for your actions and for the initiatives you have put forward, because I believe that we are certainly aligned in what needs to be done, and there is much to be done. As you speak, I would like to use it as a pedagogy, because I believe it is important to convey to all public institutions that all Spanish public institutions, both the municipalities and the autonomous communities and the central government, have an obligation to protect the rights of animals. I do not think there are two different positions, those who believe that animals should be protected and those who do not. I believe that there is democracy, that there are rights, that the bulk of the Spanish population and of the citizens in our country feel sorry for the suffering of animals and does not want that to be the way. And I think there is a reactionary reduction that does not agree with this approach. I answer some of the questions I raised. Indeed, we also think that two of the key measures that have to be included in the preliminary draft of the state animal protection law, which will be ready-to-hope - before the end of the year, as I announced, must, without any doubt, include responsible animal ownership, as you propose, and, of course, the zero sacrifice, which is already being promoted in many autonomous communities and which now has to be recognized and collected at state level. I share with you that this reform of the Criminal Code needs to be carried out as soon as possible. I will also anticipate some of the issues that we believe should include the reform of the Criminal Code, for example, from a maximum of eighteen months to a maximum of three years. We think that the disqualification that is now around two years old has to be updated, because people who abuse animals cannot exercise at least eight years of a profession related to animals, neither possession nor coexistence, which must also be included in the reform of the law. With regard to animal abandonment penalties, it cannot be that it has virtually no consequences. We think he has to have a sentence of at least six months and also disqualification, with a maximum of three years. There will be a register of disqualified persons, which will be included in this royal decree, as I mentioned a moment ago. We are going to give the judges tools that allow us, on the one hand, the precautionary confiscation, so that we do not see again cases like that of Vivotecnia, where it was seen that animals were being mistreated and there they had to follow for a long time, and on the other hand, the definitive confiscation when it is believed that an offence of mistreatment or animal abandonment has been committed. All this will be accompanied by the impossibility of living with animals. Even if you are not the legal guardian of that animal, if someone has committed a penalty or an animal abandonment offence, we want that person not to be able to live with animals either. I think these are matters of common sense. In addition to all the issues raised by the Royal Decree on the Registration of Animal Protection, slaughterhouses, zoos, care dogs, the most important thing is that this Government should promote a cultural change that seeks to align itself in public policies with what is already a majority consensus in our society and that animals must be protected. Indeed, as you said, most people in our country are aware that animals suffer, are afraid and are content and precisely, because they are sentient beings, they have to have their rights guaranteed. The Government of Spain is working on this. As you know, my hand is stretched out and the doors of this ministry are open so that we can all work together in this line. I am grateful to you that, on a day like today, you have given me the opportunity to explain to me what the regulatory plan for animal rights is. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u183	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO RETURN THE CREDITITY OF THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. [[File number 172/000105]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u184	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the steps the Government will take to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs. Olona Choclán has the floor for her defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u185	With venial, Mr. President. Fernando Grande-Marlaska, today he appears before this House to be accountable to the Spanish people and I, as spokesman for the VOX Parliamentary Group, will be the one who is making the accusation. The charges against you are extremely serious. As Minister of the Interior, it has been a key element in the implementation of a plan that clearly responds to the normative concept of political violence both in its purpose and in its results. There is a political intention and objectives, political damage is caused and, after the violence, a claim to reform, change and revolution is hidden. Violence is simply the instrument at the service of a few purposes, in this case, to bring about a political and social change that would allow the left forces to take over the Government of the Community of Madrid. The instrument? Political violence against VOX by the same Government of Spain Since 1936, no such serious accusation was heard from the speakers' rostrum of this Congress. [[Applauds]] But what is serious is not the accusation, what is serious are the facts that sustain it, and for this we will proceed to the objective examination of the facts. [[The lady]] Done first. On 7 April VOX convened the official nomination ceremony for Madrid's autonomous elections on 4 May. The chosen place was Vallecas, the square of the Constitution, a district where our formation obtained more than 13,000 votes, more than 12% of the votes cast. The afternoon before the celebration of the event, Podemos, party of the Spanish government in coalition, made a public appeal to boycott the event, concretely through one of its founders, Mr. Juan Carlos Monedero, who encouraged the hordes of the extreme left to boycott the event in the following terms: 'Vallekas does not have to give him the photo that the fascists are looking for today. Let the bells repeat, let the windows sound antifascist songs, let there be no one listening to the speech of hatred. And tomorrow we're all going to disinfect the floor with bleach.' To that'repeat the bells', euphemistic expression to refer to the boycott of the act through the exercise of physical violence, followed several calls from extreme left and anti-system groups, including Vallekas Antifa, to concentrate on the same day, at the same time and in the same place where VOX had legitimately called its act of pre-campaign. The motto: 'Neither in the polls nor in the streets. Out of our neighborhoods fascists!' But the relevant fact, Minister of the Interior, for the purposes of interest, took place when the Bukaneros, the ultras fans of the Vallecano Ray, publicly joined the mobilization called by Podemos: 'In Vallekas they will not pass, they will not pass. [[shows a photograph]] Let's show the neighborhood is ours. Let there be no room for hate speech.' The Bukaneros, a minister, are a radical group with arrests for injury, sexual assault, robbery, attempted murder. And you knew that, because the information service - and this is what has not gone beyond to date - of the National Police Corps issued a report detailing the high level of risk that was going to occur in the act called by VOX. Why don't I lie, Minister? Precisely why they set up a Cerco, an Operational Coordination Centre, something that is done only - as you know - in situations of extreme gravity, of extreme risk, such as the holding of some football game. That is why, on 7 April, the chief of police of Madrid interrupted and returned from his vacation to be present that day in the Cecor and that is why he was flying over the square of the Constitution a helicopter that he was doing was to send real-time images to the Cecor during the celebration of the event. I repeat, Minister, what am I not lying about? They sent us to a mousetrap, helpless; they allowed us to access children, women, the elderly, men, a square where we were surrounded by street terrorists from the far left, at a distance of only eighteen steps. The act resulted in thirty-five wounded, of these two audience assistants with an open head, a deputy of VOX transferred to the hospital and twenty-one wounded officers who did not even allow the Samur to attend to them on the site in case it could be understood as a provocation. We were looking for a dead man, a minister, a dead man. And the integrity of our agents didn't matter at all. Second relevant fact. [[Show a picture]] The Government of Spain justified the violence we suffered, because it was precisely the Government itself that was exercising political violence against VOX. This was stated the same night - a clear justification - by both the Minister for Equality and the Minister for Social Rights. From the Council of Ministers violence against VOX was instigated, from the Council of Ministers - through you - violence against VOX was allowed and from the Council of Ministers violence against VOX was justified and VOX became guilty of the violence suffered. 'You went to Vallecas to provoke', this is the literal tenor of the words spoken by the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, from this very rostrum of speakers on 14 April. And you smiled while my president was exhibiting in this House one of the cobblestones that threw us. We were victims of the violence instigated, allowed and justified by the Government of Spain, but you made us guilty to public opinion because that was the real objective of the political violence that was being exercised towards us. Hence the classification of fascists, which was only valid to them at the beginning of the campaign, then it must have seemed little to them and they ended up calling us Nazis directly, Nazis with an open face. Against bodies violence and against souls lies. Of course what you did is apply the traditional Leninist maxim, because it's all invented. Minister, do you recognize this sign? [[shows a poster]] The motto: 'Votes against bullets'. It is the campaign that Podemos undertook After that, casually in the campaign equator, On April 22, the leader of Podemos made public that both you and the director general of the Civil Guard and Mr. Iglesias himself had received letters with bullets cartridges inside. Allow me to show you something before you continue, and I beg you to look at it carefully. [[Show a picture]] Look, this is Mr. Maduro, Venezuelan dictator and one of the references of Mr. Pablo Iglesias. The news is from 2018, on the occasion of the presidential elections held in Venezuela Can you read what is the motto used by Mr Maduro to boycott elections and exercise political violence against the opposition?: 'Venezolano, you decide: Votes or bullets - votes or bullets -, peace or violence'. But let's go back to the cards and the bullets. They purposely used the letters received casually in the campaign equator to justify and intensify their violence against our formation. Without any kind of evidence they lied and openly accused us of being VOX the ones responsible for sending those letters with bullets inside. And they got what they wanted with that political violence they were doing against us because they managed to put the campaign at the exact point they wanted. We move from 'Socialism or freedom' to 'Fascism or democracy'. It was then that Mrs Lastra, spokesman for the Socialist Group, came to have you and the director general of the Civil Guard walking through the campaign to sell the poor victims of fascist threats; an entire interior minister and an entire director general of the Civil Guard, the first time in the history of democracy. These letters were followed by another letter, as you well know, on 26 April, this time addressed to the Minister of Industry, Mrs Reyes Maroto. On this occasion there were no bullets, but a knife supposedly bloody. Mrs. Lastra accused VOX of being responsible for this new threat. The Minister of Industry herself accused VOX of being responsible for this threat. When only hours later the National Police identified the complainant, a person with mental problems, because he had placed his personal identity data in the return, what did this Government do? He maintained the farce they were following and their ballistic assembly because the important thing was to move public opinion that VOX was a threat to democracy. Fourth relevant fact: filtration has arrived. Of the serious events that took place in Vallecas on 7 April, we had not had any information, except that published on 15 April, where the arrest of thirteen persons by the National Police was reported. Nothing more was said, and you continued with the story that VOX was the threat to democracy, because where it was going, it was going to provoke, causing chrispation and acts of violence. To that date journalist José María Olmo, in El Confidencial, published an exclusive that blew up that farce they had kept throughout the campaign. On 15 April, the police arrested two persons who were part of Mr. Iglesias' own personal security; two false escorts, because they were not private security agents. One of them was a member of Bukaneros and brother of the leader of the extreme left radical group, whom you know very well, the Pirracas, because we have seen him assiduously at the door of Mr. Iglesias' house, giving instructions to the Civil Guard on security matters. The farce that they had mounted was blown up, and it was discovered that the Minister of the Interior had been lying knowingly and silently for fifteen days, so that his ballistic assembly would not fall. And only thanks to a leak did the Spaniards know the truth. A truth that VOX always knew because against bodies, violence and against souls, lies. I confess that the only thing we have not been clear about is how far they were willing to go with their political violence, because the facts we have experienced in Spain in recent weeks have been the most serious in our democracy and, unfortunately, they are similar to a very black stage in our history. With a very black stage. The President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, said on 25 April: VOX has crossed a line and will be the last one to cross. That day Sánchez already knew through him, from at least ten days before, that he had been the personal security of the leader of Podemos, the executing arm of the political violence driven by the government against our formation. The threats of a government president to the opposition and the involvement of escorts in the dirty work of physical violence reminded me, and I searched in the Diary of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies and arrived at the Plenary on 16 June 1936, more than eighty years ago. [[Show a document]] On that day, a GNP was being debated in this House and the Government was being asked to take the necessary steps to put an end to Spain's state of subversion. At that time there was greater respect for this House and various members of the Government of the People's Front of the Second Republic were present during the debate. On that date, Calvo Sotelo, then a deputy and also a state lawyer, delivered his last speech, a speech in which, in the face of the threats made in that same session by who was the president of the Council of Ministers, he replied: 'I say what Santo Domingo de Silos replied to a Spanish king: 'Lord, life can take me away, but no longer can you.' And it is preferable to die with glory than to live with vilipendium.' At the end of her speech, Dolores Ibarruri, the Passionary, a communist deputy, told Calvo Sotelo: This is your last speech. And just a few days later, who were the bodyguards of socialist leader Indalecio Prieto, he was shot in the head. Tell me, Minister Marlaska, how far are you willing to go with your political violence against VOX? What is the last line we have crossed? So far the charges, so far the objective facts. Now you have the floor, answer to the Spanish people, but remember: history is watching you. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Olona, I had prepared, as I used to do, a debate in which I took the literality of your initiative, of your inquiry - I open quotation marks -'measures to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior - I close quotation marks'. And in that regard, I worked on the possibility of establishing a dialogue on the work we are doing to modernize security policy in this country. But after listening to you one more week-this time you've touched VOX, you've touched you, Mrs. Olona-, you're going to let me tell you enough already. After listening to her, I say to her: here we do not come to do science fiction. Let us leave the past, it has only failed to exalt the coup d'état a few days after those facts that you have dealt with. Because Your Honor, in this interpellation - which I am sure will become at the same time the number fifteen in which you, the VOX, Popular and Citizen groups, ask for my reprobation - you all return again to the insult about what I am, who I am, what I represent and what we do, what I do in the Ministry of the Interior. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, about whom I am I have to tell you that in remarks, abuses, hatred or dehumanization it is obviously you - and in view of the history to which I have referred - who are amateurs and do not give me any fear, Mrs Olona, since unfortunately, because of my professional and personal career - which you like to talk about - I have suffered on various occasions harassment and, of course, at greater risk than you can foresee. So expressions like those that you use - and in particular you, Mrs. Olona - towards me as unworthy, criminal, criminal, person with deep traumas - one day you will explain it to me - obviously do not deserve five more seconds, because above all they define it to you. It defines and perfectly portrays each and every one of you. [[Rumors]] But what I will not tolerate, and I say so, is that you attack neither what I represent nor slander what I do, because you have a problem with what you represented, with what I represent, yes, and with what the 120 seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group represent. [[Applauds]] Even according to, as we have seen in recent days, what is represented by the spokesman, Mrs Lastra, whom I would like to acknowledge her career in defending the rights, social justice and well-being of people. [[Applauds]] They have a problem with what the 35 seats of the United Nations Parliamentary Group represent. You have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, with what this government represents. They therefore have a problem with the Constitution. That's enough, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, that's enough. This government has the constitutional legitimacy that gave it a motion of censure in 2018, has the democratic legitimacy of a ballot box won on April 28 and November 10, 2019 and has the parliamentary legitimacy that these seats give it. For these reasons, I'm going to ask you something that should be very simple. I do not expect you to support our policies or to share our measures, but I demand that you at least respect us as people, as parties and institutions and respect history - which you have not done properly today -. I ask you to abide by the results of the ballot boxes that cost you so much, that it is already good to come to this House to sow insidiousness about the electoral processes, and you carry a few. Yes, Mrs. Olona, that's all right. Madam President, the VOX Parliamentary Group, the People's Group and what is left of Citizens, in addition to being pointed out for what I am and attacking what this government represents, do something worse: slander. Yes, yes, they slander the work of the Ministry of the Interior and its 170,000 public employees. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I know very well that the campaigns of contempt and warning, the fifteen reprobations that they lose or the complaints that do not end anywhere, have one explanation, only one. Me and the Ministry of the Interior team are suffering the consequences of regaining the dignity of the Ministry of the Interior. These are the consequences of reversing the years of cuts, the professional abuse and abandonment of the Police, the Civil Guard, the General Directorate of Traffic, Prison Institutions and Civil Protection. And we are reversing it with more places, better working and remunerative conditions and better material means. It is the consequences, Your Honor, of saying enough to the partisan use of the Ministry of the Interior, as I said this morning, of the policy of making and filtering reports for political and tailor-made purposes or to have zero tolerance - yes, zero tolerance - when a leak puts at risk the fundamental rights of any defendant: the principle of equality and the principle of presumption of innocence, as I also recalled this morning. Your Honor, it is the consequences of having a ministerial team made up of professional people, people - yes, they are - brave. Brave, Your Honor. She has mentioned to the director of the Civil Guard, Maria Gámez, the first woman who heads the Civil Guard, whom you - yes, you - lack respect by lying about what she says, according to article 3 of Law 29/2014, of the Civil Guard Staff Regime - I open quotes -: 'The Spaniards are civil guards linked to the corps of the Civil Guard for a relationship of professional services of a permanent nature as members of the Forces and State Security Bodies and that by the military nature of the institute in which they are integrated are military career of the Civil Guard - close quotes -'. Brave, yes, something that distinguishes us from you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The VOX Parliamentary Group is asking me about a very simple question: what measures will it take to restore the credibility of the Ministry of the Interior? To restore credibility, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, none. The 170,000 employees of this ministry - one in three public employees of the General Administration of the State -, the State Security Forces and Bodies, Prison Institutions, the General Directorate of Traffic or the National Civil Protection System are institutions valued and loved by citizens and do not need any complementary credibility. What this ministry needed in its governing structures and in its political priorities was to recover - to see if it sounds like anything - decency. It needed to eradicate conduct incompatible with a full democracy that deserved parliamentary approvals - ladies and gentlemen, they did prosper - and two commissions of inquiry. That's what we've been doing since June 2018. That is why, being brave, since that same year both my team and I have been suffering from these kinds of campaigns and signals by the parliamentary groups of the People's Party and VOX. We're not going to bend, ladies and gentlemen, you know it and you're watching it. And we will not do so because we have very clear priorities, as we have always had: first, to regain the dignity of the Ministry of the Interior, and second, to modernize security as a great public service that makes ours a safe environment in which we can fully enjoy our rights and freedoms. We will discuss with you alternatives, of course we will confront models and ideas and we will do so from respect, that of that we do know, and from the conviction - I ask you to write it down, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Olona - that your alternatives, your contributions and even your criticisms are based on the search for what is best for our society. I'm closing up. We will tell you again enough already when you cross the red line; yes, Mrs Olona, yes, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the red line of personal notice, the questioning of the constitutional framework or sow the slightest doubt about the conduct of the 170,000 public employees of this ministry. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u189	With all due respect, Madam President. Minister, the inquiry asked only one specific question: why did he hide for ten days that those who kicked our National Police Corps agents on April 7 in Vallecas are part of the private security of PabloIglesias? He hasn't answered. He has been talking for fifteen minutes about issues that have nothing to do with the subject, filling this Chamber with lies, as we are used to, and he has not answered. Answer it, minister. Why did he shut up? Why did you remain silent if you at least since April 15 knew it was Mr. Iglesias' private security that had kicked our IPU agents? As you have not answered me, I will have to make use of the answers that you have given to my colleague from the People's Party, Mrs Vázquez, when you asked her about this question during the control questions to the Government of Spain. In order to justify his silence, he has appealed that in all detentions it is the judicial authority that decides and that judicial secrecy must be maintained, and he has also appealed to the data protection regulations and to the presumption of innocence. These are the reasons why you justify keeping silent, manipulating public opinion, this very relevant information. You despise us completely, Minister, you despise these Members, representatives of the people; you despise us and insult our intelligence. There are countless occasions when the Ministry of the Interior itself has reported police arrests, whether or not they originate in a court order. Minister, in order to affect you personally, I am going to focus on one single case of the many existing ones. In April 2020, you publicly, in an interview at the SER Chain, accused a man falsely of murder; you broke all his fundamental rights. A whole Minister of the Interior. The events had occurred the previous morning in Valladolid, when a woman rushed out the window of her home, and you accused her husband of her death. Hours after being arrested this morning, the case was filed judicially because the witnesses showed that what the man was doing in Valladolid was trying to save his wife's life - he was trying to take it away - by holding her in his arms. But he escaped; he lost his wife, who committed suicide. And you had accused him of murder; an entire interior minister. What happens, that when the Government in coalition is no longer to be protected, there is no longer a presumption of innocence, there is no longer a judicial mandate, there is no longer a duty of secrecy, there is no longer any protection of personal data? Because you publicly pointed out an innocent man, pointed him out in front of Spanish society, pointed him out in front of his environment and made him guilty. [[Applauds]] What is more, it is that the personal indignity of Colonel Perez de los Cobos for refusing to commit a crime, which is not mine, is still resounding in this Chamber. He is now a member of the National Court. Well, you're going to allow me to reveal other information, Minister. The judicial authority was not so much when the chain of command, on the night of the cars, when the director informed the colonel of her cessation, brought him to the attention of the investigating judge and the next day sent a personal notification to the Secretary of State for Security, which you ignored because it was necessary to maintain the cessation of a public servant who had refused to commit a crime. Listen to me carefully: Thank you again for giving us an example of courage, a sense of state and for performing your functions with that dignity and prudence that characterizes you. Always defending Spain and the Civil Guard above all else. I can't be more proud of the father I have and his impeccable career. I wish they were braver like you. Sometimes there are dismissals that are medals of honor; it is your case, that you cease because you do not want to commit an illegality. I know that you already knew the content of this letter that Colonel Pérez de los Cobos' daughter made public on her social networks, but today she wanted to have the personal pleasure of reproducing it in her presence, looking at it in her face. From here our sense of honour to all public servants, and particularly to those whom you have purged in an unworthy manner. Minister, your sentence is handed down, it has been handed down by the Spanish people and I assure you that it is condemnatory. 'No shame or dignity', so will the tattoo that the popular will record on fire on his memory, perpetually. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.-Pause]] To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for a very predictable first intervention, as you have seen from my reply, and for a second really, listen to me - you like to address me personally -, regrettably, Mrs Olona; regrettably, very much in line with the type of policy your parliamentary group is pursuing. I start as it ended, let's not be fooled, what is happening to us is the consequence that on my team we are having the value - yes, the value - of making certain decisions. This Ministry of the Interior has a strong commitment to the recovery of the public value of security. For that reason, in three years, there will be more places of State Security Forces and Bodies, Prison Institutions, General Directorate of Traffic - that is dignity, gentlemen, that is dignity - better working conditions, decent remuneration policies... Because you have had a lot of words, which is what goes for you, with equality, but it has been this government that has increased the salary of the State Security Forces and Bodies by more than 20%, the third section and worthy means and infrastructures have been carried out. Secondly, this Ministry of the Interior has a commitment to regain decency and exemplaryness, so zero tolerance to the leaks and it's over, it's over! - as they continue to do here - the partisan use of the means and personnel of the Ministry of the Interior to conduct custom investigations. It's over! Finally, this Ministry of the Interior has a strong commitment to making Spain a safe environment, an ecosystem of well-being where to exercise our rights and freedoms, everyone, everyone! To this end, we are reversing the rules that surround the full exercise of fundamental rights. We have in the fight against domination and hatred one of our vectors of action. Mrs. Olona, you like the pictures, I know you don't like this one. [[Show a picture of Mrs. Olona Choclán in front of the statue of Largo Caballero]] We don't like hate, we don't like hate, Mrs. Olona, we don't like hate! Look at the picture, you look at it too. [[Applauds]] In short, we are devoting resources and resources to protecting our freedoms, not to monitoring political opponents. I'm done, Madam President. The truth, ladies and gentlemen of VOX - and indeed of the People's Party - is that there is time in this kind of debate. The noise you practice to me does not intimidate me because, I repeat, you believe that you are frightened by expressions such as those I have pointed out when the reality is that you do not frighten us, nor embarrass us, nor know what. Your practices of hatred, of pointing to my person, my team and the Government, to those who do not think like you, hide three things: firstly, a problem - I have already told you - with the Constitution, not with us but with the Constitution and with the institutions; a contempt for exemplary public servants, and above all, think about it, you are incapable without anything to contribute, yes, incapable without anything to contribute to the debate in this country or to improve people's lives. I'm on my way, President. Very well you have to be doing this government and this ministerial team if you are not able to criticize anything beyond ceasing free designation and the rumors that you make up yourself. Science Fiction. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, I am now speaking to you not as a minister, but as a citizen, and I believe that I convey the feeling of those who follow these debates, who also reminded Minister Belarus in the previous inquiry, and which is obviously what this is about. It is enough of this kind of policy, it is enough of hatred and pointering, it is enough of making public debate toxic. Dedicate your time and efforts to work for the well-being of our compatriots, for which we are sitting here. Here we are for that. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. [[A cleaning service worker disinfects the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u193	We continue with the motion, as a result of urgent questioning, of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the tax increases it intends to carry out and its position on the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities. For the purpose of defending the motion and the amendment tabled, Mr Píriz Maya has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] What I can guarantee is this: we are not going to raise taxes to the middle and working class. Pedro Sánchez. I will tell you very clearly, this government is not going to raise taxes either to the middle class or to the working class. Maria Jesús Montero, Minister of Finance. Hey, you guys don't tell the truth or the doctor. [[Shows a photocopy of a cover of the ABC newspaper on which it puts: Massive tax hike without lowering public spending]] These days in our country we are witnessing a genuine trial. Actually, we have attended several, but some have come out well heated. On this occasion, I am referring to the anger with the middle classes of this left-wing and far-left government; an unprecedented fiscal anger, as had not been seen in the history of our country, and which wants to lead to the extraction of the Spaniards up to 80 billion euros in the coming years. After the elections in Madrid, we learned of their true plans, those which, black on white, sent to Brussels and which hid until the appointment with the ballot boxes of the Madriders, although I am very afraid that they did not deceive them. And these plans bring with them an endless battery of tax increases for all Spaniards, especially for those with lower incomes. While the rest of the countries in our environment, with governments of all signs, are lowering taxes, our country, with a deficit of more than 10%, almost 11%, the structural half, and a public debt of more than 120 %, has sent a reform plan to Brussels that is a real blow to the Spanish economies. While everyone points to an exit from the crisis by reducing unproductive spending and lowering taxes, here, with the socialist and communist government, he chooses only to confiscate up to 80 billion euros from the pockets of the Spanish, forgetting that Spain has a problem of unemployment, smaller companies and more submerged economy. If the Government continues to plunder families and companies with confiscation taxes none of this will improve. As much as taxes go up, they will not be able to cover the 2020 deficit, not even the nearly €36 billion in structural deficit. Study spending and optimize before presenting this hatchet to the Spaniards. Look, it's a matter of options; let's review them together. The Government decides to maintain the approved increases of IRPF, successions, transmissions or VAT; and although it now says no of eliminating the reduced and super-reduced VAT, we all know that tomorrow will be yes. On the other hand, they do not choose to reduce some of the 541 top posts, which cost us EUR 89 million a year; it is a matter of options. The Government decides to reduce the tax deductions from the pension plans or decides - what shame - to eliminate the joint taxation for 3.6 million Spaniards, which means that a retired marriage, with a pension of about 18,000 euros, paid 1000 euros more per year of taxes. It could eliminate many of the 777 advisers, which cost us 44 million euros, 38% more than before. But no, the hand to the portfolio of the Spaniards, our retirees and our families. The government decides to raise estates and the pacts in life; it could optimize the €9 billion that the Court of Auditors tells them they have exceptions and irregularities; but no, they raise taxes on families; question of options. The Government decides to raise taxes to the 15 million diesel car drivers in Spain. They could reduce some of the EUR 14 billion in grants and accountability that the AIReF is talking about, but they don't decide that 15 million Spaniards will pay more. That's their credibility. Taxes on sugary beverages, single-use plastics, insurance; levies are raised abusively; registration tax; taxes on air tickets; purchases via the Internet or financial transactions. They could eliminate superfluous expenses, as it has been shown that they are the 100,000 euros of the salary of Tezanos, the 200,000 of the salary of the friend of Sánchez, now president of Post Offices; the 90,000 of the other friend of Sánchez or the nanny of the brands. Could you lower expenses? Yeah. They're gonna do it? No, no, Look, it's that they hide their original document and we find out with night and light that they intend to turn all the roads and highways of this country into toll roads; they intend to perpetrate the biggest robbery in the pocket of the working families of this country in their history. They could optimize some 14% of expenditure, some EUR 58 billion, which, according to the Institute for Economic Studies, could reduce unproductive spending in our budgets. But no, your choice is to punish our economy with tolls on all roads. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it is inadmissible to set these tolls on roads in our country. It is also unfair with regions like mine, Extremadura, with no air and rail connections thanks to its government. Are you aware of the inequalities that hide your measures? Of course they're conscious. What are our carriers doing with these tolls, and our farmers with their products? What are our entrepreneurs doing? Are you aware of the damage to small self-employed entrepreneurs, to all those who raise the country and generate wealth? Are they aware of the damage to families and workers who have to take the vehicle daily to go to work? In Spain we have to lower taxes, not raise them. In Spain we have a problem of tremendous competitiveness that is not solved by increasing even more the tax effort of the Spaniards, which is already at or above the average. If we want to grow and reduce unemployment, we have to lower taxes. And don't come talk to me about tax pressure, which I'm seeing. Let's talk about fiscal effort and compare. If the real goal is to strengthen our health and education and make them sustainable, as well as our pensions, we have to lower taxes and reduce unproductive and inefficient spending. We have to focus on creating wealth, not destroying it, and we have to bet on the freedom that emerges from our motion and our proposals here. Ladies and gentlemen, Margaret Thatcher said that the problem with socialism is that it cannot stand freedom. They don't like people to choose, because if they could choose, they would never choose socialism. That is precisely what is at stake in our country, freedom. They've had an experience in Madrid. Please vote in favour of our motion. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u195	Thank you. In defence of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u196	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Directorate General of Traffic, whoever uses the roads, pay them. That is the new welfare state promised by the Government of Spain. Well, look who uses the Ministry of Equality, who pays for it; and who sees public television, who also pays for it, and so some will save many taxes. I mean, they come to the rescue whoever they can. That is why I believe that three people have already fled Moncloa, high economic officials of the ruin government, in forty-eight hours. The motion defended here by the People's Party may seem to be the solution to a pressing need that the Spanish economy demands and that no Spanish Government has decided to carry out, because, it is well known, the People's Party proposes from the opposition, but fails when it governs. He says that some taxes will lower them, and he will raise them; that others will eliminate them, and if I have seen you I do not remember. And when it comes to autonomous financing, which they are also talking about, although Mr Píriz has not mentioned anything here, he rescues the autonomous communities that do not pay their suppliers for free. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you, with 186 seats, did not do what you could and that is why we are here today, because forVOX it is a priority that Spain ceases to be a fiscal hell, to be able to support and strengthen the Spanish economy as one of the most agile and competitive in the world. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, your motion calls for the tax effort of the Spaniards not to be increased, as it is among the highest in the OECD countries, but we amend your proposal because what the Spaniards need is not only an increase, but a reduction in that tax effort along with adequate funding for essential public services. Look, the increase in the ministerial structure of this social-communist government has meant an additional EUR 17 billion, a figure similar to that of the scholarship and study aid programme. Do we want scholarships or do we want sterile ministries? What do we want? Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the tax system must not involve tax increases, but abolish unnecessary expenditure, a good liposuction of inefficient administrative fat. I give you an example: if in a company the administrator, which would be the government, asks the shareholders, which would be the taxpayers, to make a capital increase and inject money because they have to pay the costs of the activity, the shareholders, i.e. taxpayers, will ask about the costs, and if the administrator says that, in addition to the current costs, they have to pay their luxury chalet, their sports and their holidays, what would the shareholders say? Let him pay for his whims. So Sanchez and his people pay for their jokes and instead of Falcon and four tourists when he comes to Congress, come as the Dutch Prime Minister, by bicycle, who is cheaper and non-polluting. A tax system must be neutral and never be an obstacle to investment and contracting business decision-making, it must allow competition in an open economy context. We need a reform that leads us to an attractive tax system for international productive investment that establishes its production or service centres within Spain and that does pay its taxes here, and that allows Spanish taxpayers to have a majority. Only in this way will the creation of wealth and employment be fostered and this increase in collection can be achieved in order to provide more and better resources for the public services that really matter and have social demand. It is possible, even if the sinister denies it and is unable to understand it, that by lowering taxes you can increase the collection. This motion is a decaffeinated and unbraved proposal, because it begins with this tax reduction but continues with autonomous financing; therefore, promoting unproductive spending. You're at Mass and rehearsing. Autonomies are the administrative bodies that most public resources consume and many of them inefficiently. This pandemic is unravelling its shames: decoordination of seventeen health systems, seventeen education systems, seventeen legislative legislative gallimes; only inequality in rights and restrictions. And the skills transferred to the communities put us the last ones in the PISA reports and offer poor health systems with poorly paid professionals. However, it is not lacking for the salaries of politicians and plugs, for oversized parliaments, for public enterprises without recognized activity and with huge losses, entities without entity or purpose. And the latest reforms of the autonomous financing system have increased the irresponsibility of territorial governments for the huge amount of funds received. Spain cannot continue to navigate through the turbulent waters of a discourse where the public treasury is nobody's and the important thing is to increase the collection to continue financing the political and administrative megastructure. Spanish people have less and less disposable income and their perception is that of public services that do not reach citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u197	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor for the Joint Group in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u198	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, you have no more tax plan than to fry taxes on the Spaniards. They came to tell us that they were not going to raise taxes more than the rich, but the truth is that they are stealing, because taking 80 billion from the Spaniards can make up as they want, but it is a theft of their freedom to decide what they should decide with their money. Because those of us who drink soft drinks are not rich, those who go for tolls are not rich, those who replenish fuel are not rich, those who drink in plastic glasses are not rich, people who pay together are not rich, people who pay reduced or super-reduced VAT, of course, are not rich. Do you know what the Spaniards want? The Spanish want them to stop putting their hands in the wallet and to take their fingers and put them in the scissors, in the scissors to cut off the superfluous ministries that this government has, the more than 1200 advisors with more than 1200 salaries that we pay to toteteja all the Spaniards; the scissors to cut off all the ideological chiringuitos that this government is financing, to cut off the more than 1000 million that cost us a public television, until now at the service of its government. That's what the Spaniards are sick of paying. So less taxes and more and better public services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u199	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u200	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to start by saying that the Canary Islands Coalition is opposed to tax harmonisation that does not take into account the uniqueities of the Canary Islands, our differences with other autonomous communities and respect for our economic and fiscal regime, and the incorporation of new taxes without knowing its impact on the competitiveness of the Canary Islands. But I am no longer going to say the Canary Islands Coalition, I am going to say the Government of the Canary Islands and all the Canary Islands, because yesterday, in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, the Government of the Canary Islands said in Parliament that the Canary Islands opposes the tax haven that Sánchez has promised Europe. Román Rodríguez, Vice-President of the Government and Finance Advisor, on behalf of the Government, said that it is generic and imprecise the tax proposal that Spain has sent to Brussels and rejects the rise in taxes: we are against it and we will vote against it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. And not only that, because, afterwards, the socialists come and say: yes, we are going to respect the Economic and Fiscal Regime, which I remind the socialist lords that it is in the Spanish Constitution!, but the Canary Islands is the only one that has its Economic and Fiscal Regime and its status of ultra-perificity in the European Treaty, in the European Constitution; they have to modulate fiscal policies of connectivity, investment and everything to the condition of ultra-perificity. And they say: we respect him. Do you respect him? They have removed the tax differential in film productions in violation of the Economic and Fiscal Regime, an activity that allowed to diversify the economy in the Canary Islands and that even in the pandemic has allowed to have certain hotels open with hundreds of people in productions. There's no difference with the Canary Islands anymore. They propose to raise air charges without distinguishing between the Canary Islands. Hundreds of documents have been sent to Brussels, and under no heading does it say 'with tax exemptions as far as the Canary Islands are concerned in all matters'. That is why I say that we are going to support this motion, and that is why the Canary Islands Government is going to vote against it, as it announced yesterday, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. It is the Canary Islands, and you continue to be unaware of what remoteness and insularity are, what is the constitutional framework, where the REF is, and the European Treaty. Always Brussels attends to the Canary Islands, always Brussels understands what the fiscal policy of the Canary Islands is, but we always find governments that violate it; therefore we demand and share this motion of the PP and we demand the modification of the autonomous financing system, that the studies are completed since 2018! There is no excuse to start gathering the autonomous communities, which have a social policy problem - it is the ones that finance health, education - and the jobs are finished - the previous jobs in 2018. It was a commitment to Compromís, to political forces, to this Member and to Mr Quevedo. I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u201	Your Honor, you must finish; your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u202	I'm on my way. I'm just telling you that the autonomous communities need a funding system after COVID. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u203	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Noise and fear, again noise and fear. Yesterday it was with housing, today it is with taxes, and it is logical; in the end, this is the achievement of the political agenda of involution, of reaction. Again they try to inoculate fear in large sections of the population, to be able to be in the working classes, so that they can continue to impose their hidden agenda. And this is what we should be talking about, because you are bringing us here today concrete initiatives that are only the finger so that we do not look at the moon, and the moon is that the distribution of wealth in the Spanish state is still not carried out efficiently. I'll tell you clearly, we don't have any pain in being honest, that's exactly why we don't have any pain in being honest. We do want to raise taxes, yes. We want to tax the rich, the banking and the IBEX 35, we want to tax the elite, we want the distribution of wealth to be effective and real. We want that what the Spanish Constitution says that the Spanish State is a social and democratic state of law to be true, and for it to be social and democratic it has to have resources, and it will have to take the resources of those who have accumulated them not for decades, but centuries. That's the sad reality. You present an initiative that even in some of its aspects can be questionable or even shared. For example, the liberalization of tolls. Perhaps he would have to enter more ecological transition, but it could still be questionable, of course. But why didn't you do it when you were ruling? The A-1 has had a toll until a year and a half ago. They did not then intend to remove them; now they do. We may also find it reasonable not to delete in the IRPF what has to do with the joint declaration, but what is the underlying problem? The fundamental problem is that in this country, in the Spanish state, there is wealth, of course, there is wealth, but it does not spread, it continues to be accumulated in the same hands as ever, and you propose to generate fear again in the population to distract the focus of attention from that reality - which will become increasingly dramatic if there are no ways of financing to sustain the social and democratic rule of law state in terms of health, education, employment, housing or social policies - and thus find breeding ground for its most reactionary readings. They tell us about fiscal shambles, they even tell us about fiscal hell and they encrypt it. Like I did yesterday, I'm going back to the data. They tell us about 80 billion euros that are going to burden the workers. It is not a small amount - 80 billion euros - but, look, it is small compared to what the Spanish state has forgiven the bank: 60 billion euros of withdrawal, and if we add what has to do with the purchase of assets of the Sareb, 88 billion euros. You see, more money than you say is going to impact on popular classes. And we could go further. The AIReF points out that corruption in the Spanish state costs 90 billion euros, 45,000 that are carried in crude straight into the pockets some ready and 45 000 that the state is spent on trying to recover them. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, that you can, because you have had it close by, cooperate with justice and have the money delivered. We could continue to give examples of where the money is going. We could also talk about the money that seems to be in Luxembourg or in tax havens, money from very real people and with a lot of nobility and ablation. We could also look at that. Notice that the proposals you make, those proposals that you say are a blast to the popular classes, when they translate into data, say contrary things. For example, Mrs Ayuso's proposal for an IRPF in Madrid - for example, but could put many others - says that they will reduce the IRPF half-point for all Madridns and Madridns. Do you know what that means? In that 30% of the population of Madrid, which charges less than EUR 12,000 per year, 30% will have an impact of EUR 0 per month; in that 40% of the population of Madrid, which charges less than EUR 30,000 or is in the fork below EUR 30 000, will have an impact of EUR 5 less per month. Not bad. 23% of Madrid's population, which charges less than 60,000 euros, will be affected by 11 euros less per month, but - and here is the trap - 7%, which charges more than 60,000 euros per year, the discount will be affected by 4500 euros. That is the real trap that you make, that you continue to seek mattresses and benefits for the wealthy classes, for the ruling class. You, when you talk about freedom, would have to explain to people, telling them the truth and not looking for another kind of subterfuge, how you think you can pay for health, education, social protection, care, employment housing if you don't ask the person who has the money. If even the IMF, if even Mr. Biden are posing things that even seem revolutionary when one listens to you. They are proposing that those who have the most pay, that they be co-responsible and that they be supportive. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, there is no freedom without equality, and you remain committed to perpetuating a system where there are oppressors and oppressed.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u205	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u206	Thank you, President. Mr Píriz, today you register a motion resulting from an inquiry into the rise in taxes, but the truth is that yesterday you registered a self-amendment that has little to do with that question submitted, because it obviates a lot of taxes to which you have referred today, such as the suppression of estates, property, etc., and you only speak in your motion of a number of points that refer to the Ministry's Recovery and Resilience Plan. It is a plan that indicates a number of reforms, but they are not in force at the moment. In addition, many groups here have criticized such reforms for their vagueness and lack of concreteness. We are presented with a motion with a series of points based on conjectures or intentions that we do not know if they will finally be carried out. It is true that they are in that plan, but it is unknown when they are going to be carried out and how, because they are going to look further for the specific time or circumstances to do so. For us, what you are bringing here today is a somewhat demagogic, somewhat populist motion, because that is the way to talk about taxes. It is true that no one likes to pay more, but what they hide is that paying less taxes cannot require quality or excellent public services. And it is populist because it seems that it sells more than the demand for renunciation of payment for using a series of roads - by the way, which is supposed to be by 2024 and, by the way, which you also raised when you were in government - and another number of factors, because it seems that it is what you want to hear now, an easy marketing policy. They try to use a series of reforms that appear in the plan, as I have said, that are not yet agreed; reforms that are intended to be carried out, if possible, when circumstances so advise, but what is really worrying, and I say this frankly, is the banal use that is made of tax reform, because it is spoken in a very banal way of raising or lowering taxes or reforms that could cost citizens a greater cost. What you are transferring to society is that lowering taxes is good and raising taxes is bad, and this is irresponsible. We cannot speak in these terms if we want a progressive, equitable system and, ultimately, that all people, that all pay their share. It is not a question of trivializing; the idea that taxes are essential, of course, for maintaining public services and the welfare state must be transferred to society. We all demand top-quality public services, but how can we achieve this if what is really being driven by certain political groups is that the contribution to the tax system is much smaller? Then they will tell us that we must look at ourselves in mirrors like that of Finland or other countries with a very high level of well-being, well-being that certainly is not achieved with a lower collection. They try to transfer to the citizenry, as some colleagues here have said, that the reform or revision of taxes is going to entail a bloodbath for the citizenry, but, I repeat, what they do not say is that, without resources, talking about a welfare state with services of excellence is a chimera, and what they do not say is that at the moment it is unknown when, how and where you want to touch on the tax issue or, what is the same, it is unknown what the distribution of those taxes will be, while you are already predicting that it will be the middle classes and the workers who will bear it. And this is not true, as I told you. It is necessary to think about what the future tax system is going to be to tackle the change in the economic model and future challenges, and this will require a sound debate on taxation and future reforms, reforms that, of course, must be geared both to growth and to ensuring the sustainability of public finances. And this will have to be done both if there are one or the other in the Government, because today they say one thing, but if they reach the Government they may have to do the opposite. Be careful. What I agree with in their motion, in the previous motion and in the points of the present, is that they speak - although they still have some problem with some other group - of fiscal autonomy, and fiscal autonomy is fiscal sovereignty. Do you know what this principle entails? It involves taking risks, contributing to the state's arks in an equitable way, and impeccable management between what is collected and what is spent to improve the quality of life of people, ultimately bringing together income and expenditure to improve the quality of life of people. In short, it is a combination of responsibility and spending capacity. And you know what this is called? Economic concert. Some don't like it. Obviously - and I am finishing - we are not going to support this motion, because it lacks any justification and because at the moment there is nothing decided about these reforms, just an outline of possible reforms. Magical recipes, of course, do not exist, there are no simple solutions to complex issues and, therefore, simplistic slogans must be abandoned, because we believe that they are a mistake.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u207	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u208	By the way, today Brussels is raising Spain's GDP forecast and, therefore, what needs to be done is to take advantage of the economic goodness or that economic growth that will come to carry out as many reforms as are deemed appropriate. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u209	For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u210	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, since today is 12 May, International Day of Nursing, I wanted to send a thank you from my parliamentary group and all its members, technicians and Members, to all the nurses and nurses who have always been there, but who have now more than ever left much to help us all. [[Applauds]] This Government is becoming less and less surprised, and we are no longer talking about Minister Montero. How many times have my parliamentary group asked Minister Montero about our country's fiscal future and how many times have she not answered by denying the largest. Stop fooling the Spaniards, who already know their modus operandi: first, they say they don't raise taxes and then they only raise them to the rich and then we catch them with the ice cream cart, with insurance, VAT or diesel tickets; all rich, let's go: transporters, families who fill the shopping bag or hire insurance to buy a home. A few weeks ago it was Edmundo Bal who asked at the control session; I asked him myself at the Treasury Committee on 27 April, just a day later, and this very morning he asked Inés Arrimadas. What answer have we had? None. Edmundo Bal asked him in a control session for his used expression tax harmonization. What this government calls fiscal harmonization is for the rest of the Spaniards to raise taxes. Who do you want to cheat on? We already have the first tax increases that were made through the State's General Budgets: the IRPF, corporation tax, property tax, VAT - in particular, sugary drinks -, insurance, the increase in the tax on insurance premiums from 4 to 8 %, gambling... I myself asked you just the day after that monitoring session, in the Committee on Finance, for your committee of experts and for tax reform, another of the great covers you send to Europe. I also asked him about the work that had been commissioned by the committee: what taxes they are going to review, what they are going to go up, what planning of the reform they have thought about, what jobs they have commissioned him. What did you expect as an answer? The exercise of transparency and accountability that must accompany the appearances of ministers in this House. But no; he answered with almost the same terms in the press note that days before he had taken out his own ministry. Well, he added a brief analysis. Literally he said: Some taxes can go up, some can go down, maybe we create some, maybe we eliminate another... Come on, vagrants. He didn't say anything at all, but, as I'm telling you, he didn't surprise me. Throughout the legislature he has never recognized the real intention of his ministry, which is to raise taxes. But, it was that that appearance coincided with the election campaign of the Madrid Community and, of course, how I was going to say that I was going to raise taxes in the middle of the election campaign. The last time we asked him was this morning, and we all heard that answer a few hours ago. Fortunately, it is the press that is in charge of degenerating what the tax reform that will affect all Spaniards will be like: the rise of the property tax, inheritances, diesel, will create the plastic tax, will eliminate the joint taxation of the IRPF and the latest news says that it will eliminate the reduced rates of VAT. Will all this affect only the richest? Well, not really. We will vote yes on this motion, although we have to see that self-amendment recorded by the People's Party, and we will vote yes on the original motion, because we do not need to tax citizens, self-employed people and businesses to collect more, and less in the midst of the economic crisis or when the long-awaited recovery begins. Ask yourself - as Inés Arrimadas told the minister this morning - why Spain is the only country in the European Union that goes in the opposite direction to those who lower taxes. We will vote yes because the Tobin rate and the Google rate had to be raised in our country by hand and with the consensus of the OECD countries and also because we fear that they will give effect to the separatists' request and remove and do not respect the tax autonomy of the autonomous communities. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u211	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u212	Thank you very much, President. I am going to ask, Mr President, for the help of the Bureau because I have lost myself on the agenda. Are we in the questionable motion section or in the GNP section? Many consequences of interpellation, I understand. That means that this is the result of an inquiry previously made to the Government, and, in relation to what the Government replies, a proposal is made for the House to approve it. I couldn't follow Mr. Garcés's inquiry, but I checked it carefully. When I read the self-amendment, I saw it talking about joint taxation, but I reviewed the inquiry and there was nothing joint taxation; I saw it talking about roads, but I reviewed the inquiry and there was nothing about roads. The only explanation, therefore, is that the interpellation responded to an electoral campaign and the subsequent motion for interpellation responded to an electoral pre-campaign. Frankly, when I saw in the inquiry that the People's Party intended to defend the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities before the Government, I said: This is worth following. When the government is right to harm the government that wants to harmonize certain taxes, one - that even if time passes quickly still has some memory - thinks this sounds like Mr Montoro. Mr Montoro is going to propose this and now the People's Party is going to fail? Look, I know the statements Mr Montoro has made recently, but I have brought you some argument that I know you will appreciate. I didn't bring you an article from El País or the public, I brought you the article from the ABC of May 23, 2018, next week it will be three years. [[Shows a press clipping]] It says: Montoro urges to harmonize successions between regions. This is what Mr Montoro, the minister of the People's Party, and the committee of experts proposed by the People's Party proposed. We were and are against tax harmonisation, we are convinced. We are because we are an independent party, a party that thinks that everyone should be able to manage their autonomy, also financial, as they wish. I am very surprised by the position of the Republican Left in relation to this issue. I can't understand. If an independent party cannot obtain independence, at least it will be federalist, and if it cannot obtain the Federal State, at least it will be autonomous. That we renounce aside from our own self-government, our capacity to decide because Madrid is making us tax dumping and that the solution to the problem of tax dumping is that Madrid equals taxes to the rest of the autonomous communities... In Catalonia we have the inheritance tax that we have, not because we want to, but because we have a bad system of autonomous financing, because we have no resources, because we are absolutely underfunding. Therefore, the solution is not fiscal harmonisation, let us not be mistaken. Here Republican Left is scoring a goal all over the squad. This - someone has defined it and it is true - is nothing more than the foreword of the Loapafiscal, and we do not want either an administrative Loapa or a fiscal Loapa. This harmonization cannot therefore be achieved. If problems have to be solved, a new funding system will have to be put in place. To Esquerra Republicana and others who may be tempted I recommend that from the 2017 expert report...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u213	Your Honor, your time is up. Finally, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u214	... the private vote of Dr. Guillem López Casasnovas is read. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u215	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Next, for the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u216	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bel, I see you're on the pre-campaign. You have spoken more about Republican Left than about the PP in a motion tabled by the PP. He doesn't understand it because you're right-wing - it's okay - and he defends the same privileges for the rich as he defends the PP. Is he an independentist? Yes, but it's right-wing and, therefore, it defends the same thing as PP, but in Catalonia, and it's okay, it's okay, really. [[Applauds]] We are faced with the umpteenth guerrilla war in the form of a motion and interpellation between two of the parties on which the 78's regime, the PP and the PSOE are based, who always walk in these economic policy battles. And what does the PP ask in this motion? What the right always asks in times of crisis: cuts, less social investment and less public importance, which is also what Mr Bel and the PDECAT defend. In the worst crisis in recent years, with many people receiving ERTE, unemployed and attending food banks, they ask that the rich, the old ones, whom they represent, stop paying taxes. In short, they propose the same austere policies that they implemented in order to emerge from the 2008 crisis, which led to a social crisis with great consequences, from which many citizens have not yet recovered, and an economic collapse in many autonomous communities and municipalities due to the Budget Stability Act of Minister Montoro, which caused them to have to apply cuts and not be able to provide the necessary services to the citizenry. The PP doesn't care, for example, that the president of the United States, Joe Biden, nothing suspected of being social-communist or dangerous separatist, proposes to raise the corporate tax from 21% to 28% to finance his project to create employment; it doesn't care that the European Union asks for new revenues to increase its own resources or that the International Monetary Fund - nothing suspected of being independent and leftist - proposes a temporary reduction in tax on high incomes and assets to cover the crisis, all of this gives it the same. The PP asks us in this motion to abolish taxes on property, inheritance and donations, that is, that we continue to give privileges to those who have the most. I guess this is freedom for the right, privileges for the rich and then some reeds and go to the bulls. Furthermore, in paragraph 2 of the motion we are literally asked to delay the entry into force of new taxes, following the recommendations of the OECD, and to remain so calm, when precisely yesterday, Mr Píriz, the OECD published a very critical analysis of its policies, specifically its policies in the Madrid Community. He was literally saying that Madrid is serving as an internal tax haven, with a tax rate of 0%, and that this tax, the inheritance tax, was an important instrument for advancing economic recovery and ending inequalities. I am therefore not surprised that you have tabled a self-amendment on other matters, because your motion was not held up anywhere. Indeed, Madrid acts as a de facto tax haven, exerting fiscal dumping, as a black vacuum hole and centralizing resources that harms all the territories of the Spanish State. And then they complain about emptied Spain and submit motions about it. If Spain is being emptied it is because its policies of many decades in Madrid are emptiing it. We shall therefore vote against this motion. You intend to make the same policies of cuts as always, thinking only of a few and obviating the majority, and we, as a party of the left, defend the usual, to raise taxes to those who have the most, to the great fortunes, to the big companies, to lower taxes to the lowest incomes, countercyclical policies to get out of the crisis, to give possibilities to the public administrations to make expansive policies favoring the productive economy not speculative and a sharing of European funds that do not favor the economy of the BOE or the Bernabéu stage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u217	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u218	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if you have the same perception as I do, but lately I feel that the People's Party, when we talk about economic issues, is getting a little esoteric, Mr Píriz - and I'm going to try to explain myself - because when it comes to informing economic policy proposals, you don't get the hands of legal, academic or technical texts, but of the güija; you know, that analog device that from a board opens a channel of communication between us - oh, poor mortals - and beyond. And I say this because not only do they propose to us a spectral, ethereal, not substantive dialogue, but - oh, surprise - the spectrum always tells them what they want to hear. They have been invoking a ghost theory that was coined by Mr Laffer, an economist who in the 1970s believed that he had found the philosophical stone of taxation, according to which it is possible to increase the net collection of the country by reducing its fiscal pressure. As you know, this approach has long gone on to a better life, once the principle of reality has placed Mr Laffer in the world of nymphs. So much so that when Mr Montoro was urged to increase the collection already a decade ago, what he did was increase the fiscal pressure and not reduce it, leaving himself with nymphs and tales. But from this they do not seem to remember today's correspondents, who from the opposition have decided to abstain and prefer to dialogue with the ultratumba. The motion we are discussing today is a new step in this direction, this time opening the channel with the beyond to invoke Frank's index, fiscal effort, an economist who in 1959 - that is, twenty years before Mr Laffer-planted the concept of fiscal effort; a statistician who intended to correct some inaccuracies associated with the traditional concept of fiscal pressure. The problem is that, by including GDP per capita in the index, certain aberrations begin to appear. Mr. Píriz, you would have to know this. I will give you a simple example: we have country A, which has a per capita income of EUR 100 and a tax burden of, say, 40%; therefore, its tax effort is 0.4% in line with this index. We compare it with country B, which has a per capita income of 500 euros and a tax pressure of 100%; therefore, its tax effort is 0.2. Look, Mr Píriz, what the index is saying, that is, the country B, which remains with a disposable income equal to zero - 100% tax pressure, equal to zero - would be making a lower tax effort than the country which remains with an income of 60. So it happens that the developed countries, according to this index, would seem an excess of effort - just what you think of our country - and consequently the model to which we would have to propose is that of the developing countries. This doesn't make any sense, Mr. Píriz, you'll have to give me reason. [[Mr. Píriz Maya makes negative gestures with his head]] For this reason the index fell rapidly into disuse in the 1960s - you should also know this - and so today you will hardly find a reference to this concept in contemporary economic literature. But that's what the pebbles are for, isn't it? To rescue ghosts and abstract us from the harsh reality. At this stage, perhaps the next spiritualist session the PP calls to Mr Colbert's spectrum and brings us to this House a firm defense of 17th-century mercantileism, or perhaps the regression goes further and directly proposes a return to the barter. Who knows? Moreover, the text that we are debating today is a dark ode, a sinister song that calls for the de facto dismantling of our welfare state. Nor do we miss, after all, this is a partisan defense of his friends: of the bankers, of the billionaires, of the privileged who have accumulated fortunes in this country based on sucking on the tits of the state for decades, but who have never been willing to hold it. Thus the PP aims to eliminate some tax figures specifically designed to guarantee this basic constitutional principle called fiscal progressiveity, such as inheritance and donation tax or property tax, both of which affect above all the upper classes, that is, the amigos. Finally, the motion ends with a certain spark of lucidity, probably a transient sanity, which reacts to the nonsense of the very approach they make. In view of the absurdity of wanting to guide the country's economic policy from overnight compasses, a trench is sought at the regional level, Madrid, and they make a quasi-heroic appeal to resist and ensure the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities, as if someone had threatened such autonomy. Finally, I just want to remind you of Article 156 of our Constitution and I recommend that you read it in its entirety, which always remain in the first sentence. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this crisis that we are still going through has as a necessary counterpart the return of the State, the renewed relevance of public services to society as a whole and, above all, the need for the upper classes to be involved at last in the support of the State that gives them shelter and guarantees them. And this is no longer just the usual reds, Your Honor - and with this I conclude, President - listen, please, to the new tune that comes from Washington, which comes from Brussels, which comes from Berlin, which comes from Paris. I don't know if you've seen the OECD report yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u219	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u220	... nowhere does he speak of the fiscal hell of Spain, what he does speak of is a fiscal paradise in Madrid. Pass that text, because, Your Honor, the soundtrack of the world is changing and you're still there, dancing the polka. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u221	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Fuentes Curbelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u222	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the current context the Government has to face extraordinary challenges, such as the consolidation of economic growth, the modernisation of the economy, the strengthening of social and territorial cohesion, climate change, depopulation, precariousness, inequality and the crisis caused by this pandemic. All these demands require appropriate proposals while respecting the economic and budgetary stability resulting from Spain's status as a Member State of the European Union, or, which is the same, maintaining the commitment to deficit control. Our Constitution defines our country as a social and democratic State governed by law and, as such, must protect and promote social justice, the well-being of all citizens through equitable distribution of wealth, fight against inequalities, protect the most vulnerable and provide quality and accessible public services. The tax system is the basis of the social state. Without sufficient public revenue, it is not possible to maintain a robust social state that guarantees equal opportunities and social cohesion. Taxation is an instrument to foster changes that guide more just, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, combat inequality in all areas, contribute to preserving the environment and help us meet the major challenges of a globalized world, contributing to the aspirations of citizens. The Government, as a matter of equity and social justice, aims to recover the progressive nature of the system by making those with more economic capacity contribute more. It is a priority, as is the fight against fraud and tax evasion. We need to modernize our tax system, gradually incorporating emerging economic sectors that do not currently contribute in line with the recommendations of major international bodies. Gentlemen of the People's Party, you are returning to this Chamber today with the same canteen that you did on 21 April, presenting a motion with distorted statements. As they call it, the reality is that Spain has historically maintained a level of public revenue below the European average and that of the OECD as a whole. That is to say, it is one of the countries that collect less in relation to the wealth it generates: 7 points less than the European Union average, 37.9% of GDP, far below countries such as France, Finland, Denmark or Sweden. The OECD itself has advised our country to increase revenue through reductions in exemptions from the IRPF and a reduction in the use of reduced VAT rates. That, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is what you so insist on. With their tax populism they intend to attribute to the Government the abolition of the joint taxation option of the IRPF. They miss the truth again. You are well aware that this is a recommendation of the AIReF, in its June 2020 report, to combat the gender gap in the workplace, which will be discussed in the committee of experts created to review and update our tax model in line with international trends. They are anchored in the confrontation with the Government rather than hoisting their shoulders to get out of the health, economic and social crisis that has occurred to us during the COVID-19. You, along with the far right, do not contribute to social peace, nor to fiscal harmonisation as an unavoidable vehicle to alleviate the effects of the crisis. They only defend the indefensible. They don't work or let work. They oppose the goal that those with greater wealth should contribute equitably to a progressive fiscal model, where everyone contributes according to their capacity and receives according to their need, preserving the working middle class, which has borne the hard times of the crisis with its efforts. You ask to respect and guarantee the autonomy of the Autonomous Communities, for I tell you what the Government is going to do: to give the Autonomous Communities the capacity to generate their own system of resources as the main source of funding.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u223	Your Honor, your time is over; it must be over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u224	I'm done, President. Because the system of financing the autonomous communities of our country has evolved from its origins into a system of financial autonomy that develops not only the revenue side, but also the expenditure side. What we will not do is what Mr Montoro did in 2017 with the collection of VAT, leaving them to their fate. This Government wants a tax system that guarantees sufficient income to finance a strong and high-quality welfare state. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u225	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Píriz Maya, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u226	Our own self-amendment, but that of VOX we do not accept.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u227	Okay. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE MEASURES THE GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO TAKE TO RELIEF THE SPANISH TAX EXERCISE. [[File number 173/000071]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u228	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to alleviate the Spanish fiscal effort. For the author group of the initiative - wait a moment for me to name it - and for the defense of the motion, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[applause]] Now I do. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing that applause. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we are debating a motion resulting from urgent questioning. For those of you who see us from home, you should know that there are urgent appeals to the Government in parliamentary sessions, which are a measure of control of the Government, and at the next session there is a motion, in which the group presenting, in this case VOX, presents a type of initiative that all parliamentary groups have to vote on and therefore get wet or run for. In my speech I spoke to the minister, well, I spoke, I addressed her and she insulted me, but we had, in a way, a dialogue in which I proposed a series of ideas for the government's fiscal policy. He believed that the Government's fiscal policy should follow a series of ceilings; in principle, it should depart from lies and fallacies and be based on legitimate arguments. I suggested that the fiscal policy of the government so far - and they have defended it again today, both the minister and the spokesmen of the Socialist Party, including the spokesman for Podemos - should depart from three fallacies; three fallacies that are constantly repeated. First, a tax increase. An increase in pressure on the Spaniards will not automatically improve the welfare state; don't get confused, stop repeating it, stop lying to the Spaniards because that's not the case. They always say taxes are going to be paid by the rich. This is also a lie!It is also a fallacy on which the government's fiscal policy is systematically based, and this is absolutely false. Finally, they always talk about the fiscal pressure, which must be comparable to that of other countries in our environment, and this indicator is also not valid. A government's fiscal policy cannot be guided by fiscal pressure; it must be guided by other indicators, and one we suggest is precisely the fiscal effort that we can so criticize. I say that the minister insulted me, and today again she has insulted several of the parliamentary groups; she supports the elbow in the rostrum, and, as if from a bar bar, she launches pseudo-communist slogans mixed with disrespect, even personal, to the Members who question her. And this does it not by chance, well, it's true that it's his personal style, it's a little brand of the house, but it does it intentionally. What is intended, in short, as always, is to launch a smokescreen; it is intended to lose sight of us and that we focus on insults; it is intended that we focus on their chances, on that kind of jokes that he constantly launches, rather than on the nuclear issue, which is the fiscal expoliation to which the Spaniards, Socialists, are subject. [[Applauds]] Don't deny it with your head. You are expressing the Spanish, expressing them as if they were medieval lords, who squeeze to the last cent of the taxpayers, to the last, while cheating on them with slogans. As I say, there is no correlation between the increase in tax collection and the welfare state, because the reality is that a lot of money, a lot of money from which you - you too, gentlemen of the People's Party - are systematically wasted. Among other expenses, those 22 government ministries, which, by the way, have raised salaries in the last financial year; those subsidies to trade unions which have increased by 56 % in the last financial year, by 56 % when the Spaniards are going through it frankly wrong; they have rescued you from an airline related to chavismo to which you have injected 53 million euros; they have renewed the fleet of official cars. Spain has almost nine times more politicians per inhabitant than Germany. Not to mention the 800 million stolen by the Andalusian PSOE. When Mrs Castañón of Podemos said the other day that the People's Party has that record of corruption in Europe, I do not agree, as much as the sub-champions will be, because the champions are the government party, the Socialist Party, which stole 800 million euros from the Andalusians, and that is not a welfare state. [[Applauds]] So, if you take money out of the pocket of the Spaniards to waste it on these kinds of issues, you obviously don't go to the welfare state. Tax collection will depend on the middle and working classes, because, gentlemen of the PSOE, who has a diesel car, it is the rich who have diesel cars, it is the rich who consume sugary drinks? I ask you: who has a gas heater in their house, are the rich, are the millionaires? Do you think the big football stars are the ones who have gas heating in their homes? No, it's the working classes, and those are the ones who are going to suffer the tax pressure on their shoulders to pay for your whims. They continue with the history of fiscal effort and fiscal pressure. The Lord of Podemos comes here and gives us a quantitative and mathematical explanation. The reality, Mr Guijarro, is that it is not the same to pay 37% for average income of EUR 20000 that for average income of EUR 50 000 or 60,000. It is not the same and it is a matter of pure logic. To the minister - who is unfortunately not here today - I have to say that it is very fair to pay taxes. All Spaniards are willing and happy to pay taxes, but you will be able to come here to ask for tax increases when you have guaranteed the end of subsidies to trade unions, when you have guaranteed the reduction of autonomous parliaments, the reduction of Congress, the reduction of the Senate, when you have promised to end subsidies to ideological chiringuitos, advisors, nannyes, etc. So, when you manage well, you can come and ask the Spaniards to pay more money. Until then, silence. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u230	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Year and a half after the start of the 14th Legislature, the suffocating fiscal pressure to which the Government is subjecting the Spanish is frightening. The details of the various measures sent to Brussels reveal an unparalleled tax abuse in the European Union. The government of Sánchez wants to raise 80 billion euros, the socialist fiscal vacuum in its maximum power, the waste and waste to which Mr Figaredo was most certainly referring. I have little time, so I will focus on Asturias, because in the very recent report drawn up by the prestigious and solvent Institute for Economic Studies on fiscal competitiveness it is pointed out that, although there are differences between regions, most of the Spanish Autonomous Communities have significantly worse regulatory fiscal pressure on the European average. In the case of the Principality, the tax burden is 15 points above the national total and 25 points above the European Union. It is revealing and tragic to see us in the wake of fiscal competitiveness, a situation that perpetuates us year after year in the red light of the labour force rate, and that drags us to depopulation and demographic ageing, as a consequence not only of the low birth rate, but of the mass emigration of our young people in the face of the lack of opportunities, as reflected in the fact that Asturias is today the European region with the highest rate of youth unemployment, of the order of 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, with socialist governments, Spain and Asturias are going very badly. The recent news of the end of the reduction by joint taxation is another piece of information on the middle class and the evidence of the looting spirit of the government of Pedro Sánchez. I shall therefore vote in favour of this initiative by the VOX Group. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u232	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. After the debate on the previous initiative and what we are carrying from it, I think the problem is to define who is rich. Because the government says that it's only going to raise taxes to the rich and that the right only wants to lower taxes to the rich. And of course, that's what you have to put names and surnames on. Then, when you see that you want to eliminate the joint declaration and that 70% of the people making the joint declaration charge less than €30,000, you have to conclude that for the government everyone who pays less than €30,000 is rich. So, yes, they are going to raise taxes to everyone, that is to say to all the rich, according to the Government. And that is important, when it is said that on roads they will be paid for using all roads, I understand that everyone who passes the road is not rich and therefore for the government must also be rich. What is clear is that the government is going to raise taxes to everyone, to all people, and that when they are caught, they are trying to rectify, as with the issue of the joint declaration, which now say that it is a mistake, with the issue of roads, that today the minister said it appeared by a role but that, well, nothing of that. That no, that people are not silly, that people know that if it were for you they would take them from their ankles, put them there, darken them until they drop the last euro, which is what they want to do. And what's going on? They want to do that. And if taxes were raised to do things like creating jobs, etc., but no, if we have it here, if the seats here don't fit, if we had to expand this because the ministers didn't fit. [[pointing to the government bench]] You say, well, ministers work, but if we don't know them. But if there are ministers who have not passed through here, who came the day of the investiture, the day they were appointed and have not returned. [[Applauds]] If people don't know who those ministers are, but at least listen, apply the story a little bit. And we are no longer going to talk about advisors, who need advisors to advise advisors. Man, please. You think they're laughing at people. That people do not arrive at the end of the month and see that taxes are raised, that they want to be charged for going on the roads, that they go up to sugary drinks, everything that has been said here, diesel, everything that is used and yet the government does not apply the story at all. It's just for nothing. Not even a little gesture, that you could have a little gesture. Nothing. Zero. A sacrifice is being asked of the Spaniards that the government is not willing to give, and that, as has happened in Madrid, will have consequences, and is that the day the Spanish will speak, and speak as they have spoken in Madrid. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u234	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u235	Thank you, President. We are going to vote against this motion. It is very in line with that presented by the PP, with different arguments, but we say the same thing again: that without resources or with few resources it is difficult to demand quality public services, and without resources or with few resources to talk about welfare state is a quimera. They try to give us a master class about what tax pressure and tax effort are, and of course, we also have to say that lower tax pressure does not necessarily indicate less taxes or lower taxes, because it is an indicator that is calculated according to actual collection and not according to potential. And, although it seems logical, to say that if taxes rise, that is not clear either, because that would be so whenever everything else remained constant. They also tell us about a Frank index as if the citizenry knew it; a index, which, by the way, is out of date. They try to confuse people with macroeconomic terms to convince them well of the evil of increasing taxes or of the goodness of lowering them, and this is also called cheating on people, because reducing taxes means introducing cuts, which are usually going to have a major social impact, and because you, when you talk to us today - and you know it - about a decentralization or a reduction in spending like the one you are putting forward, eradicating subsidies to parties, unions, chiringuitos, know that it is not enough to face the welfare state; it does not square the figures. And to pose this is a demagogy, because what would be saved in this would be insufficient, would be a laughable amount to cover the social spending that is required. And, man, they're telling us about morality and chiringuitos when some of your leaders have been collecting from a chiringuito that didn't have activity, so, truth, it's pretty unfortunate. [[Applauds]] It is also a populist motion as a model of society that they are implementing, a society that they claim to not want to pay taxes or to pay less; and I, of course, refuse to believe that we are in a society of this kind, because, if we all pay the part that is ours progressively and if we are all clear that resources benefit society and result in better quality of life, I don't think the problem is paying more or less taxes, the problem would be when you don't know where that money goes or if it goes into other people's pockets. Citing an economist - with whom, of course, you will not agree - Krugman, in his book The Age of Limited Expectations, says that we spend a great deal of time analyzing macro variables that people do not understand and whose improvements, if they are not accompanied by concrete policies or actions resulting from that good diagnosis of these macro variables, will not directly and adequately revert to society or people's lives. And what you propose to us today are actions derived from a diagnosis, of course, erroneous or outdated variables that are hardly going to reverse in a favorable way in people's lives; perhaps they will do so in the short term, but not in the medium or in the long term. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u236	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u237	Thank you, President. Today's second motion talking about taxation. A reform that the European Union demands from us, fiscal reform, as a condition for the arrival of the funds that Spanish people so much need to get out of this economic crisis that has not yet shown its worst face. A reform that, at best, you hide and hide with a vague allusion to the committee of experts, which comes to be that it is neither a reform nor anything like it. And that, in the worst case scenario, which is what we normally do in this government, they do what we know they want to do, which is to raise taxes and above cover. Because you hide and hide authentic sandstones as if the Spaniards were not to know what is being discussed in Europe. And although our President, Inés Arrimadas, has already said this here today in Congress, I will repeat it again: we are aware of what is being debated in the European Union and, above all, of the warnings that are constantly being issued. Without reforms, there's no money. Are you really least aware of the historical responsibility of managing European funds? Spain faces a recovery that must determine the future of millions of Spaniards who see with uncertainty the lack of direction of this government. And what is happening with this government is that there is a great deal of haste to announce tax increases and none to address the reforms on which aid depends. Look at you, paying debts to nationalists by bringing in prisoners and giving in skills continues to leave outstanding the biggest debt, which is the model of country that we are going to leave our children. It is clear that this tax reform contains indiscriminate tax rises that are always a bad idea, but they are now directly immoral, since it should have been clearly reported in Congress, and not only because this House has a lot to say, but because the Spanish, families, self-employed and businesses have a right to know them, because unfortunately they are the ones who are most affected. From this tax reform doubts even the AIReF itself, because it is not concrete. It does so by assessing the 2021 Stability Plan presented a couple of weeks ago by this government, which directly says that it does not contain a complete or concrete fiscal strategy, or even the impact of the reforms envisaged. And the worst thing is that they will do it because they will have to rectify, and rectify, not thinking of families, but of the pull of ears that Brussels will once again give them. Yeah, a new earshake because from Brussels we've only been able to do that lately. How can they afford not to comply with the European Union, if they even doubt that the plans they have sent are the same as we know here by the press and by word of mouth? Since the Government likes to make references to other countries, we will repeat that. Take note of what other countries in the European Union are doing: the true European model is not the model of the PSOE. See, Germany lowers VAT from 19 to 16 % and to hotels to 7 %; France has a tax incentive plan to lower taxes by EUR 50 billion and Italy lowers taxation to companies investing in technology. It seems a lie that this Government has not yet learned that there are two ways to adjust a budget: revenue and expenditure. You, in the face of an economic crisis, only know how to raise taxes, and you don't know how to adjust your belt. How can the most expensive and largest government in history be maintained, with twenty-two ministries and 1200 advisers, while asking the Spaniards to pay more to live, work and consume? Do you know what Spanish families do when we have a bad economic moment? Adjust our expenses. I know you will tell me that the expenditure cannot be adjusted because, of course, it cannot be cut in health, in education, in dependence - of course not - but do you know where families are cut from? Of expenses that are not important. They don't leave their children without new glasses or support classes, but they take off expenses that aren't essential. That is what we are asking of this Government. Why don't you? Why don't you make a serious assessment of that inefficient expenditure that this government has and allocate it to the important, to the families, and stop raising taxes to the middle class? On tax fraud and the submerged economy, why have they not made the report that the Citizens' Parliamentary Group has requested on several occasions to know how many submerged economies there are and go against those who do not pay? Because those who do can no longer pay taxes. We are going through a historic moment as a country; do not be irresponsible and sectarian; do not use delicate circumstances as an excuse to advance an ideological agenda. They are up to the point, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in keeping with Europe and putting on their side so that after this crisis we can go out with the families, with the self-employed, with the SMEs, with the businesses recovered and with a Spain prepared to face the challenges of the 21st century. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u238	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Master Moliner.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u239	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this ultra-right motion presents us with a political option, because we must not forget that, first of all, every time we talk about fiscal policy, and specifically about taxation, it is a political issue. And without any indecentness they present us here that they pay less taxes than they have most. Although some may qualify as fallacy, the reality is completely different, Mr Figaredo, the reality is different. Because, what does all this translate into? This, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, is, unfortunately, because they do not have an alternative plan, to reduce our health, to reduce our education, pensions, even justice. [[protests]] Because we already know that you are many private hospitals, private schools, private universities, private pension funds. We already know all that, and we won't be surprised that any day they're even private justice. Because of course they seem to be very interested, in the light of even the latest complaints that the prosecutor's office - yes, the prosecutor's office, which still exists, that accusation - is formulating against its leader in Madrid, Mrs. Rocío Monastery. In this sense, their choice is far from reality, quite the opposite of what they really want us to believe; but not only of reality, but also of international debate. I have tried to explain it to my partner in a very clear and, in my opinion, pedagogical way, but it is that you simply refuse to believe it. Well, don't believe him, create everything that the countries of the European Union are saying or everything that they are saying as a result of all this economists and specialized literature. We know that to you the idea that you pay more who has more sounds quite far away and, as I said, you are dedicated to looking, fooling all people who buy a fairly easy speech and, as other groups have said, populist. Let us set an example, because it seems that everything is much better understood by examples. Of course I will refer to his campaign within the Community of Madrid and to one of his star measures, which specifically verbalized Mr Espinosa de los Monteros on a television channel, where he said: it will go down half a point of the IRPF for all, whatever its scale, it will be done because it is something that goes on the VOX programme, because it is something that has been agreed with the PP and that has been accepted. Well, let's make it clear what this means in practice. This implies that for 30% of Madridns and Madridns who charge less than EUR 12 000 will be zero, zero. It supposes that for 40% who earns less than 30,000 euros their wonderful tax discount would save them 50 euros. And now, for all those, that 7%, which earns more than EUR 60000, would save them a little more than EUR 4500. If we know very well for whom they legislate or who they seek to legislate, and that's where the evidence is seen, comparing it with programs and giving concrete examples, what I'm trying to do. In this sense, you repeat it in Madrid, but surely you are taking your speech, both to Andalusia and to Murcia and to any place where the People's Party accepts its blackmail and populism. The reality we are in is a simple equation. We are talking about the public spending needed and the tax burden needed to finance it. To finance everything we've talked about. Because we are talking about the size of the public sector in the economy, its robustness and the quality of public services, and the degree of social development that each political option wants to achieve. Of course, ours is trying to go - and he'll say he gets it - far beyond that. I will not speak again of everything that my colleague has commented and that you have tried to discredit, even against international opinion, but let us be clear: one of the great problems that this country has, going beyond, is fraud. When people with million dollar current accounts flee to Andorra or invent new ways of defrauding. When the 120 billion euros that the IMF says have been defrauded by Spanish fortunes continue to deteriorate, even sometimes it could even be some head of state. In this regard, let us be very clear. In conclusion: their policies are from privatization, from tax cuts - yes, I have told you - to the rich and from dismantling the social state. We, on the other hand, will vote no and we will bet on public services, on progressive and fair collection and on paying more for those who have more. We're with the public. I'm done, President, remembering...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u240	Finish, because your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u241	Yes, of course. I end up remembering a salmantine woman, like me, who was murdered last Monday as a victim of the macho violence that, by speeches like hers, continues to proliferate. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u242	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u243	I am asking for the floor for references, Mr President, Rule 71.3.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u244	No, you don't have the floor. What is laid down here is the result of the debate. We continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u245	You must give me the floor when there are personal remarks, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u246	No, there has been no personal allusion, it is the result of the debate, as I say. [[Rumors]] Mr. Bas Corugeira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u247	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the statement made by the Minister of Finance this morning, it is clear that Mr Sánchez is on his way to ruin Spain and that he is already worse president than Mr Zapatero. The pandemic affects all countries, but ours presents the worst data. Our actual unemployment rate is over 23%, with almost six million Spaniards who want to work and can't, and in the past year more than one hundred thousand companies have closed down and more than four hundred thousand self-employed people are in a state of cessation. Ladies and gentlemen, this country's problem is called Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, who has turned the Socialist Party into a radical party and who has been deceiving right-wing and sinister ever since he came to the government. His voters, of course, with that pact with Podemos after having denied it in campaign, but he has also deceived the groups represented in this House and who, with their votes, made him president. I would like to make a special mention of the Member of the BNG, Mr Rego, who is checking how useless his support was for Galicia and how unreliable Mr Sánchez is. And it's that we're before the government of lying. They lied with the VAT of the masks and with the VAT of the light; they lied with the remaining treasury of the municipalities; they lied when they appropriated the 25 billion VAT of the autonomous communities, which now the Supreme Court obliges them to return; and they lied saying that they were not going to raise taxes to the middle class or to the working class. So who is going to pay the increase in the registration tax, the inheritance tax, the donation tax, the diesel tax, the insurance premium tax, the sugary beverage tax, the plastic tax, the tax on air tickets, the abolition of the joint tax reduction, the impact of the Tobin tax, the impact of the Google tax, the rise in domestic diesel, the rise in light, the introduction of road tolls or, lastly, the elimination of the reduced and super-reduced rates of VAT? Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we are facing a fiscal hell. Gentlemen of the Government, no longer lie, this rise in taxes is suffered by the middle class, the working class and the most disadvantaged, because these taxes are paid regardless of the level of income. And to say that Spain has a negative income differential in relation to the European Union, taking into account only the fiscal pressure, lacks rigour and is a lack of respect for the sacrifice made by Spanish taxpayers in pointing them to Europe as insolidaries. Will Mr Sánchez be able to look into the eyes of a self-employed person or the worker of a company who every day strives to earn his livelihood at a time as difficult as this, and tell him that he pays few taxes and that he is insolidary? Moreover, will you be able to tell him when your Government does not give any examples of austerity by maintaining twenty-two ministries and more than 1200 advisors, and that it wastes the money from our taxes, for example, by subsidizing with 53 million euros to the Plus Ultra airline that only has one operating aircraft? Look, yes, a better index than the fiscal pressure is the one that measures the fiscal effort, which in addition to the collection and GDP takes into account the per capita income and the size of the population of each country, and with this indicator - and compared to the rest of the OECD countries - we find that Spain is among the first five countries that make the most fiscal effort. Therefore, let us not be fooled, what this government is trying to achieve is to crucify itself with more taxes by making Europe an excuse. But, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there is an alternative; against this confiscationist and interventionist model of Pedro Sánchez is the model of the governments of freedom and prosperity of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] We have already saved Spain from socialist ruin twice and we will do it again. You know that we have put forward numerous proposals that would enable us to reactivate our economy and generate employment. Proposals that will include new contributors to this tax effort, increase collection and avoid the fiscal hack proposed by this Government. Proposals that have unfortunately been rejected by Mr Sánchez, who has chosen radicalism, chaos and confrontation rather than moderation, order and sense of state. But the Spaniards are already fed up with that disgovernment and are pushing for a change in the political cycle. The Community of Madrid has said it loudly on 4 May with the electoral baton of the Socialist Party, and Pedro Sánchez checks it every time he steps on the street. Pedro Sánchez, who knows that his stage at the head of the government is nearing its end...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u248	Mr. Bass Corugeira, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u249	The corporal. ... because the citizens are already very clear that the only guarantee alternative to avoid the ruin of Spain is undoubtedly our president Pablo Casado, who will be the next president of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u250	For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It should be concluded after listening to Mr Figaredo that we maintain diametrically opposed positions on the model of society, but it is more, that his model of society is antagonistic as that of the social majority of this country, and consequently it is logical that in fiscal policy we also maintain a totally opposite distance. With VOX it would have been impossible to agree on the 1978 Constitution, because most of its proposals are beyond constitutional limits, use its extremism to damage the democratic state, use economic ultra-liberalism to destroy the social state. The parliamentary group of the right-wing Carpetovétónica does not ignore that article 31 of the Constitution states that the Spaniards will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity, through a fair tax system, inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness. Nor do they know that in Spain fiscal pressure and tax revenues are lower than in the countries of our environment. In the euro area 7 points less pressure in our country and 4 points of public spending. It is not ignorance, but the yearning of the governments of eighty years ago, who were betting on a society subject to the privileges of a minority, in the face of European democratic societies, which were at the same time building the welfare state, in which equal opportunities drew inclusive and cohesive societies. VOX, like the People's Party, want - the latter when it is in opposition - to lower taxes. All the Spaniards? No, only the highest income, because its maximum is the elimination of taxes that tax wealth and wealth, less public income and therefore set up a minimum state. The minimum state is a return to the past for the majority of Spaniards that we already exceeded in 1978, a minimum state so that public education will cease to be the social elevator and the largest factory of equality since the adoption of the Constitution or that the university will not be available to all. Spain's biggest revolution in the last 40 years has been education thanks to the Socialist governments. A minimum state so that health does not protect everyone from a system of public foresight. For VOX, as for PP, it would be more advisable that health will be provided from the private. That is their great goal, to put the public-health system on the market in the private economy, but how many Spaniards could afford with their resources a coronary operation or a kidney transplant? How many Spaniards could afford private care with their resources when a pandemic such as the COVID-19 is plagued? Who would have accessed the respirators in the spring of 2020? Who could have cost a prolonged stay in the ICU? When someone enters a Spanish hospital, they don't ask him about the current account, but what ailment he has. No one gets billed on the way out, because we all pay our taxes. You pay for what you have, you receive for what you need. That is the greatness of the Spanish public health system. [[Applauds]] A minimum state to end the public pension system, be it the market that provides pensions. In other words, a private pension system. Well, let the Spaniards ask the Chileans how that system works. A minimum state for the powerful to impose the labor relations system. VOX defends what the PP already led to the BOE in the 2012 reform: job insecurity, wage devaluation and easy dismissal. That's the VOX program. For VOX and the PP, the state should only be to socialize the losses, or the day of Filomena's drunkenness or the day of a global economic crisis or pandemic, but those days cannot be invented out of nowhere a state. It must be operational for three hundred and sixty-five days of the year because we always need it underfunded. Ladies and gentlemen, the best instrument to end inequality is a tax policy, progressive and sufficient, which therefore responds to fiscal justice. We already know that inequality and despair are the gateway to the far right in Europe and Spain. You, Mr de VOX and the PP, go against the current of the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, the European Central Bank, the OECD and the Biden Administration. For this reason, we will vote no for the ultra-right motion, because a country without just and progressive taxes is a private, elitist club, but it is not a democracy of free and equal citizens. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u252	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2020, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION: - REPORT ON THE COMPLIANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE CAMERA FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2020, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 31.1.2 OF THE REGULATION. [[File number 023/000002]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u253	We move on to the debate on the report on the implementation of the House's budget for the financial year 2020, in accordance with Rule 31.1.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The second secretary of the Bureau has the floor for a summary of the report.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u254	Report on the implementation of the Congress of Deputies' budget for the financial year 2020. In accordance with the principle of budgetary autonomy as enshrined in Article 72(1) of the Constitution and in accordance with Article 31.1(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, the report on the implementation of the House's budget for 2020, the general outlines of which are set out below, is presented to the plenary. The budget exercise of the Congress of Deputies for 2020 was carried out in accordance with Article 134(4) of the Constitution, under a situation of extension of the General Budgets of the State for 2018, approved by Law 6/2018 of 3 July, in which the budget of the House was integrated with an overall amount of 86,983,110 euros, which represented 0.03% of the General Budgets of the State. On 29 September 2020, the Bureau of the House authorised the addition of €4,277,000 from the Remnant Fund to the House's budget, and the budget of the Congress of Deputies for 2020 was consolidated in the amount of €91,260,110. In addition, several credit transfers approved by the Bureau of the House at its meetings on 9 June and 29 September 2020 were requested during the financial year 2020 for a total amount of EUR 685 500. Of the total amount of consolidated appropriations, those actually committed amounted to EUR 80,840,670.14, representing an implementation of 88,58 % of the consolidated budget, bringing the uncommitted balance to EUR 10,419,439.86, representing 11,42 % of the budget. Of the total appropriations committed in the financial year 2020, EUR 75,587,017.58 were paid during the same period, and payments amounting to EUR 5,278,642.96 were made during 2020, the amount of outstanding payments as at 31 December 2020 resulting from obligations for the financial year and made between 1 January and 31 March 2021. At the end of the financial year the cash balance was EUR 24 990.40. Congress Hall of Deputies, May 12, 2021.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u255	In order to establish a position, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u256	Thank you, President. I'll try to be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying that surely all those present have ever heard. I mean, if you want to meet someone, watch how he treats the waiter. Well, I don't come here to highlight how well or ill-educated any of these are. However, when I see how the Congress of Deputies treats waiters and waitresses, that saying comes to my head. All of this I say because, as everyone knows, with the arrival of the pandemic Congress reduced its face-to-face activity, and that led to a decrease in many of the services provided here, such as restoration. However, it is clear that the activity in this Parliament has been resumed for months and, despite this, the workers in this house continue to suffer totally unacceptable situations. To this day, there are female members of the House who are still in ERTE's position and, as a result, are not receiving a full salary, and this seems to us to be unfair, denigrating and classist treatment. Have we not paid the full salary of the Members of Parliament? Why don't they and they? Do we not continue to need the work done by waiters, cleaning workers, ushers, administrative staff and a long time and so on to make the operation of this House possible? Why are we penalizing them? What is being done with these unacceptable workers. The budget of the Congress of Deputies for the financial year 2020, as has just been said, had a total amount of more than 86 million euros, a non-minor amount. There is no possible justification for this unfortunate behavior. In view of the figures in this House's budget, it would be very easy to demagogue, but honestly I say to you that this is not the intention of my parliamentary group. The only objective of my intervention here today, from this rostrum, is to bring this unjust situation to an end. And it's not an anecdote, it's a matter of principles: if we get the whole salary, so are the workers. There are many of us, and I include myself, who week after week fill our mouths defending the working class from this atrium. But if we want to be minimally credible, we should remember that the working class is not something abstract or ethereal, but ordinary people who sell their labor force in exchange for a newspaper. We are surrounded by women workers, because they are the ones who make the system work, also the Chambers of Parliament. Let us be consistent and put an end to this ignominy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-05-12-CD210512.u257	Thank you so much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and thirty-five minutes in the afternoon.
