ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mr Pablo Casado Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, let us applaud a bitter day for the democratic history of Spain 1. [[Rumors]] Mr Sánchez, in the election debate he deceived millions of Spaniards. He said, "I do not covenant with independenceists, it is a lie; false is false, it is never, it is not no." But he didn't just say this, he also promised not to pardon the prisoners of the trial, who would bring Puigdemont to justice and who will grieve with 1 The President of the Government was received on his arrival in the Chamber with the applause of the Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who stood up. Incarceration of illegal referendums. You came to power supported by a lie and held yourself in that power with a massive deception. Yesterday he crossed the Rubicon, yesterday he cast the fate of Spain into the hands of those who want to destroy it, disarming our rule of law. He's moved from the Frankenstein pact with Podemos to the Dracula pact with the separatists. He prefers to become one of them to maintain power, even if he is already dead electorally. He talks about respecting justice, but he pulls out his veil and sword to stick it in his back. He talks of concord and reunion as he tramples on the law and the Constitution, which guarantee them. He talks about public utility - when the only utility is his private one - to get nine criminals out of jail in exchange for you not getting them out of Moncloa. And he talks to that cursi rhetorical, second-transitional, new-country superpower. But who do you think to talk about a new Spain with one hundred and twenty seats, which is the worst election result of a president in the democratic history of Spain? [[Applauds]] We like this country, we like this Spain; what we do not like is you and your Government. We will not allow them to decide by the back door what it is for all Spaniards to decide. Respect this Parliament, do not treat us as a tool of its opera bufa, and answer the nation why it has betrayed its oath to defend the national unity and equality of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Casado, for these very constructive speeches that you bring us to this House every Wednesday. [[Rumors]] I am not going to enter into your provocations or your disqualifications, because when you feel isolated it is when the real married Paul really comes out: the faulty one, the one with the insults, the one with the disqualifications. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that it is no longer a matter of insulting the Presidency of the Government again with the 'you who believe you are?'; at least, Your Honor, I have more confidence in this Parliament than you do in your parliamentary initiatives. [[Applauds]] But the question is no longer that because this is every Wednesday missing, insulting, disqualifying, the problem is that you already insult everyone, you insult the Catalan bishops, who have expressed their support for the measure of grace; it also insults the Catalan entrepreneurs, who are also in favour of this measure of grace in the face of what you are defending. You have used expressions to refer to entrepreneurs, who give you more turns in life than you have shown, Your Honor, in your political career, and you call them silver subsidized by European funds, Your Honor; trade unions, associations, entrepreneurs... [[applause]] They say they don't represent anyone. You, who are so constitutionalist, have not read Article 7 of the Constitution and the role that employers and trade unions have to play? [[Applauds]] You speak, Your Honor - with these modern expressions you use - of courteous lobbying of entrepreneurs; social dialogue equates it with the tennis club. But, Your Honor, is that democracy as it sees it? At the height of the peaks you have come to say that the People's Party is due to the Spaniards, that its shareholders are the Spaniards. And those of us who don't think like you, where do we come from, Your Honor, from Mars? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u6	Finally, what I want to say to you, Your Honor, is that this is a courageous measure, it is a restorative measure, it is a measure in favour of harmony and coexistence, it is a measure that will reduce political and territorial discord, and that is fundamental, Your Honor, to regain coexistence in Catalonia. [[protests]] [[protests continue]] [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u7	Mr. Married.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u8	Where is the Supreme, the Catalan constitutionalists to whom there is not a single word? Look, I'm telling you something: Junqueras spoke yesterday about the weakness of the state, Cuixart of defeating Spain and Aragonès of amnesty and independence. The indisputable weight of which his infamous report speaks is the thirteen seats of the Republican Left in exchange for subscribing to Spain in a break-up room. You have burned the ships and passed to the edge of nationalism that abhors Spain. He's placed himself on the wrong side of the story, which he won't acquit. If you have any dignity left, you should resign today and submit this decision to the judgment of the Spanish, Mr. Sánchez, because you have deceived in your electoral word... [[protests]] [[Protests continue.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u10	... has breached his constitutional oath and is deceiving this House. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, standing]] - OF THE DEPUTATE GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK TO DO AFTER THE GOVERNMENT'S INDIVIDUALS APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS? [[File number 180/00610]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u11	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. What plans does the Government have after the pardons? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u13	Quiet, please. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. What plans does the Republican Left have after the government's measure of grace? What plans does the Government of the Government of Catalonia have after the action taken by the Government? [[Rumors]] [[Applauds]] I also believe that the approach that the Government of Spain has taken from the outset, with this meeting agenda, which I had the opportunity to share with the then President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr Torra, is public and well-known. That is therefore the agenda on which the Government of Spain will move in dialogue with the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Moreover, I will tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, this reflection that is being done - yesterday I was listening to the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia talking again about self-determination -, look, it is no longer just a question of the fact that it is not constitutional, it is a question that we cannot continue to fraction, breaking down Catalan society. We have to start joining Catalan society. At the Teatro del Liceo the other day I said something that I believe deeply, ladies and gentlemen, and that is that the union based on the law, on democratic legality, makes our country stronger, but above all the community of affections, respect and coexistence seems to me to make Spanish society and the whole of Catalan society even stronger. Therefore, Your Honor, in Spanish democracy everyone can defend the ideas he considers. I am not going to convince you that the best solution for Catalonia is not independence but union with all the peoples of Spain, the only thing I am going to ask of you and Junts per Catalunya - those who are right now leading the Generalitat of Catalonia - is for you to defend the constitutional pact, democratic legality and the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u15	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, the check-in isn't about Esquerra, huh? I wish. But just a moment. Mr. Married, I think you've described pardons as unconstitutional. It is not known, article 62 of the Constitution. See? This is what happens when you are given a master's degree, which you don't know the lesson. [[Laughter and applause]] Look, Mr President, I personally thank you for the courage before the jury, but the question is whether it is courage or whether it is necessary, because you just came to the elections more than two years ago talking about prosecution and today you are talking about politics. And everyone knows what we and we like to talk about politics, so, understandably, a few words are enough. But the question is, what now, what now, what now? Because there's a lot of repression still in Catalonia and outside of Catalonia. Just remember the children of Altsasu. [[Protests.-A honourable Member: Clown!]] Calm down. For us and for us there is a great deal to go through in terms of the Court of Auditors, the Criminal Code, the judiciary or the law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u17	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u18	The question is whether for you too there is much to go on because - a warning - you will not be a real left-wing government as long as there is only one person in this country who is threatened, beaten and imprisoned for manifesting peacefully, and that, in this country, still happens. And for those who have doubts, left or right, about what is going on, Ernest Lluch, today, would you be happy or not? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u19	I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rufián, I thank you, of course, for your kind words. [[Rumors]] I mean it without any kind of sarcasm. It is curious, Mr Casado, because they argue that this government is doing it behind Parliament's back and that it is outstanding that they have led two parliamentary initiatives against pardons and that 190 seats a week ago and 192 seats yesterday have been expressed in favour of pardons, as has happened precisely in this House. [[Applauds]] Mr. Rufián, let's build agreement, let's build coexistence. Political and territorial discord is a scourge for coexistence, for progress and for the economic recovery of our country, and both Catalonia and Spain deserve a new time after this pandemic. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u21	Please, I ask for silence and respect from the speaker. Mr. Matarí, silence, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: AFTER ACTING IN THE LICE OF THIS MONDAY, THE GOVERNMENT WILL DO POLITICAL? [[File number 180/00607]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u22	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u23	President, it would be good for us to know what the real Pedro Sánchez is, who says that he esteems us, who announces that he will arrest President Puigdemont, who proposes to vote in referendum on a new statute for Catalonia, who announces that he will again incorporate in the Penal Code that making referendums will be illegal or who is in favour of the judgment of 1 October which condemns more than a hundred years' imprisonment of the Government of Catalonia for putting ballots. Imagine that we are doing the exercise of believing that the Pedro Sánchez real is Monday's in the Liceu. How to translate your Monday speech into politics? Because it should be clear that granting pardons to political prisoners does not resolve the political conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u24	Mr President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u25	I, the only thing I can agree with is your last sentence, Your Honor. Indeed, the measure of grace is not going to solve what is happening in Catalonia. I believe that this must be an exercise of deep reflection by all the parties involved in Catalan society. But, look, you're talking about my speech on Monday and you're talking about yesterday's Council of Ministers. That is where the will of the Government of Spain and, in particular, mine is reflected, which is precisely to open up a new time of harmony, coexistence and reparation in Catalonia. And I believe that the time has come now, that the time is the propitious one. First, because there is a final judgment of the Supreme Court, which, by the way, the Government in its letter does not question. Secondly, because civil society itself, which denigrates and denigrates Mr Casado, has promoted and promoted this request for pardons, and we, as a government, are obviously obliged to hold this debate in the Council of Ministers. By the way, we have done so not only by taking into account the positive things that this measure of grace can bring, but also by knowing what adverse effects it might actually have on not taking into account these measures of grace. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, because after this pandemic, I believe that all of us, both Catalan and Spanish society as a whole, have learned the importance of living together, working together, that our fate is absolutely interrelated and, therefore, among all of us, we must make an exercise of empathy with those who suffer the health and economic and social consequences of this terrible pandemic. And now we want economic recovery - by the way, today we are going to reach 15 million people vaccinated with double standards and, therefore, we are looking at a final horizon for this pandemic - we have now approved the recovery, transformation and resilience plans as a result of the extraordinary work that the Government has done with the European Commission, and now that we have all that scenario, Your Honor, what the Government is doing is proposing a road map for the reunification of Catalan society with itself and of Catalan society with the whole of Spanish society. There'll be a lot of people who have repairs. All I ask is understanding and magnanimity because the challenge and the challenge are worth it; the challenge and the challenge are the coexistence, harmony and union of the peoples of Spain. And that is guaranteed by the law, as we saw in 2017, but above all, it is precisely that spirit of respect, affection and coexistence that we all need. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u26	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u27	We are talking about the Liceu and the Council of Ministers; we are also talking about the Council of Europe. On Monday, at the same time as you were in Catalonia, the Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted by a majority a demolishing report for the Spanish State, a report that gives visibility to a reality that, here in the Kingdom, has all endeavoured to hide, a reality that cannot be seen to have existed and that does not exist: in Spain there are exiled political prisoners, there is repression, there is a macro-cause against independence and there is a merger of political activity with the judiciary, and this report requires Spain to reverse this situation. If you really esteem the citizens of Catalonia and what you say is not propaganda, then I understand that you are willing to move forward with the amnesty law, to accept the return of the exiles, to end the repression, also the economic; to stand on the Scottish road, to make a referendum agreed and to respect the outcome of this referendum. President Sánchez, if not, what you did on Monday was announce the reissue of the 78th Regime. I end with the part of the poem of Miquel Martí i Pol that on Monday you forgot to read: 'We can / dempeus another time and I felt / the sight of all solemn and clear. / We cry out who we are and who everyone listens to. / And in the end, that each one is dressed / as well as well pleases him, and out!, / that everything is to be done and everything is possible. ' Thank you very much. - OF THE DEVELOPED GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO DESIGN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SEMINAR FIRST AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT IS THE REAL REASON AFTER THE DECISION OF THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS TO GIVE INDULTS TO SECTORS? [[File number 180/00608]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u28	Questions to the First Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u29	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, you are no longer in high school, this is the reunion, you are insatiable and you know it, just as Mr Rufián knows perfectly well that it is necessary. Madam Vice-President - I open quotes -: The independenceists are not to be trusted as long as they want to break the territorial unity of Spain; the independenceists are trying to break this country. I close quotes. These statements of such apparent constitutionalist firmness are yours. You uttered them a year and a half ago, in the middle of the election campaign, when the Socialist Party lied to all the Spaniards like no other party has ever lied to its fellow citizens. The hemerotheque of this government's deceptions could fill the library in Alexandria. I quote another statement from you, it's after the trial. I open quotes: As the Supreme Court ruling says, the independence leaders lied and deceived Catalonia by proposing a dead end that is neither constitutional nor legal. Mrs Calvo, the condemned and pardoned independenceist leaders do not deceive anyone; before in prison and now outside, they welcome their coup attempt and, moreover, reaffirm themselves in the crime of breaking Spain's national sovereignty, the foundations of coexistence and territorial integrity. I ask you: What are the real reasons for granting pardons? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u30	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra, the real reasons are in writing, they are part of a dossier that was processed yesterday and approved in the Council of Ministers. They're public and notorious. By the way, it is the first time that a pardon is motivated, reasoned and substantiated. You can read it perfectly. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u32	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u33	Madam Vice-President, we were hoping for you a little more courage and for you to be aware here in Parliament of the real reasons for these pardons. By the way, files that no one has yet had access to. We'll ask for them. Madam Vice-President, did you not hear Mr Aragonès say yesterday that the prisoners go out with the reinforced will to build a Catalan republic or say that it is time for amnesty and the agreed referendum? Is this the way Pedro Sánchez tells us about? The pardons are the clearest proof of injustice, inequity and personal exploitation to follow at all costs in the Moncloa. The currency they have dealt with is the humiliation of the Catalan constitutionalists and the rest of the Spanish. I end with another statement from you, from 2018. Let me remind you, Mrs Calvo: A democratic government does not release prisoners. Today the nine are on the street! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u34	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Gamarra, if they stopped doing politics with the guts and returned to the neurons, they would come out of Columbus and from the discourse of the Spanish far right, from which they do not come out because they are in loop. [[rumors]] I will tell you where the Catalan constitutionalists are, those to which Mr Casado referred. Do you know where they are? By voting for the Catalan Socialists, who won the elections in Catalonia. [[applause]] There you are and to whom you never address, to whom you do not propose anything at all, to the point that you have disappeared together with your citizens' partners. If you didn't have to talk about pardons, what would you talk about? [[Rumors]] They would have nothing to talk about, because Catalonia does not offer any way out, because the rest of Spain does not offer anything other than the continuous sham. And I don't take a single word from those you mentioned here because they're mine. This Government does not put a single line of that sentence or of the work of the Supreme Court in check. Independenceists are what they are and we know it, but do you know what the difference is? That you made independence per minute and we, as a government, have managed to cover Catalonia in Spain. [[applause]] That's the difference. It's called politics and it's called neurons, Mrs. Gamarra; neurons! - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE [[Applauds]] AND MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHAT VALUE DOES THE RESPECT FOR NATIONAL DignITY HAVE FOR THIS GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/00611]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u36	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u37	Thank you, President. Madam Vice-President, you have come to the elections defending theoretical principles. Today we know that these principles were contrary to what they thought. If they had revealed what they really thought, no one would have voted for them. But they didn't let forty-eight hours pass by to betray his word. You, in an amazing degree of cynicism, came to say that that had happened in your previous life. And indeed, it was Pedro Sánchez who in his previous life - that is, before the elections - promised that there would never again be pardons for political reasons. He went on to say: The grounds for pardon are assessed and protected from the interference of political power over the judiciary, and they will always have to rely on the initial request of the court issuing the sentence. What a thing, isn't it? And now not only does he approve of them, but he also claims something as simple as his obligation to comply and enforce the law. Also José Luis Ábalos in his previous life vehemently rejected the pardons: For there to be pardons first there must be repentance - he said -. Today he asks, "Who asks? Doesn't he give you even a hint of shame? Do you sleep well at night knowing that you have betrayed the nation in such essential things? I understand that you have no respect for your own word, but does respect for national dignity have any value for this Government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u38	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, to which nation do you refer?, to which one represents this government, legal and legitimate?, to which one has every day the parliamentary support to do his government action?, to which does that nation refer? For that nation, of course, we are not lacking in any way. Now I'll tell you which nation is yours. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u40	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u41	Madam Vice-President, although some socialists count up to seven or eight nations, in Spain there is only one nation, which is the Spanish nation! Let it look like a lie that we have to remember every day! [[Applauds]] But that does not hide the truth, Madam Vice-President, and the truth is that yesterday was a very sad day for Spain, because you have betrayed not us but your own voters and all the Spaniards who believed in the system. You're generating an uneasiness in the nation as a whole, yes. And you know what? Let them applaud only their own. Have you not noticed this morning that you do not applaud even those you are trying to benefit? And you know why? Because it is impossible to satisfy those who make dissatisfaction a way of life, they will never satisfy them and the only thing they are getting is to extend their permanence in power a little more, but not much, because behind they have already told them what they want it to come, not enough with pardons, they want amnesty, they want referendum, they want self-determination, they want independence. Where are you going to put the line, Madam Vice President? Will the entire legislature be accusing the opposition of effectively blocking a path of non-return, which is absolutely pernicious for the Spanish nation? Don't you realize that you are doing irreparable harm to the nation as a whole? And don't tell me there are seven nations...! [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u42	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, how old and dangerous your speech is. You, radical conservatism, fascism, phylofascism, have been in this country for two hundred years distributing national cards, and do you know what that has been for the history of this country? [[rumors]] The continuing exiles of liberals, anti-fascists, Democrats, Republicans. Because today you have come to tell us the usual, but it is two hundred years saying, in front of a diverse country that supports the freedoms of all and the rights of all, that you have the monopoly of this country, that you are the owners of the word Spain, of the idea of the nation and that the others do not exist. It's old, it's dangerous! The only difference now is that it no longer hangs, no longer hangs! Forty-two years of sustained democracy, mature, diverse, with diversity of ideas and parties, no longer hangs! There are no Spaniards of good and evil!, you are not the owners of Spain!, everyone has his vision and his right to make politics! [[Applauds]] Old and dangerous, but it no longer hangs. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MARY GARCIA SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE SECOND AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT ELSE IS THERE ON THE RECOVERY PLAN? [[File number 180/00602]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u44	Question addressed to the second Vice-President and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. You too, Mrs Calviño, are part of that collegiate body called the Council of Ministers, which has become the forgiving power, in the face of the vengeful and vengeful power of the judiciary; that is the reality. This is the pardon of the mouths; we will all be silenced by removing the mask and giving us dentists for all, but lie with all their teeth, lie with all their teeth, as they have lied with the pardon and as you lied when you said that there would be no economic crisis. You turned Pedro Solbes, the insolvent, into a sorcerer's apprentice; you, of course, have quietly overcome him. You are the maximum expression of the two Enes of the Socialist Party, the typical catechism of the Socialist Party, first denial and then negligence; first, they deny the crisis and then the most absolute negligence. We are the first, Madam Vice-President, the first to destroy jobs, the first to destroy wealth, the first to balance budgets, the first to generate public debt. You have replaced national sovereignty with national sovereignty, and with pride nothing is achieved. If at least they were proud and we were the first, go ahead, but with pride, I insist, nothing is built. That said, now comes the recovery plan. By the way, its partners, the Eurosceptics, have now fallen into the pot of Europe. Those who were suspicious of Europe are now happy with the European funds, and the Recovery Fund came and when it was sent it was brimming with mistakes. You're all wrong in yourself. That mistake of the Minister of Development, who said that the imposition of tolls was merely a technical reflection. But if you already have set date of establishment! Or when Minister Montero - Maria Jesús Montero, the Minister of Finance - said that they were not going to raise taxes. Why do they not recognize that socialism has a fiscal ideology and that they want to raise taxes? Why do they systematically deny it? Wouldn't it be quieter to have an ontological and ideological discussion with you? You have consistently denied it, Mrs. Montero. And thirdly, we were told that first the benefit for joint taxation would disappear and then it would be maintained. Read page 341 of the plan they have sent, because they are still thinking of making joint taxation disappear, and that will penalise 3.4 million Spaniards and, of course, would mean a tax benefit reduction of an average of 1100 euros per person. Having said that, Minister, how many more mistakes are there in the Recovery Plan? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u46	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u47	Thank you very much, President. Mr Garcés, as you know very well, last week the European Commission approved Spain's recovery plan. Together with that of Portugal, it is the first recovery plan that was also approved with the highest rating. The European Commission points out that it is a positive plan that can increase the potential for future growth, the opportunities to create quality jobs and address a profound transformation that will make us a more sustainable, more inclusive country for the future. It is very good news and I think it is also coming at the right time, because vaccination is progressing very quickly and very agile, citizens have positive expectations, entrepreneurs have positive expectations, all national and international analysts consider Spain to be one of the countries leading economic recovery not only in Europe but globally. In short, a new period is opened, a new phase is opened. I ask you once again to leave your destructive loop and get on the train of the future of Spain. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u48	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u49	The only destructive loop is the one you have represented over the past two years. But, look, you already asked him as if he were a normal citizen: can you tell me when the aid will reach small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people? [[A lady MP: There, there!]] This is going to be a country of certain fat cows and many skinny sheep, and those sheep are already asking for help and you don't give them an answer. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u50	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u51	Thank you very much, President. For over a year now, since the pandemic arrived, we have put in place a series of unprecedented measures to support the productive fabric, the incomes of families and workers in our country. These measures have been effective, and that allows us to have a good basis for recovery. Now let's start implementing this unprecedented recovery plan, which opens up an absolutely extraordinary, historic opportunity to build a better future. It is also a formidable challenge that requires us all to move in the same direction. So, once again, I'm holding hands with you and I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that you, as I said a moment ago, get on the train of the future, because in this country project there is no one left, we can all contribute and we must all contribute to meeting the expectations and hopes of the Spanish citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND CHAIRPERSON FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHY DIDN'T YOU AUTHORIZE THE SECOND CHARGE OF BBG CYSTERNS AND GOVERNMENT? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/00597]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u52	Questions to the fourth Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u53	Thank you, President. Vice President, on the other hand. His ministry knows the situation of the Bay of Biscay tank loader, a plant with a single loader that has been saturated for more than a year, and thus emerges from the reports of the system's discharge managers. Moreover, the demand for cargo of tanks in general will increase due to the decarbonization of the marine and terrestrial transport, which is also motivating a greater consumption of natural gas, in particular in BBG, because it knows that There is a bunkering project in the port of Bilbao and also for the supply to ships of the marine line Bilbao-south of England. This situation has long been revealed before the ministry and, in order to meet the growing demand, the authorization of a second shipper was requested. As of today, we have no answer. That is why we ask you why the Government has not already authorized this second shipper in Bay of Biscay.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u54	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u55	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Sagastizabal, for your question. I think it is a question that illustrates well the difficult balance that the government has to achieve in the context of investment and infrastructure planning in order to avoid overloading with unnecessary costs and building underutilised infrastructure and, at the same time, to be sensitive to the evolution of those demands that may occur during a planning cycle. As you know, that second loader is not included in the current gas planning. As you also know, in view of this circumstance, we asked the regulator to make a statement and recommended that we jointly clarify all the possibilities before investing, before introducing what has never been done, which is a new gas infrastructure during the planning period, and thus avoid circumstances such as those we have experienced in the past with other types of infrastructure. Therefore, by keeping ourselves open to see how we can make progress on this issue, we believe it is appropriate to follow this recommendation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u56	Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u57	Thank you, President. The truth is that there is not a single technical reason not to use this second loader. We agree that we need to balance, but both the saturation of the plant and the increase in demand have been demonstrated, and this is reflected in the CNMC report. The CNMC has said that there is a need, that there is a critical situation of this loader. In addition, the cargo manager has also demonstrated and corroborated the need for this second loader. Vice President, not allowing or slowing down this second shipper means not meeting the existing demand, losing competitiveness and commercial activity in favor of foreign plants that are already receiving this increase in demand. We have the example of Belgium, flows are moving there. However, allowing a second shipper in Vizcaya means responding to present and future demand, more investment, increasing economic activity, much more employment and, of course, improving competitiveness. BBG for us is not a simple project, it is a strategic project, a country project, because you know that greater economic activity also involves greater economic resources to deal with the welfare state. Vice-President, this is not a technical issue, it is a question of political will. It's in your hands. All reports support it. That is why we ask you not to leave this authorization in limbo, not to deny Vizcaya or Euskadi the opportunity that in economic terms, in terms of employment and in industrial terms represents this second shipper. We should not miss the opportunities that the market is offering us at a time of current crisis such as that of COVID by losing activity, not encouraging and, of course, discouraging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u58	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Sagastizabal, nothing further from our intention than to inhibit the potential growth of the online economy with a complex decarbonisation process. At the same time, nothing further than our intention to burden the gas-using industry with costs and in general the people who also consume gas in their homes at a time when the price of gas is particularly high, but I believe that the proper reading of that report to which you referred is precisely to rescue those recommendations that the Commission itself pointed out as regulatory improvements, facilitating management mechanisms to avoid congestion in power stations, maximising the use of existing infrastructures, penalising even those who do not take advantage of them, which is part of the rights - little used - of the current shipper, or facilitating in management an increase in the bunkering that is already taking place or the improvement of existing facilities. We are open, we will remain open and I think that if this is not enough, we will have to propose, as you say, a change in planning that has never occurred before. We do have experience of overinvestment in infrastructure with extremely high costs for end-users. Therefore flexibility, but prudence as well. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President FORTY-FOURTH MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT IS THE MINISTER PROVIDED FOR TO COMPLETE THE RESOLUTION AGREED ON THE PLENARY OF THE CONGRESS ON OCTOBER 27, BY MAJORITY, TO GUARANTEE WATER SUPPLY TO THE MUNICIPIES IN THE ENVIRONMENT OF THE BAHIA DE SANTANDER? [[SANTANDER, SANTA CRUZ DE BEZANA, CAMARGO AND ASTILLERO]] [[File number 180/00594]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u60	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u61	Madam Vice-President, last week the President of the Government, to a question on this subject, replied that we would certainly reach an agreement. This agreement was already reached last October in this plenary session and was to urge the Government to agree to the transfer from the Ebro marsh to Santander Bay of up to 4.99 cubic metres of water per year when necessary, and at the same time to sign a special authorization for the transfer of up to 26 cubic hectares. Well, the transfer of up to 4.99 remains unprocessed when over the last ten years it has always been necessary, every year, with an annual average of 3.5. That is why I ask the minister if she intends to comply with what was agreed in this Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u62	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u63	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Mazón. In fact, we know that this is a sensitive issue and I would like to take this opportunity to say with all force that neither Santander, nor its bay, Almería, nor Badajoz, nor Barcelona, nor any city in Spain will be left without water, provided that there are measures to ensure the supply of water, and I insist that neither, as has been demonstrated by this government in the last two summers. You pose a different thing and it is if the 26 cubic hectometers that already have a special authorization can be added another 4,99 cubic hectometers, not so much because of an additional need for water, but because of a cost problem. I think we are at the right time to raise these kinds of questions, because we are precisely in the phase of opening up to public information all the watershed hydrological plans for this third planning cycle and, as the President of the Government told you very well last week, I am sure that we will reach an agreement. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u64	Mr. Mazón, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u65	Minister, you know that's not agreed and you don't have any virtuality; you don't want to lose track and change the subject with other matters. It will be necessary to pump from the beginning and always the 4 cubic hectometers of the cantabrian rivers to return this to a 540 swamp that is in Cantabria. It will be to throw the money, waste energy uselessly, pollute and strain the ecological flow of our rivers. Every summer Santander needs water because the Pas river doesn't give more of itself and runs out of ecological flow. In addition, gentlemen of the Government, I appeal to solidarity, which is their obligation. The regions through which the Ebro passes collect more than 5000 cubic hectometers every year; Bilbao and Tarragona, outside the basin, more than 100 each, and Cantabria do not even allow 5 of a 540 swamp that is in its territory and does not harm anyone. Small transfers - up to 5 cubic hectometres -, in case of need, as is our case, is the responsibility of the Government; it is in the law and has already passed all legal procedures last August, when you removed them from the agenda of the Council of Ministers and Congress corrected it. Water management is one of humanity's challenges for decades to come, and if logic and common sense are not applied, we are wrong. To deal with it requires having these qualities and some flexibility and sensitivity. Where there was a solution, you are creating a problem, also for your Government, as well as an affront to Cantabria. In addition, he is failing to meet the commitments he made to me three months ago. We will continue to insist until the Government does justice and respects the agreements of this House. This was just said 10 minutes ago by your president. [[Mr. Martínez Oblanca: All right!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u66	Madam Fourth Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u67	Mr Mazón, I think you are talking about flexibility, you are talking about supply, you are talking about access to Ebro water. It does not pose a quantity problem because, in fact, it has 26 hectares already insured and asks for additional 4,99, and I understand, as I said before, that the problem is not so much that it is additional, but the order and the way in which it helps to move, to transfer that water from one basin to another. I am convinced that we are going to reach an agreement - I told you so - and I am convinced that we are going to do it on the highest level of sensitivity and covering Santander's needs, including its concern about the cost coverage currently assumed by the cantabrian government in order to be able to access that water resource. But the space in which that agreement has to be reached is in the watershed hydrological plans. When an extraordinary contribution has been required - apart from any forecast - in the current plan, an extraordinary contribution has been made, as we did last year in the previous hydrological plan. So, don't worry, you have the full flexibility and commitment of the ministry to be able to guide this decision right now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MARIA TERESA LÓPEZ ÁLVAREZ, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EXTERNAL MATTERS, EUROPEAN UNION AND COOPERATION: WHAT DO I RISK THAT MARRUECES HAVE ENTRYED TO DECIDE ON THE LAST DAYS THAT 'CITIZES AND BETTER ARE OCCUPIED MARROCH CITIES'? [[File number 180/000600]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u68	Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation. Question by María Teresa López Álvarez, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u69	Thank you, President. Mrs González Laya, Morocco's claims about Ceuta and Melilla have been clear for many years, rather than forever, since Morocco became independent of France and Spain in 1956. I could do a very extensive chronology, but I only have two minutes. I should like to remind you that already in 1975 Morocco applied to Ceuta and Melilla on the UN Committee on Decolonization and that in 1987 Hassan II proposed the creation of a Spanish-speaking reflection cell on the future of Ceuta and Melilla. In 1994, new claims were made by the Alawite monarch over the two cities. In July 2002 Morocco ordered the occupation of the islet of Perejil, and in 2020 the Prime Minister of Morocco said that Ceuta and Melilla were Moroccans, such as the Sahara. Faced with such a threat, in which Morocco marks the times, on 17 May 2021 it meets and more than 10,000 Moroccan subjects invade Ceuta. Morocco opens its doors and Spain does not defend its homeland. Ninety illegals come in a minute. And there is more, on 24 May the Socialist leader of Morocco calls on his president, Pedro Sánchez, to discuss the future of Ceuta and Melilla. On June 12, last week, the Moroccan Lower House declared Ceuta an occupied Moroccan city and, at the same time, Spain is excluded from the meeting with the foreign ambassadors accredited in Rabat. Meanwhile, you are more concerned and concerned about climate change and establishing a feminist foreign policy, as you yourself defined last week. I guess I'd do it to get Mohamed VI out of the carcase. Today I asked him more seriously in his reply, because, in the face of so much blackmail and extortion from Morocco, the Government of Spain has adopted a low profile, not leading a single gesture in reference to the defense of the cities of Ceuta and Melilla. For the Government, therefore, what risk does it entail that Morocco has again said in recent days that Ceuta and Melilla are occupied Moroccan cities? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u70	Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u71	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Believe me when I tell you that I understand your genuine concern and that of the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla about sovereignty issues. And let me tell you that the sovereignty of Ceuta and Melilla is not at risk, it is not, it has not been and it will not be. Many things separate us, Your Honor, you and me, many, I think it is quite obvious, but, of course, what does not separate us is the Spanish sovereignty over Ceuta and Melilla. This is a time to unite, Your Honor, to unite, especially in matters of State, and this is certainly a question of State. That is why I believe that what is important now is discreet and effective diplomacy, and for it to be effective, Your Honor, it is best that you and I both defend sovereignty and that you and your group stand behind the government, which is defending it here, in Spain, in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u72	Mrs. Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u73	Look, feminist foreign minister, we don't want any more words, we want facts. What Morocco has done is a training mascot to finally get attached Ceuta and Melilla; and in that training it has seen a Government of Spain that does not take decisive action in defense of its sovereignty, which is the best example of the inconsistency and weakness of its foreign policy. The Government of Spain is being knocked out in the ring, it is being cornered receiving the continuous low blows from Morocco. Start by changing your diplomatic policy by setting limits on neighborhood relations and not tolerating a single attack more... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u75	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I was afraid that you would make a reply like the one you just made, which is anything but patriotic, because at the moment seeming disunity is what is least suited to us, and you know it quite well. But that doesn't matter, because as long as your intervention can encourage a speech of bad intentions and falsehoods, it goes well. Today, when you ask this question, you have not thought of the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla, who have clear, as we all have, that Spanish sovereignty over Ceuta and Melilla is not at risk and who have clear that this issue does not have to enter into the party game in our country. As far as the question of sovereignty is concerned, you are denouncing yourself, Your Honor. If I tell you that you are of a progressive formation, that you are modern, that you are feminist and that you are in favour of climate change, what would you say? That's not true, is it? It's more like the opposite. Well, look, with Ceuta and Melilla exactly the same thing happens: there is no doubt, no doubt about the fact that these two cities are Spain; there is no doubt that they are the external border of the European Union, and since there is no doubt, we are going to stop sowing fear and disunity, and we are going to do a... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON Jon IÑARRITU GARCIA, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: THE FREEDOM OF COVID-19 TESTS REQUIRED IN 'EU COVID DIGITAL CERTIFICATE' FOR ALL UNVACATED CITIZENS OR WITHOUT NATURAL IMMUNITY? [[File number 180/00595]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u77	Question addressed to the Minister for Health. Question by Mr Jon Iñarritu García, Member of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u78	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Darias, I would like to know whether the Government will ensure that the COVID tests required in the digital COVID certificate are free of charge for those who have not been vaccinated or who have antibodies because they have a natural immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u79	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u80	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. The COVID test regime will be the same as before the entry into force of the EU-COVID certificate. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u81	Mr. Iñarritu.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u82	Yes, Madam President. Ladies Darias, I have been disgusted, because we are experiencing positive news about the management of the COVID - the incidence is dropping rapidly, 35% of the population has already received the full vaccination schedule, from Saturday the mask will not be mandatory abroad and the COVID certificate has been launched - but, as you know, Monday began the summer and, with it, the vacation period and the trips. At the moment most of the population of the State is not vaccinated and there will be citizens who will need to carry out a COVID test to travel abroad as well as to certain places in the State, which, precisely in Spain, has a high cost. If we look at the fact that one of the sectors of the population that will travel the most is young people, those who have not been vaccinated by others, who will be the last and who at the same time have a low purchasing power, when they want to travel to some places they will have to leave a paston. The European Parliament asked for the COVID tests to be free of charge. The European Union has opened an aid line of EUR 100 million to lower the price of testing, but it is completely insufficient. And what's going on? That, whether or not, discrimination is occurring between those who have been vaccinated and those who have not, and among those who will have to disburse important and non-important economic figures to travel to some places. That is why I ask you, as long as the vaccination lasts and for a common sense, to take care of these costs. Other States of the European Union are already doing so. It is a matter of common sense and it will also last a few weeks, a few months, and if they do, they will end up with discrimination that is currently taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u83	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honour, as you are well aware, on 10 June last the Secretary-General of Digital Health appeared in this House and gave a very large amount of information and, of course, made himself available to your ladies and gentlemen to clarify how many issues had to do with this very important launch of the QUE-COVID digital certificate, because it is going to mean a turning point in what is going to be secure mobility throughout the European Union. As you know, we are talking about a simple, interoperable document, a document that believes that either you have received the full vaccination schedule, or you have passed the disease, or you have performed an active diagnostic test, both PCR and antigen test, which you are also admissible. As you said, in the trialogue before the adoption of the Rules of Procedure there was a party in which gratuity was included, but in the end, it was not so in the approved Rules of Procedure. However, as you have also pointed out, the Commission has announced aid of more than EUR 100 million. Our country has already said that it has an interest in such aid. Of course, if that is the case, we would be willing to study, because of the aid, what it would be like. But I do want to emphasise - it will allow me - the importance of the document, what it means for our country and what we have already done. In the time that Spain has advanced to the start-up - which is officially on July 1 - thanks to an important effort of the autonomous communities, which also issue it together with the Ministry of Health and soon the Ministry of Defence, we have issued more than two million certificates in record time. And we have advanced the start-up and participated with other pilot countries of the European Union in order to make it a reality since 7 June, and we are also receiving them from some countries, because not all the countries of the European Union issue them, as Spain does. We will therefore go hand in hand, we will be alert to such aid from the European Union - if so, we will be interested - and the situation may or may not be changed. But what I want to tell you is that the progress of unstoppable vaccinations is going like a shot, as I like to say; more than 30%, 31% already has a full schedule and we are going to follow. Today we will reach 15 million and before the end of the following month we will continue to reach all the milestones that we have proposed and that President Sánchez has pointed out. We will therefore be vigilant, dialogue and give maximum impetus to a document that is fundamental to ensuring safe mobility. We are gradually entering that new normality, vaccination is the essential weapon and mobility is an element, along with the end of the masks on the outside, that will be certifying that we are gradually approaching the end of the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MIGUEL ÁNGEL JEREZ JUAN, IN SUPPORT OF THE DEPUTY CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHAT ACTION DOES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE THINK TO ADOPTE TO COMPLY WITH THE PEDRO SÁNCHEZ PROMESS TO BRING THE PUIGDEMONT SPAIN TO BE JUDGED? [[File number 180/00603]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u85	Questions to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mr Miguel Ángel Jerez Juan, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Today nine prisoners will open the doors of their cells, the prison gate and remove their wives. They are not ordinary prisoners, they are nine sentenced to more than a hundred years in prison and they are for breaking up coexistence, for marginalizing the dissenter, for calling civil rebellion, for threatening the constitutional order, for declaring a republic impossible and for making people believe independence is the way. Today they will free those prisoners by believing that everything will disappear from the collective memory, but the Democrats will continue to have memory. They have forgiven them simply, without listening to the voice of that silent Catalonia that the only thing that asks is justice and asks for freedom. They were freed in exchange for nothing, pardoned for free. But independence is insatiable, Minister, insatiable in its ends; independence wants more and always wants it, and when it appreciates signs of weakness like yours it is when it becomes stronger. I regret to say, Minister, that with the granting of the pardon they have revived, empowered and strengthened the enemies of Spanish democracy. We only have to know if you are going to do it again with the fugitives who are hiding abroad, whether you are going to rehabilitate the fugitives from justice, whether you are going to prosecute them to put them at the disposal of the Spanish courts or whether you are going to let them escape once again. We will be attentive to your answer. In Waterloo, Puigdemont is also eager to know when his turn will come. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u87	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Jerez, thank you for your reflection and for your question. Look, yesterday the government, making use of its constitutional powers, partially pardons nine of the twelve convicted for some very serious events that occurred in September and October 2017. It's a partial pardon, as I know you know perfectly well. They had been in prison for three years and seven months. Their absolute disqualification is maintained and conditionality established between three and six years, but that has absolutely nothing to do with the question you ask me, which is the Government's connection with Mr Puigdemont. Look, Mr. Puigdemont is claimed by the courts, he's a fugitive, and therefore, as you and I know, there is separation of powers. Let's let justice work. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u89	Mr. Jerez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u90	Mr Campo, I am sorry to say that you cannot be proud of the outcome of the proposal that you raised to the Council of Ministers and if you tell me that you are, I will not believe you. They have granted pardon against all the reports that advise against it, but I will tell you - because you are not going to say it - that the most serious of all is that you agree with those reports, agree with them and would have subscribed them from principle to purpose as a good judge that I assume you are still. And yet, you have proposed to the Council of Ministers the contrary to your convictions, your principles and your professional judgement, and this makes you a minister at the service, a minister handed over, a minister surrendered to'sanchism' and submitted to a government that has long renounced to defend the constitutional order and the most elementary democratic principles in Spain and also in Catalonia. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u91	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Jerez, if you like, we talk about my personality, my instincts, who I serve, but I think what is really important is what was done yesterday. And what was done yesterday I don't ask you to share it, I can understand until you don't like it. Of course, this minister's proposal is because he believes in it, because he believes in coexistence, because he believes in the constitutional framework, which is the foundation of understanding. I don't think I have to tell you that I don't communicate with secessionist ideas and with the breakup of unity in Spain, of course not! But what I do know is that I have a constitutional framework that allows me to admit someone who doesn't think like me, and that's why this government doesn't sanction any ideology. This government wants there to be agreement, there is a chance that we will understand each other, that hundreds of thousands of people looking at their imprisoned leaders after serving almost four years in prison can afford to talk and dialogue to seek ways of understanding. In the meantime, the Government continues to do things for the proper administration of justice and, for example, participates, in relation to Mr Puigdemont, in the proceedings and procedures that are open before the EUJ. And that is why, whether for the preliminary question or for the questions of immunity, it is there, because the Government believes it is about the separation of powers and contributes to Spain being one, but of course respecting the competence of each of the powers. Therefore, respect the decisions, respect the different and fight for coexistence, because that is what will save us as a country. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTATE OF THE FRENCH BALDE EDMUND, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF THE PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HOW DOES THE VICE-President VALUE THAT THE GOVERNMENT UNDER HER COORDINATION HAS INDULTED TO THE SEDITION AND MALVERSATION CONDENTED AFTER AFTER ENTRYING YOURSELF TO SPAIN IN THE FIELD OF COMPLETION? [[File number 180/00609]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u93	Question by Mr Edmundo Bal Francés, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u94	Mr. Campo, how do you appreciate the Government's pardon to those convicted of sedition and embezzlement when they promised in an election campaign that they would serve their sentences in full?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u95	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Bal, you are very clear, because you are very familiar with the legal world, that the Government used yesterday's jurisdiction under article 62 of the Constitution and developed by the Pardons Act. The circumstances of now are those that you have taken into account, but above all the projection of the future. And, in that regard, I ask you to read carefully all that motivation that led to that decision of the partial pardon that was agreed yesterday for nine of those convicted of the trial. Mr Bal, you know very well that there are reasons of general interest that suggest measures, even, that may seem to a part of the citizenry difficult to understand, but what I ask you is that, with your legal capacity, you contribute to the citizenry's belief that it is possible, that it is totally legal and that it is good for coexistence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u97	Mr. Bal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u98	Mr. Campo, I don't want you to read me the law when the President of the Government is talking about magnanimity and agreement. Do you want some concord? Well, you agree with your own hemeroteca. I went up to the court yesterday and read his statements, an intervention in the XII Legislature, where you argued that the crimes committed by public officials in cases of corruption, such as embezzlement, should be exempted from pardons. Were you then a vengeful side? Were you an anti-democratic, in the words of Mrs. Calvo? Do you know what the problem is? They don't have scruples to keep in power. Do you know what the problem is? That you're cynics. If it were necessary to keep them in power to put them back in jail, they would, because they have no morals. The problem is that, in the meantime, you are damaging the image and good name of our country. The problem is that they trample on the rule of law in such a way as to please Junqueras; the problem is that they continue along the path of ceasing to sovereignism and nationalism and give it the worst, give it moral victory. What's next? Where's this going? What else are they gonna ask for? And you, what else are you going to give them? Have you heard the question of Ruphian and Nogueras in this regard? Five minutes it took Mr Aragonès to laugh at his pardons, five minutes it took Mr Turull to thank him for the pardon: amnesty, self-determination, independence, we continued. You worry about the thugs and you don't care about those who in 2017, with a lot of personal sacrifice, we fight to guarantee the Constitution, the law and the coexistence of everyone in Catalonia. We're not taking a step back. Tomorrow we will go to the Supreme Court to bring an administrative and contentious appeal against pardons; and Junqueras' words are not created that this State is weak; this State is strong and has honor, but it is in the hands of a weak and honorless Government. I assure you that those of us who fight for democracy will win. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u99	Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u100	Mr Bal, we have spoken on some occasion that we believe that insult should not be the currency of change either in this Parliament or anywhere, but I understand that the lack of ideas leads to insult. [[rumors]] I will only tell you one, which I do not tolerate, that this Government does not respect the rule of law, because the law-abiding person respects the rule of law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u101	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u102	And what this Government has done is a competition exercise for coexistence. And I end up with a reflection. Look, Mr. Bal, it's very easy here to wear medals and 'I, Spain', but what do you do for coexistence in Catalonia? What connection do you have with that citizenship and the rest of Spain? Because it seems to me that the only thing that marks the election results is the irrelevance of their political sphere in these territories and, perhaps, that should lead them to some reflection, because the reflections are those that help us to bring light to coexistence. That's what the government did yesterday, try. We have no guarantee that this is going to go well, of course not, but what I am sure is that this Government must do everything possible and remove all the obstacles so that at least the attempt can be made. And everyone's effort is sure to contribute; and if their political formation is for coexistence, it might be better for us as a society. And so it ended, Mr. Bal. I invite you to comply with the laws as an instrument for coexistence. And you know where that comes from? In the body and spirit of something that we all like: the Constitution of 78. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTONIO GONZALEZ TEROL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE: WHY IS THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE TO BE VALUED THE GRANTING OF INDULTS TO SECTORED? [[File number 180/00604]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u103	Question addressed to the Minister of Defence. Question by Mr Antonio González Terol, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you too? Honestly, we didn't expect it. Did you also vote in favour of pardons yesterday? Also the Minister of Defence, the Judge of the General Council of the Judiciary, the Judge of the National Court? Do you realize that you voted against your colleagues' decisions yesterday? What Robles voted against Robles? Do you realize that you signed a manifesto in 2012 against pardons? What did Robles sign against Robles? Do you realize that in September 2014, in The Sixth, you objected in the same terms as the Supreme Court's report to pardons? Do you realize that yesterday Robles voted against Robles? Yesterday you expressed solidarity with the decision of the most radical government president that this country has had, you expressed solidarity with the coupts of 1 October. You, so far, had decided not to position yourself publicly. I would like to know if you have a bad conscience and it was she who led you not to position yourself on the pardons until now. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u105	Madam Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, I have great respect for you, for your party, for those who do not share the pardon, because I firmly believe in democracy. And I ask you also to respect the powers of a constitutionally established Government that give you the Law of Pardon precisely to assess whether or not circumstances of public utility are involved. That is what the Government has done, and that is what the Government has done precisely on the basis of the principles of harmony, tolerance, generosity, recognized in the Transition, recognized in our Constitution, in Christian humanism. Does Christian humanism and generosity sound familiar to you? I hope it does ring a bell. And, look, I'll tell you what. Sometimes, when you don't prepare well, you don't read everything, and you don't read what I signed, along with two hundred judges. The People's Party government - and believe me, it hurts me to have to say this, because I don't like the fact that in matters of state we're throwing rags at our heads - gave a pardon to some mossos convicted of torture, to what we said, and when he saw that the Barcelona High Court didn't give the conditional sentence, his government, that of the People's Party, issued a second pardon. Believe me, it is not you who have the most moral authority to speak of pardons and when I signed it is because that second pardon given by a People's Party government is not acceptable. Let's all make a bet for coexistence, for generosity. No one has to lecture me about justice, because I've been working for justice for twenty-four years, committing myself to justice. I think few people will have a resume like mine in that sense. Few people. I know, from my own experience, that the best complement to justice is generosity, and any judge who makes a judgment, in the area of criminal procedure, knows that such generosity is always a complement that makes justice greater. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u107	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u108	And since they are so concerned about justice, worry, renew the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] Mr. Married, renew the General Council of the Judiciary, do not give lessons from compliance with the Constitution. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u110	It is not acceptable for a Government to be tempted, through pardon, to leave blank the decisions of those who have to make them, which are the courts of justice. Margarita Robles resigned in September 2014. Mrs Robles, you voted against Robles yesterday, and today you spoke against the 2014 Robles, you spoke against the Magistrate Robles, you spoke against the Defender of Justice Robles. Madam minister and magistrate, you took a step yesterday to annihilate the separation of powers. We have passed from 'Montesquieu has died', from Mr Alfonso Guerra, to more than finished Montesquieu by Mrs Robles. With his vote in the name of harmony and coexistence, he has ended both. With your vote in favour of pardons, the Sanchista Party, which has left you abandoned here this morning, has devoured the PSOE and murdered moderate socialism. With their vote, the particular interest has replaced the general interest as a guide to government action. With your vote, Minister and Judge, you have dynamized the rule of law and accepted the blackmail of those who want to destroy Spain; moreover, of those who are not going to conform only with a pardon, of those who ask for amnesty, reform of the crime of sedition, table of dialogue and referendum. Will you, too, as a minister and above all as a magistrate, agree to follow Mr Sánchez's road map? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL MAJOR MARKS ORTEGA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD: DO YOU THINK THAT THE INTERESTS OF THE AGRICULTURAL AND SPANISH GENERATES ARE DESERVED? [[File number 180/00606]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u111	Question to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Question by Mrs Milagros Marcos Ortega, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u112	Mr Planas, when is the dialogue and agreement with Spanish farmers and farmers going forward? More than twenty times have had to go out on the street in four months and you have not moved a single finger: for the olive grove, for the livestock, for the banana of the Canary Islands, for the fruits and now for the discontrol with the products and the tomato of Morocco. What a coincidence! The only thing that has happened was their silence, their silence in the face of the rise in taxes on light and diesel, the problems with the wolf and the water, the changes and cuts in the CAP. Your greatest achievement has been to agree, but against you. Minister, why don't you defend the Spanish farmers as they deserve? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u113	Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Marcos, this is the last monitoring session of the third session of this legislature. You seem to be the spokesman for agriculture in the People's Group and today you are asking me the first question about agriculture in this Parliament in this Chamber. Next Monday, under the Portuguese Presidency, the negotiations on the Common Agricultural Policy 2021-2027 will most likely be closed. See if I am innocent, who thought that today I was asking myself the question: The People's Party is united with the Government of Spain in defending the interests of farmers, farmers and our rural environment. Look, that's what I thought. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u115	Mrs. Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u116	Mr. Planas, don't lie. What happens is that he knows that Spanish farmers and farmers are not going to pardon him. That's what's gonna happen. They are more concerned about their policy in other autonomous communities than about defending agriculture and livestock in Spain. It has been a profile for three years, allowing other ministers to attack farmers and livestock farmers for pure ideology and a false ecology of dispatch. Answer: Yes or no, Minister, farmers deserve to be accused of slavery, of being the cause of all the pollution on the planet? Should the consumption of sugar, meat, oil or wine be demonised? What about the ranchers? Do they deserve to run out of help and have to live with wolves inside their homes? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, inside your houses, in Galicia, two weeks ago. And the regents, Mr. Planas? What is going to happen with the shutdown of the Tajo-Segura transfer, with the new hydrological planning or with 50% of the electric watering charge? Minister, the CAP is closed, yes. Do you really think Spanish farmers and farmers deserve this new CAP? Really, with a cut of EUR 5 billion, totally impossible environmental demands and a national plan that remains hidden in your drawer? Answer me, Mr. Planas. Start practicing now! Until today, Mrs. Rivera commands and you consent, applause and silence. For this reason, farmers and livestock farmers from all over Spain continue to go out on the street. Listen to him! The Spanish countryside can't take it anymore. They don't want to talk about pardons, they have a right... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marcos. Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Marcos, facts and figures: EUR 47 724 million, which seems to hurt you, because with 15% less revenue from the Community budget we have managed to maintain support for farmers and farmers, and you continue to deny even the figures!, reality! What I can tell you is that I am working with the autonomous communities, including those governed by the People's Party, with which I have a good level of dialogue, in order to achieve a great national agreement for the common agricultural policy to be effective for all our farmers and livestock, and our rural environment. EUR 2060 million for the renovation of machinery, modules in the field of professional diesel, and for the improvement of all the agricultural facilities we had last year and this at the Agricultural Dialogue Bureau as a result of work with professional organisations. A set of 13 150 million euros that we have used to support the sector within the framework of COVID-19 and the measures that were necessary for our farmers and livestock farmers. 1051 million in component 3 of the Recovery Plan, dedicated specifically to agriculture, livestock and fisheries, plus 1 billion that will go to the agri-food industry. Mrs. Marcos, I understand that for you this is a ground for denial of reality, but I, as the Vice-President second once said, hold hands with you, because this is a matter of state and our farmers and farmers do not want to be scolded, they want to... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED GIL LAZARO IGNACIO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF TERRITORIAL POLICY AND PUBLIC FUNCTION: WHAT MOST CESIONS ARE GOING TO DO THE GOVERNMENT TO SEPARATISTS AFTER THE INDULTS? [[File number 180/00599]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u120	Question to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, after the pardons, what new assignments are going to be made to the thugs?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u122	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u123	Thank you, President. You speak in your question of assignment. What the Government has committed itself to, and what the President has consistently expressed, is to a process of dialogue, negotiation and pact within the law, and always preserving the Constitution and the mechanisms and majorities necessary to introduce reforms that may eventually be agreed upon. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u124	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, following the dialectic shame displayed by the government this morning, it must be said loud and clear that Spain is neither humiliated nor sold. These pardons are a betrayal of Spain, an insult to national dignity, an attack on the separation of powers, justice and the rule of law. They lack a stable legal basis and are therefore illegal and arbitrary, a scam on the nation, a contempt for the opinion of the Spaniards, a moral vileness. Sánchez once again believes with this disgusting maneuver that it is a danger to democracy, an unscrupulous guy capable of anything so as to maintain himself. What now, Minister? What new assignments are going to be made to this gang of engulfed thugs who say that pardons are proof of the weakness of the State and the prelude to the defeat of Spain and who say that they will do so again if they are not given amnesty, referendum and independence? What else can be expected of you, Minister? Are you going to allow Spain to become that stupid entelequia that you call a nation of nations? Well, VOX won't allow it. We'll resort to pardons. We will put all lawful means within our reach to sit Sanchez and his ministers in a court of law. Without fear of anything or anyone, and against millions of Spaniards, we will continue to defend national unity, the Constitution and the rule of law. There are millions of Spaniards who are so full of scorn and so much indignity; millions of Spaniards who are already willing to commit to a political option, VOX, who know that it is the only one left for them to defend themselves from a lying and unworthy government, a traitorous government, a cowardly and miserable government. That said, Minister: Spain does not shut up or give up. Spain is neither humiliated nor sold. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u126	Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u127	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I accept many things, but not insults. Because from the shame to being a disgrace there is still a piece, and I would therefore like to see the disqualifications referred to by the Government and, in particular, its President withdrawn. But I know you won't, because that's why you have to be a very man. [[Applauds]] There has been talk of humiliation and I say to him that no one has been born who humiliates me, and less who humiliates Spain. In little esteem you have your country if you think that the observance of a law humiliates you, because I must remind you that the pardons in Spain are regulated by a law of 1870. It is true that you want a much older law, the law of heel: eye for eye and tooth for tooth, but I always, between the Old Testament and the New Testament, choose the New Testament, that of forgiveness, that of generosity, that of politics, that of dialogue, that of fraternity, the opposite of what you represent, and I am very sorry! [[Applauds]] I must say, too, that there will be no amnesty and no self-determination; there will be, yes, dialogue and politics, which is what has been lacking in a relationship that has broken between many Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. It is not for me, because I defended it when it was necessary to do so the 1978 Constitution - I don't know if everyone can say the same thing - and I continue to defend it today, including the possibility of its reform. Whoever wants the Constitution doesn't care about reforming it. [[Applauds]] Reform to strengthen, unlike those who want to undermine the democratic authority of dialogue, politics and consensus. Therefore, Your Honor, Spain is not in danger with us. With us in Spain the law is enforced throughout the territory, which not everyone can say.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Prolonged applause from Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u129	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Ms Oramas González-Moro, on the solution that the Government is going to give to the situation of fraud of law for abuse of the temporality of public employees both in the Canary Islands and the rest of the State. For her defence, Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, please, a little silence so that we can continue with the control plenary of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the Spanish humor, which has always been corrosive, has a phrase that says that heroes are the ones who made a mistake in running away, but it is false. Fortunately for everyone in this country we have many characters who, faced with adversity, consciously chose the path of responsibility, even if it was also that of personal sacrifice. But you know what? There is a huge difference between what is done with value and what is executed by survival. But today I do not come to talk to you about pardons, I come to talk to you about something that also requires enormous value, which affects the lives of hundreds of thousands of people, but which you even refuse to consider because it has no political benefits, Mr.Iceta, just for that. It seems like it was a century ago, but it was only two years ago that the PSOE presented itself to an election with a phrase: 'Make it happen'. And what had to happen? For everything; a profound change in the rules of the game, in the life of this country, in labor relations and in public administrations. I will read you some of your own words, Mr.Iceta, from your party's programme: 'The PSOE has given priority to the fight against precarious employment, low wages and the dignity of working conditions'. Keep this last sentence, Minister, 'the dignity of working conditions'. And you added that in order to promote many of these changes it is essential to have a greater volume of public resources, budgetary resources and human resources. What brings me to this rostrum today, Minister, is no more or less what you wrote, but it seems only to be lost in the wind of time, to restore the job dignity to those who are subjected to a permanent fraud in their hirings and to ensure that public administrations have sufficient human resources, whose jobs do not depend on the incumbent politician. In Spain, an attack has been carried out on public workers. All reforms, regulations and inspections on fraud have been directed towards the private labour market, but in the meantime the local and autonomous public administrations have violated workers' rights to security and stability in their jobs with impunity. There are two Spains, one for the workers of the private world and the other for those of the public sector. What I have come to ask you here, Mr Iceta, is that this Government approves an pardon for the hundreds of public employees who work in the most precarious situation, but the pardon is for a crime committed by the public administrations, not the workers, people who have been in a position of our administrations for ten, fifteen, twenty years, chaining contracts, in many cases approaching the end of their working life and who do not know if they are going to be in that same job next year or are going to throw them out on the street. What I come to ask of this Government is that it assume its responsibilities, that the necessary legal measures - which are available - be promoted to defend the acquired rights of thousands and thousands of women and men who right now have no security in their present or in their immediate future, and that despite their lifetime working in public services. That cannot be, Minister, that cannot be tolerated. European legislation to protect workers in the Spanish public sector in fraud is conclusive. The Directive on fixed-term work affects both private and public sector workers, although in this country those who make laws always end up cheating. Spain was obliged to eradicate successive recruitment and law-enforcement fraud and has not done so. As the report by María Emilia Casas, President of the Constitutional Court, points out, fraudulent temporary contracts are an abuse that is not sanctioned in public employment, where it remains a usual formula, and this situation leaves workers without protection mechanisms before their employer, who is above it the public administration itself, who should punish these situations and protect workers; a situation that, if it were not dramatic, would be Kafkian. The judgments of the European Court of Justice of 19 March 2020 and of 3 June 2021 state that temporary contracts cannot be used to cover permanent needs. In our public administrations there are people who have been on contracts renewed year by year for more than twenty years, performing exactly the same functions, and in that same judgment it is stated that the penalty must be proportionate to repair the damage caused effectively and dissuasively. Do you want to tell me, Minister, that the offers of public employment are going to repair some of the damage done to these workers who are already there? The OPEs, Mr Iceta, are a bad way to wash the hands of this government. You want to end the situation of previous illegality, but on the corpse of the rights of thousands of public employees to whom after years and years of work you will put on the street. Twenty-one years ago, Carmen started working as a dining watchman in a school. A few years later, she started working as a cook and has been doing that job for ten years. Minister, twenty years of feeding generations of children. And now you want to study the Spanish Constitution and the status of autonomy and make some oppositions? Do you really think it is fair that people who have been in a job for decades, who are over forty, fifty or sixty years old, have to present themselves to an OPE in order to keep their jobs? Aren't you ashamed of yourself, Minister? Nurses, cellists, technicians, auxiliaries at SEPE, in hospitals, in dependency, injustice... those who gave the callo in the pandemic. You say that they cannot be fixed because it violates the equality of rights enshrined in the Constitution. We are talking about people who already work in the Administration, they are not going to access, they are already inside, and we are not asking that they be made civil servants, but that they be given stability in their jobs until their retirement. That is a constitutional and zero-cost solution, Mr Iceta. If they don't, it's just because they don't want to. Tell me clearly: what problem is there to give them stability until their retirement? What is the constitutional rule that is not met? Oh, yes, I've also heard you say that you can't turn temporary workers into fixed workers, which is illegal. Mr. Iceta, do you know this year's State Budgets Act? Look at and read Article 87 on transformations of entities belonging to the State Institutional Public Sector. I read the paragraph: 'The integration of those who until then have come to perform functions reserved for civil servants without being able to do so may be carried out with the condition of extinction, and the characteristics of the posts concerned must be assessed in advance'. There are a number of cases where the public administration is obliged to admit that figure. I remind you of the case of the 1300 workers of the Hospital de Alzira, which the Valencian Community absorbed with the consideration of places to be extinguished in 2018. By the way, Mr.Iceta, Carmen Montón, who was also Minister of Health, who was the Health Advisor of Valencia and made this decision, my friend, is from her own political party. Three years later we're still the same, Mr. Iceta. The problem is one of a Government that has not promoted a legislative change, a final point law that would put an end to the abuse of public administrations by workers in vulnerable situations. You say that with the Constitution in hand these workers cannot be fixed, but it turns out that in the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience of the Government of Spain it does intend to do so with the doctors, turning them from temporary to fixed with the evaluation of their curriculum. What is going on here, Mr. Iceta, that doctors are not concerned by the Constitution? The doctors, who come through here with the resume, we're going to fix them. The other workers, go through the back door, we're going to make some objections to them. This is the equity and equality of this Government. Mr Iceta, what you propose for doctors is what you have to do with all the public personnel in abuse of temporality, with everyone, Minister, because the opposition is not a way out for those who have been working in an irregular situation for decades, for which they are not guilty and for which they do not have to pay. The Solution is in the creation by law of the stabilized personnel figure, a constitutional solution to an exceptional situation that requires a final point law. If this government continues with its opposition plans, they will be the largest ERE in Spain's history, not the largest OPE, the largest ERE. Hundreds of thousands of people with work experience, with a life of public work behind their backs, will be put on the street to give entry to other people who will occupy those same jobs, and this is unfair, Mr.Iceta, unjust with whom they have provided so many years of public service. This is not a trial, we do not have to find one guilty of what has happened because we already have it, we are all, all the political parties, some we have ruled in the Canary Islands, others in Andalusia, others in Galicia and others in this country. Spain has one million temporary workers in the public sector and of them there are 700,000 women, Mr Iceta, and in the Canary Islands we have 71,000 temporary employees in all administrations. These are very important figures that affect many families and point to people who in many cases are at an age where they will not find opportunities in the labour market and are sent to hell unemployment, which they will hardly be able to leave again. Gentlemen of the Government, there is no common sense among constitutional values, but it should be. Mr.Iceta, before you in your ministry have preceded you other people and one of them was a canary minister of public administration, the socialist Jerónimo Saavedra. Mr Saavedra is a prestigious jurist, in addition to having a long political career. Do you know what he said to you a few days ago? He reminded you that he and other university interns were appointed officials by decree when the 1978 Constitution already existed and encouraged you, Minister Miquel Iceta, to look for this legislative precedent that shows that it is constitutional to fix public employees in abuse of temporality. Workers in legal fraud for abuse of temporality will be victims of the solution you are considering. It's over, Your Honor. Is this government not going to have the courage to pardon more than a million people who are only asking to remain in their jobs and to be sure that they will not be fired before their retirement? I, frankly, can't believe that you're so cruel to the weakest, I can't believe that you listen deafly to so many people, so many women who will see themselves on the street at an age when you won't find work again. I can't believe it and I don't want to believe it. Please listen to him, I ask him not for the future in which we can converge, he asked him about that million people who are right now in that situation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs Cepeda. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Oramas, you were quoting a phrase about heroism and I'm going to quote one about ignorance: ignorance is bold. I think that by chance you wanted to ask me this question today, the day after the meeting of the Public Employment Coordination Committee, which was formed by all the Directors-General of Public Service of the Autonomous Communities. You ask me this question today when tomorrow, at the Sectoral Conference on Public Administration, in which all the public service advisers of the Autonomous Communities are represented, you will know the Government's proposal and will give it your support or not. You ask me today when the Council of Ministers next week or the Council of Ministers next week will see the adoption of the decree-law on that stabilization process and that global approach to temporality in administrations. As you were saying, this is a problem that has been accumulating, that has been dragging over thirty years, by putting a figure. I must tell you that I have only been in the government for five months, but in these five months I will bring to the government and then to the House a proposal to put an end to that problem. You were talking to me about distinguished canarian ministers; last week I ate with my friend Jerónimo Saavedra and commented on his proposals, his concerns and I explained to him the plans of the Government. You say if you can't stabilize those temps and I'm saying that we can't by law make a person who isn't; that's what I'm saying, and I repeat it, and I repeat it. However, I also tell you that you will be able to do so through the last - we hope - stabilization process that we will have tomorrow; moreover, even those who, for reasons that are not going to pass this test, will be able to continue to be part of the interim bags that the autonomous communities need. Another phrase that is used a lot is to put the bandage on before the wound. You said: no, it's that here, surely, we are all responsible. In Catalan we would say i tanto, what it means and so much. Do you know what is the autonomous community that accumulates a higher percentage of interims? Canary Islands. I have asked for many explanations and the truth is that I have only found one that is solid, and it is the long years of the Canary Coalition Government in the Archipelago. Therefore, indeed, and coinciding with your honor, many of us have been responsible, probably more by omission than by other things. I will also tell you that the People's Party has tried - I think it should be acknowledged - to correct this problem with stabilization processes. Perhaps they have not worked as well as expected, but that is not only the responsibility of the Spanish Government but also of all the autonomous governments and the governments of the local authorities. However, I would like to thank you very much for your inquiry, first of all because it will surely give rise to a motion and, therefore, the House will be able to rule on the matter, as it will have to on the decree-law approved by the Government. What does it basically consist of? I'll try to be the most synthetic but also the most pedagogical. First, we're going to ban temporality. It will be impossible, after the adoption of this new regulation, for a person to continue acting in a position of the Administration for more than three years. It is not reasonable, it is not good for public administrations and I must also say that this must be a very important incentive for public administrations to compete for all the places currently occupied by interims. That will require political will, also the correctness at the time of legislation and the intensive use, if I may, of the mechanisms that the decree-law will contemplate. Before I go on, my cabinet has warned me that today is the day declared by the United Nations as the International Day of Public Administration, and I think it is worth noting in the Journal of Sessions that circumstance. It is true that well-functioning institutions and administrations are also part of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and we owe it to them. He rightly cited the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and also the European Commission's own Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which it had just adopted, once presented and justified by the Spanish Government. There we have made a commitment, the commitment to end in 2024 with the temporality, in this case excessive temporality of the autonomous communities, of the municipalities and of the general administration of the State itself. But let me break a spear in favor of all those who have been ministers of public administration, civil service, canaries or not. Everyone's made an effort. So much so that the General Administration of the State has a level of temporality of 8%, that many experts consider that this is reasonable, because everyone understands that a teacher must be replaced, that a doctor must be replaced, that a staff member must be replaced and that this cannot wait for an entire selection process, but that we need people who have accredited their abilities and can immediately fill a vacancy that has occurred. You say, and you say well, that those who have been in the Administration, even as interims, have shown a will for public service and have also shown some skills. Imagine that we said otherwise, that we said that we had ten years to a doctor who was not capable of exercising his profession, or to a teacher, or to a cleaner, or to an administrative person. What would we all be saying to ourselves? Fearless, insolvent, daring... I think we all recognize that for too long there has been a problem that we must tackle right now. I don't think it makes me a hero, it does make me responsible, in the full sense of the word, but we must find a mechanism to tackle this problem once and for all. Therefore, one of the key pieces of the plan that the Government is going to adopt on temporality involves the reform of the Basic Staff Regulations. But you - and I understand it - were particularly concerned about the meanwhile or, if you want, the cumulative effects of a management probably not all the right that should have been of the public workers who are in an interim situation. Look, we're going to do our best, within the framework that the Constitution points out to us, to stabilize these people. There's a dispute over the numbers, Your Honor. I must say it and admit in some case our inability to know. You've talked about a million. When I came to the ministry, there was talk of 800 000, I do not think that in five months it has grown so much; but, after consulting the autonomous communities and the local entities, the numbers that they provide us, to which we add those that correspond to the General Administration of the State, are 310 000, which are undoubtedly very many. And here there is a distinction that, like all, is questionable, between interim staff and interim staff in law enforcement fraud. That is, there have been many people who have been joining the administration - and I am speaking in plural - on a temporary basis, because they have done so to give strength to a given program or even because they have joined the administration with a temporary contract. These cases are not considered by the Courts of Justice of the European Union or by the Spanish Supreme Court as interim staff in law fraud, because they have not been recruited in law fraud. We are talking about fraud of law when temporary contracts have been set up to continue to perform a function, if I may say so, of a structured nature in the Administration. We have tried to find a balanced solution, a solution that will definitely put an end to this possibility of law fraud that will allow the largest number of public employees to be stabilized, and not by their will, in that situation. We are also working - but he will forgive me if I do not need him, because we are still collecting the contributions that took place yesterday in the Public Employment Coordination Commission - mechanisms to compensate the people concerned and also to punish those administrations that have shown disdain, disinterest or guilt in the commission of such law fraud or injustice with the people. Your Honor, I recognize your interest not only in the question, but because we have already come from a question that asked me at a previous plenary session. I also recognize your interest in the fact that, because you have been part of a party that has so long ruled an autonomous community, it is logical that you should be concerned about the effects of these policies. And I also recognize your interest as a representative of national sovereignty. I can only say that you have me at your disposal to improve the proposals that we can make, and also to allow us, when the validation of the decree-law comes to Congress, to introduce, if possible, improvements that will respond to the problems that your Lordship has raised. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you started by saying that ignorance is bold, because, according to you, I presented the inquiry today because tomorrow I had a meeting. [[The Lord]] No, what I want to tell you is that this inquiry has been presented for three weeks every week and has not entered until today, and ignorance can be bold in a deputy or a normal person, but ignorance is inadmissible in a minister. You have spoken of the next decree to reduce the temporality, to remove all the places, commitment to end it in 2024, mechanisms that address this problem, the reform of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, and in that we will surely agree on the future of access to the Public Administration so that it does not happen again what has happened in the last thirty years. You're very smart to claim that I'm worried about this because the Canary Coalition has ruled in recent years - by the way, eight years with your party, the last ones -. This is not a problem of that, in Andalusia you ruled twenty-five and have four times as many. And I have here the data for Catalonia: 121000. What do I want to tell you? It is not a problem of who rules in Catalonia, Andalusia or the Canary Islands. Let's be serious. What I have asked you to do is to talk about the constitutional solutions, with judgments of the European High Court of Justice, with the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court, Emilia Casas, and above all about the actions that you have already determined in the budgets of the State with certain staff who were non-official and with the reactivation plan with regard to doctors. In this it will have political consensus, do not say that it will seek a solution tomorrow and in the coming months and with the decree that it brought in June. That is the solution for those who have to enter the Administration and a warning to the administrations about how the rules of the game are going to be now. Listen to Maria Emilia Casas, listen to Jerónimo Saavedra, see what her partner did at the Hospital de Alzira in Valencia. And one last thing, yesterday the Autonomous Community of the Canary Islands re-created the work table to quantify those affected and study the legal alternatives with the strike committee of the public employees, meeting that was stopped by order of you two months ago and that will be restarted. UGT and Commissions have said that this is smoke and I ask you: if the Government of the Canary Islands comes to an agreement with the trade unions in the Canary Islands outside the line and the criterion of their ministry, will you prevent that agreement from being signed in the Canary Islands?, that is not the good thing, because I believe that this is not a problem for the Canary Islands, it is a problem for Spain and there really has to be an amendment to the current basic law, but above all a decision of a law of final point to be considered in an exceptional way to these people: to that cook of a school, to that janitor, to that nurse, who has the same right as the doctor and who has been in the same years as the doctor, because in pandemic times they were the ones who gave the call for us; to consider that SEPE staff, to that staff of the City of Las Palmas - which my party has not ruled -, to that justice staff of Lanzarote, who is in the same circumstance. All these people this country owes. And second, you said a few weeks ago that people who were going to say good-bye would be entitled to compensation. But he's talking about the future. Or do you intend that the million people or 800,000 people - who would have an average of 20 or 30 000 euros in compensation, if applied for the years they are - will be paid? Are we going to use all the money from Europe this year to pay compensation to continue to have the same number of officials? No, you've cleared it up. But I want to clarify this here because there are some vassals of yours who are dedicated to saying that they will be compensated. That's not true. I believe that the public servants who were up to it last year at very difficult times in this country, working at home with their computers to get the ERTs, the aids, the issues of unemployment, the topic of dependence and so many things - as I say, doctors, nurses, cellists, school cooks - must have the opportunity to get to retirement with a decent salary, because at this time with the economic situation of this country that will be impossible. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u135	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. What I am saying - and I have said this since my inauguration - is that the rate of temporality that all the public administrations have is not acceptable, that there is a problem that needs to be addressed and that the situation of those who have exercised their functions in a fraud of law needs to be resolved as far as we can. That's what I said and I keep. I also say that it is a particularly legitimate concern between parties that have ruled and that is why I have addressed you in terms of a person of government. Now, I must make my complaint - if I may - because I do not give orders to any community, to any community, nor do I have vassals; it is a possibility that I have not contemplated and that seems to me that the Constitution prohibits. So don't tell me those things because I'm really surprised. What we are saying is that we are going to make sure that a situation like this cannot be replicated in the future - with what I think we will all agree and sincerely welcome - and that we are going to fix the situation of many people who have been caught up in an unfair logic, and that is what we call the stabilization process. The stabilization processes are to be done through special competitions-oppositions in which the experience in that particular job is to be counted as competition-oppositions. We're even going to give the autonomous communities some space so that, instead of contest-opposition, it's just contest. That will be in the hands of the autonomous communities and local entities. In order to favour the courts of such competitions in very small local entities, we will also allow them to be established, if they so wish, by the provincial parliaments in each area, because there are many local entities that are expressing to us the extreme difficulty of forming such bodies because of their nature; they are very small local entities and have no staff qualified to be part of those courts. I would also like to say that we - and I think we all - do not want to lose the talent accumulated by the experience of so many people - I think that we can agree there, Your Honor - but we cannot make an exception to the constitutional principles of equality, merit and capacity. We would not only be failing the Constitution, but also respecting very little those who have acceded to the Public Service following those criteria and having approved such contests or oppositions from time immemorial of the way they have done so. I know that in politics sometimes it's best to promise everything and then forget. I, as I want to be judged by what I say but above all by what I do, commit myself to what I think I can reasonably commit myself to. It is not that I want to encourage your ladies and gentlemen to a - if I may say so - parliamentary revolt, but the government has the Members it has and we will therefore have to establish a negotiation. Now Well, what I do allow myself to ask everyone is that I listen to the public leaders of all parties in all administrations, because there are many times that simple arguments - and I am not saying that your lordship has used them - are raising expectations that are not reasonable in many people. There are people who are saying: European judgments are going to fix you. Lie. He's playing with people's feelings, but also with the charge of fees in advance. We have to say this because we have an obligation to everyone. Therefore, we believe that with the stabilization process we will serve the interest of at least 300,000 people; we will prevent the slowness of the processes from generating greater injustices; we will prevent and punish the abuse and fraud of temporality, and we will compensate those who have suffered it, but, as your Lordship says, in the future. We cannot retroactively approve compensation for anyone or sanctions for administrations. I hope that we can find the right balance and solution to the problem and, of course, both because of its tone and the content of its intervention, I am convinced that with your group we will be able to reach agreements that will improve, if possible, the proposal that the Government will bring tomorrow to the Sectoral Conference on Public Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u137	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO EXPLAIN WHY IT DEFENDS AGAINST INTERNATIONAL BODIES THAT THE LIVING POLICY MUST BE IN THE SERVICE OF THE INTERESTS OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT OF THE CITIZEN. [[File number 172/000125]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u138	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to explain why the Government defends against international agencies that housing policy should be at the service of the interests of the Government and not of the citizen. For your defence, Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we are faced with one of the most important challenges as a country: housing policy. To avoid the right of private property under the Constitution with the right to housing is a challenge, as both are threatened by the housing policy of the Government of Spain, which reaches the legislation at the autonomous level, for example in the case of Catalonia or the Balearic Islands. They want to make one prevail at the expense of annihilating the other and make it clear is - the social label to cover their inability to manage. Therefore, the usual: prohibit, prosecute and limit. And, in the end, the same results: less protection of the vulnerable, less equality, less private property, more illegality, less freedom. Propaganda and ads, but unmanaged propaganda is deception. This is the summary of his housing policy, a great deception, and of his social shield, a socialist scam. Spain has historically developed the model of access to home ownership, compared to other countries that have opted for rental housing or rehabilitation. We can conclude that the Spanish savings are in the housing sector, which leads us to reaffirm, as the People's Party, our commitment to the defence of private property, because we defend the owner, a lifetime of effort and work, in the face of the attack he suffers from the policies of the left. Mr Minister, on 26 May, you completed an intervention in this House on housing with five conclusions. One, we are regulating housing policies as a public service of general interest. Two, we promote the development of public housing parks. Three, we reinforce the right to decent housing. Four, we give transparency, security and information. And, five, we facilitate a regulation that limits rent price increases. A month later from all these premises, it seems that you will be encouraged with one of them, precisely the only one that can boost the market: limit rental prices. It is clear that the public service of general interest has reserved it for the granting of pardons and the President's particular interest; that the development of public housing parks is neither expected nor expected - zero homes delivered, under construction or initiated in these three years - that for the strengthening of the right to decent housing at an affordable price have not implemented a single measure, and that in terms of transparency, security and information it is enough to see only the headlines of the last few weeks: 'Companies cry for the government to stop playing with housing policy', 'The entertainment policy is unleashed around a critical asset such as housing', 'The new housing law unleashes all the alarms'. Is this your new housing policy or does it bring a new one today? I am aware that we do not reserve any important announcements, because you state issues take them to theaters, with prepaid public and without questions. I also suppose your advisors will have recommended that you contain yourself and not exceed the 100,000 homes for social rent that has been adding speech after speech until raising a Tower of Pisa that can't stand another lie. You can also tell us about your last occurrence. Rents of 150 euros per month come from the hands of the Government and the Sareb. Mr Ábalos, can you confirm today how many houses we are talking about under these conditions? Where are they located? Can you assure us that these homes are in decent condition to be inhabited? I imagine you are no stranger to the state of vandalization and destruction in which many of these homes are found. In a country where government-protected octopus increases by 40%, many of these homes are neither occupied nor occupied. Do you not again disguise the need to get rid of these houses as a social shield because this is what the European Union is going to demand? Aren't you announcing that they save everyone while once again they only save themselves? Because it will not deny me that it is a curious social policy that a family pays 150 euros in rent while paying 80 electricity and 4% more gas. What they give him on the one hand is taken off on the other. You're a Robin Hood, but the other way around. [[Rumors]] Of the Housing Law that exists only in your imagination I can only ask you by the last headlines: 'The PSOE gives in to the pressures of Podemos and agrees to a regulation of rents', 'The Housing Law proposes mandatory extensions of rents'. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u140	Wait a minute, Your Honor. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u141	Thank you, President. By the way, have you already been stripped of your powers in this future law? I say this because it was Mrs.Belara who announced it as her own measure at her first appearance as a minister in this Congress. The ministers change but the same crises continue and, for each other, the houses do not do. Minister, you're only short of expropriations to make unconstitutional poker, but it's all gonna go away, isn't it? In fact, it will have to cover the Catalan and Balearic laws, which it has neither resorted to nor intends to resort to. Did he really think that if he extended the elaboration of this law for three years in the same slow fire that the pardons were going to pass unnoticed their attack on private property, their attack to use as a payment currency the independenceist and radical left votes that keep them in power with the support of the okupation - because he has not resorted to the rules of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia -, with the introduction of a limitation of the rental prices that he has not resorted to in Catalonia and with the approval of the Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 that suspends the launches and encourages the lateness and the okupation? You also kept quiet when the Socialist Government of Mrs Armengol in the Balearic Islands announced the expropriation of 56 housing units for large forks for seven years, paying the owners a 40% lower price than the market they subsequently had to rectify; the price, of course, the expropriation does not. In fact, you not only fell to this measure, but applauded it. You said: 'There is nothing to object to the expropriation of homes in Balearic Islands. ... That is called solidarity, but also commitment.' It is curious that their solidarity is always at the expense of the heritage of the Spaniards. It must also be solidarity that you have decided that the inheritances in Baleares, Galicia or Catalonia are now a fraud that must be punished fiscally, right? You are insatiable in strangling the middle and working class of this country, in persecuting the effort of parents and grandparents to leave something in inheritance to your children. [[applause]] That's right, in Galicia they oppose this robbery, but in Balearics they have the president quiet. Let's talk about Balearics, yes, because in Balearics, as in Catalonia, it is where they have moved their radical left-wing policy laboratory. Analyzing what has been done there, we can get an idea of what will happen to the rest of the country. They announce the expropriation of homes to large forks. They generate noise, controversy, insecurity. Investment and investors are driven away. According to the latest report of the builders, constant regulatory and restrictive changes are slowing down activity, which, together with inefficiency and lack of political will, exacerbates the lack of affordable housing for the middle and middle classes and young people who want to emancipate. All this, with a deficit of 15,000 homes in the Balearic Islands. They cancel the private initiative, since the promoters will not want to invest in their projects if they do not have the houses sold in advance, which further limits the offer. From the expropriation of floors announced, 33 have been acquired - the budget has run out; 33 with a deficit of 15 000 houses and a waiting list of more than 8000 families for social housing - while the construction sector lost 500 million in investment or the state public investment collapsed 85% with an exhausted president, Armengol, and some policies that you want to export, unable to encourage the private sector, to undertake an administrative simplification or some policy of guarantees and guarantees that protect the owners. And what does the Minister of the Government of Spain do? Protect and defend the citizens of the Balearic Islands? No, sell them to the highest bidder in exchange for a few votes in Congress. Only in this way is it explained that in your visit to Palma you would say - abrocomillas -: 'The foundations have been laid for a decent and affordable housing'. Let's see the results. The whales must save sixteen years to buy a home, more than double the national average. The price of housing rises by 4.6 per cent in the Balearic Islands. The average price of housing is the highest in Spain. The price is growing unhindered in the Balearic Islands, 51% in just five years. Dignity and affordable. And let's see what happens to the VPOs. The Socialist Balearic Government has launched some 20 projects with a high level of publicity and a low budget. At best, in 2023 we will have about 400 floors with a deficit - I repeat - of 15,000 homes and 8,000 families waiting. Campaign to capture private homes to rehabilitate and rent: failure. Campaign to promote cooperatives to build VPO: failure. And this week's headline, the proposal to convert hotels into VPO: failure; zero requests in a year. There are 900 occupied social housing units, because you protect the Okupas and unprotect the vulnerable. Socialism. It was a pity that he landed in Mallorca and announced in Palma 831 houses in the former headquarters of Son Busquets and that, for this, he had begun a negotiation with the Ministry of Defence, making it clear that President Armengol had not done so. What negotiations have you started, Mr Ábalos? I say this because, as of today, the Son Busquets site continues to appear on the page of Defense under auction procedure and, if we see all the auctions of the Ministry of Defense that remain deserted, we can expect the same. Minister, tell a truth for once. What negotiations have you started with Defense? Are you going to build 800 homes in Palma or are 800 more lies? Are you going to build something before 2023? Minister, with this panorama, do you still believe that the Balearic model is what you want for the rest of Spain? Are you going to defend private property in the Balearic Islands and its citizens or are you going to export this attack on private property to your national housing law? In the People's Party we will always be in the defense of private property, in the defense of the effort of an entire generation, in the defense of the citizens of Balearics and of all Spain in all possible ways. Minister, Ernesto for once could join the People's Party and, as you say recently, do something - this time yes - for Spain and the Spanish. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u142	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda then has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u143	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by stressing that this government has a clear objective: to strengthen housing policy, where the focus is on citizenship and not on other interests. The latter, by the way, has characterized the disastrous policy developed in this area by the governments of the People's Party. I would like to remind you of the abusive increases in rental prices, the detraction of supply, the increase in evictions, the instability of the sector, the sale of the public park of housing for speculation and the drastic reduction of the resources of the State Housing Plan, and therefore of the aid to the most vulnerable. You, Your Honor, take part in what the OECD report says and omit what you do not like, which is ultimately the reason for this inquiry. For example, the report states that the Government has taken steps to regulate the extension of the mandatory extension of leases, to update the lease rules and limits on the value of lease guarantees to tenants, and to create a state-wide rental price benchmark system that can help improve private lease markets. Budget 2021 significantly increased funding for housing policies and the Recovery Plan allocates €1 billion for public social housing. This is what the OECD report says. [[Applauds]] This report continues to welcome the change in political trends and the efforts of the Spanish Government when it says: In recent years there has been a shift towards social housing for rent on public land; the shift towards the rental of social housing from property is welcome, as labour mobility is less likely to be impeded. And the OECD does not say no to the regulation of rents, it says yes in some areas, as we want to fix, establishing a balance between tenants and tenants. The report says: The authorities are currently developing a new housing law considering several policy instruments to regulate high rents in some areas; rental regulations must be designed to strike a balance between the interests of tenants and owners, create security of tenure and make abundant supply of rental housing for all socio-economic groups. We are not thinking of general regulations, but, as the OECD report says, to use different policy instruments to temporarily regulate high rents in specific areas, i.e. to curb abusive increases in stressed areas. In addition, I would like to remind you of other international bodies that have also repeatedly insisted that we establish mechanisms to curb abusive rent increases and achieve real income restraint that favours the most economically vulnerable. I invite you to also review the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. What have we done? To change the direction and, instead of favouring dark interests, to reduce the effort to pay for housing, with subsidies and containing rents. We have given security by increasing the years of the contracts; we have increased the housing budgets, especially in the State Housing Plan; we have improved the collaboration between administrations and with the private sector and made a firm bet for the increase of the public housing park and its armor, as well as a decisive action for the improvement of the residential park with intensive rehabilitation policies. In addition, we are working to curb abusive rent increases, ensure decent housing at affordable prices, help the most vulnerable and promote housing law to strengthen rights and guarantees for legal certainty. In this way, and because we understand that citizens should be at the centre of our action and planning, we are working on the drafting of a draft bill for the right to housing. A rule of law with four objectives: to curb abusive rent increases, to contain the price of rents and to improve the fiscal framework that allows for a greater supply of housing, to address the situation of the most vulnerable and to improve the collaboration between the different administrations to address the problem of housing and to expand the housing stock for rent, both public and private. Therefore, this normative text not only has to focus on one aspect exclusively, because it will contemplate many more measures that will help implement a rigorous, guaranteed and transparent housing policy, and always respecting the competitive framework set out in the Constitution. We are aware that the biggest problem we have is the lack of housing for rent. To this end, in order to stimulate supply, from the ministry we continue to make progress in the Housing Plan for Affordable Rent, which will allow the development of a real park of up to 100,000 housing units, as I have already explained before. In fact, as an example, I have to announce that today we are going to start the works of urbanization of the unused land of the Engineering Headquarters in Valencia, which will allow the creation of 438 new houses to promote and facilitate access to the housing under rental regime at affordable prices. On the other hand, the General Budgets of the State for this financial year 2021, which ended the successive extensions of the budget that was approved in the financial year 2018, have been greatly increased in the area of housing, reflecting the various economic and social priorities that the Government sets as its objective. The importance we attach to housing is therefore evident in the budgetary effort which they concentrate on, with an increase of 373 %. Thus, we allocated to Housing and Urban Agenda 2250 million euros for this year 2021. It is an increase of 1775 million euros, the largest budget in history in this area. In addition, last Friday we published the hearing and public information procedure of the project of the new State Plan for Access to Housing 20222025, which emphasizes, first, the social role of housing to facilitate rent-free access to those sectors of the population with economic difficulties and prioritizes attention to the most vulnerable groups, such as victims of gender-based violence, those who are the object of eviction from their habitual housing, the homeless and other persons who are so qualified. Secondly, this plan also seeks to increase the public housing park, so that it becomes more representative and manages to solve housing problems more effectively. Thirdly, resources are also allocated for the granting of new subsidies to help young people with limited economic resources in their access to housing, whether for rent or by acquisition in certain cases linked to the demographic challenge and the recovery of small towns or towns. In this way, the ministry maintains its commitment to avoid depopulation in rural areas. Finally, this plan maintains specific support to contribute to accessibility to housing and regulates a new aid programme for the eradication of chabolism and infra-housing. This is complementary to the future royal decree regulating the residential rehabilitation and social housing assistance programmes of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which we have also recently submitted to public information. Finally, I cannot fail to mention the situation with regard to the non-derogation of the Catalan law in the face of the unconstitutionality brought by this Government. The will of the Government of Spain is always to reach an agreement. Therefore, in the light of the legal services report, we are opening a negotiation process, as is usual in any case of possible invasion of state powers. If there is no agreement, the Government has an obligation to appeal, and we have done so. The Government appealed against the provision of Catalonia because the autonomous community cannot regulate areas that fall within the competence of the Government of Spain. However, and bearing in mind that the problems are solved with understanding and agreement, we have not called for their suspension, because this Government will always bet on dialogue and agreement. The Government has always defended the right to housing and, for this reason, is regulating, implementing and defining a battery of measures, both structural and management, to help access to decent and adequate housing. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. In short, our priorities in these policies that we are carrying out are for and for our citizens. As you can see, they are very different from the politics far from the social and citizen reality that unfortunately characterizes the governments of the People's Party. We therefore have as one of our essential objectives to ensure access to housing by increasing the supply of affordable and social rental housing, rental aid and investment in rehabilitation as a key element for economic recovery. In this way, we have launched and want to continue working on a social housing policy, promoting measures to facilitate the enjoyment of decent and adequate housing, in a very particular way in rent, and the containment of abusive rent increases. All this within an appropriate legislative framework, which guarantees legal certainty and elaborated with dialogue and respecting the competences that, of course, regulates and establishes our Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u144	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Prohens Rigo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I do not know what to think about what you are talking about, precisely you, about dark interests. And about all the things you've announced here today, as if you've just arrived, what have you done in these two years? As for the announcement for the Valencians, I tell them to arm themselves with patience. If they have to follow their example, the example of the socialist governments in the Balearic Islands, in five years they have completed forty-one officially protected dwellings. And you were talking to me about the OECD report, but you have left a part, you have let the OECD warn Spain that it already has one of the strictest housing rental regulations and that it is important to assess possible long-term negative aspects. The result is clear: greater control of rents can reduce the supply of rented housing, without benefiting those households most in need. But it is not necessary to be a minister to know, just to see what is happening in Berlin, what is happening in Paris, where the rental offer has fallen by 25% and rental prices have risen by more than 35%, Mr Ábalos. And you were also talking to me about the vulnerable. The socialist government likes to talk about the social shield - or this socialist scam that they have committed - or the vulnerable. Let's see what you've done to the vulnerable, who you've done to the evictions. You, on your visit to Palma, and your partners had to remember that the evictions in Palma had increased by 80%, following sixty monthly evictions in the city of Palma, and this is governing you. Or I can remind you of what a socialist city council is about to do in Ibiza, because you have a double speech: in the morning you are the ones who most protect the vulnerable, but in the afternoon you are willing to leave more than sixty families in the Don Pepe building in a town hall ruled by you in Ibiza in the middle of the summer, without any housing solution. Mr. Ábalos, you should be ashamed to come up here and talk about the vulnerable. [[Applauds]] But, according to another report that your Government has referred to this House on the viable restructuring of mortgage-guarantee debts on habitual housing, let us see what you are doing for the vulnerable. While the number of applications in the first quarter of 2020 has increased by 34.9%, half of the mortgage debt restructurings for regular housing have collapsed, by 51.7% less, a negative trend already beginning in 2019. Of the 4248 restructuring requests received in the first half of 2020, 25.7% are for Catalonia. As one of the autonomous communities where the housing market has been most legislated and regulated, its situation is the most negative in Spain, with four times more than those presented in Madrid. Since 2019, the mechanisms that had been used to implement the urgent measures on the protection of mortgage debtors that had been launched by the People's Party are not being implemented with the effectiveness of previous years. Those citizens and families who suffer from extraordinary difficulties in paying their mortgage debt are being abandoned by the Government, just as they are being abandoned, I insist, small owners, private property. Answer me. Are you going to implement the measures contained in the Catalan and Balearic laws against the big forks, against the private initiative in this housing law that you have announced again today, a draft draft of the preliminary draft? Yes or no, Minister? You deny the occupation by system. Well, this very week the dean judge of Palma said that the occupation mainly affects small owners, those who have worked their entire life to own a property, and only 5% or 10% to banks or large forks. Minister, this is the balance sheet of your management. The rest? The rest is smoke and many alerts not to upset Catalonia. The rest of the autonomous communities do not care much. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u146	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u147	Thank you, President. The truth is that you like to practice preventive warfare. Before something happens they are already announcing the great calamities, that apocalyptic vision before entering to face the contents of things. He's talking about mortgage debtors. Fortunately, there has been a great deal of downsizing by mortgage debtors. The problem is that renters have been displaced. That's the problem, because the other one's come down quite a bit. I think I have given you enough data to confirm the difference in how to commit a policy, and it has everything to do with the resources, the public resources that you have allocated to housing and those that we are allocating. But it is also not that you started from a policy with few resources; no, when you arrived at the Government the State Housing Plan drastically fell from the resources that were being raised. It was a tremendous change, and the interest and priority one can devote to a policy is based on the resources one dedicates. If one does not allocate any resources, it is clear that it does not constitute any priority. You don't have to give him any other data. How many resources have you allocated to housing policy? How many were found and how many were destined? They put in a tremendous reduction, and now it's quite the opposite. You liberalized the soil, left everything to the market, lowered the budgets dedicated to housing, sold 3,000 homes in the Madrid Community for speculation, dismantling the small social housing stock. Is that your housing policy, like coming here to talk about housing? Do you know the memory I have of the trip to Palma in housing, beyond unlocking an old issue in Ibiza, which has been unlocked, and, indeed, that we are also negotiating with the Ministry of Defense about Son Busquets? The anecdote is that when I visited the works of the wall, they told me: That hotel was public ground for social housing. And what did the People's Party do? Sell it to make a hotel. That's his policy. [[Applauds]] They've got it plotted there. There is no need to do more: sell public land for housing for other more lucrative activities. That has always been the case; I have not suddenly understood that concern. Do you want to leave everything on the market? Indeed, the market is what it produces. But when it comes to safeguarding a right, we cannot leave everything to the market. This is a constitutional right, it is a basic right, on which the possibility of exercising other rights depends. Without housing one cannot go to education, health or work. It is a basic right, on which the possibility of other rights hinges, and therefore we have to commit ourselves to it. And you know how we get engaged? With resources; with resources, not with philosophy. And the resources are in the budgets, there clearly, and we're going to develop them. And I also agree, of course, with regard to investment funds, because they also have a responsibility and can do so. Beyond rescuing banks, it is now up to those funds to work together and for the Sareb to put it on. We've already set the amount and they're collaborating, because we're betting on the deal. As I said, there is a supply problem and therefore there has to be an alliance between the private and public sectors to make that supply possible. We must try to increase the social park with public resources and, at the same time, not deter private supply. That's what we're trying to reach an agreement on. I think you've put the bandage on before the wound occurs. I understand it's a preventive war: everything is calamitous. But I am convinced that our society wants less admonition, less premonition, less fatalism. What you need is hope, because there is a lot of desire to work, to live and enjoy. So, if you ever come up with something positive to encourage the staff, welcome, but, for bad omens and apocalypse, we already have too much to face with reality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u148	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE REAL REASONS FOR WHICH INDICATORS ARE GRANTED BY THE SECOND ROOM OF THE JUDGMENT 459/2009 OF THE SECOND ROOM OF THE SUPREME COURT WITHOUT COMPETITION OF THE LEGAL CASES FOR IT. [[File number 172/000127]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u149	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the actual grounds on which pardons are granted to those convicted by the judgment of the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, 459/2009, without bringing legal proceedings. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor for his defence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u150	Thank you very much. Minister, there are no legal grounds for granting pardons. And that doesn't say VOX, which was the only popular accusation in the trial from which the sentence from which you have today granted pardons was derived. It is also said by the Chamber Prosecutors unanimously, the four Chamber Prosecutors of the Supreme Court. I read you, literally: 'To grant pardon would be to empty from content the jurisdictional function and the enforcement of sentences, an inadmissible bankruptcy in terms of democratic legality, from the principle of equality before the law to the unwarranted and arbitrary privilege of the disloyal ruler. There is therefore no justification whatsoever for the granting of the pardon requested because there are no grounds for justice, fairness or public utility which can be used for granting it.' And the prosecutors continue to say: 'The pardon is an exceptional measure, it must be reserved for very special circumstances of justice, fairness or public utility, which are not given in this case and - attention to this, minister - which should never be identified with political motivations or derived from political agreements. Is it ringing? [[Applauds]] The prosecutors later say: 'This is not a planned measure to satisfy - attention - short-term political interests and which can be arbitrarily granted in general in the face of mere discrepancy with the content of the judgment or the pure convenience of a global political situation'. They say: 'The discretionary character of pardon - which is an insult - does not legitimize arbitrariness or the deviation of power or the removal of legality'. Look at what words, what clearer content than that of prosecutors. I ask you, Minister: If there are no legal reasons, what are the reasons for granting pardons? If this has not been sufficiently enlightening, at least listen to your fellow judges, the seven magistrates of the Supreme Court Criminal Chamber, the last and highest criminal court in Spain. They literally say, 'This Chamber cannot record in its report the slightest evidence, the weakest sign of repentance.' The judges later say: 'They lose any justification when they present themselves as political prisoners who have been the authors of a mobilization aimed at unilaterally subverting the constitutional order, to reverse the ordinary functioning of the institutions and, finally, to impose their own conscience against the convictions of the rest of the citizens'. And later these judges say: 'But this idea is not incompatible with the acceptance that a pluralistic society inspired by democratic values can demand by the penalty that the breaking of the foundations of coexistence never be the result of a unilateral decision supported by the misleading mobilization of a citizenship that irresponsibly is driven to build a new state that exists only in the imagination of its promoters'.' [[Applauds]] I conclude with the quote from that comprehensive report of the judges of the Second Chamber - let me be clear, Minister -: 'The best expression of the reasons why pardon is presented as an unacceptable solution for the anticipated extinction of criminal responsibility is because it expresses an undemocratic attitude in which the conscience and social commitment of each citizen authorizes it to spray the foundations of coexistence, to render ineffective the decisions issued by the judges and courts of a particular territory, to circumvent the legal means of reform of the legal system and, in the end, to violate the fundamental rights of those other citizens who do not commune with those principles or individual conscience'. I ask you again, Minister: If there are no legal reasons, what are the reasons for granting these pardons? I will tell you, Minister: Only reasons for the personal and political interest of Sánchez, his Government and his party. There's no other reason. [[Applauds]] And three very clear objectives, of which they no longer deceive anyone: first, to remain in power, in the Government of Spain at all costs, even if it is trampling on the Constitution, even if it is insulting the Spaniards, even if it is denigrating the judges and magistrates who have handed down this sentence, even if it is trampling on national sovereignty; for everything, against everything and above all, to remain in the Government; second, to self-indulge the beatingists, who in this House are the support of the Government, so that they can approve their budgets, so that they can pass their laws and that they can counter the motions of censorship presented to them; and third, that which presented us at the High School Theatre; certainly, good scenario that of Mr Sánchez, making theater, speaking to us from the heart, from the agreement, from the respect to present us this new country project. But who do you want to fool? What they want is to change the regime, what they want is to change the de facto Constitution, what they want is to accept that there is the right of self-determination and the plurality of Spain, what they want, in short, is to break national unity. That's the reality. [[Applauds]] But, Minister, there is a very clear, very clear and very defined line of which you will not be able to continue to deceive anyone, not even your own voters and affiliates. There is the line on which on one side we are talking about political prisoners, prisoners for having committed serious crimes, crimes of sedition, embezzlement, disobedience for having broken the law and for having given a coup d'état. On that side of the line, Minister, there is the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, there are the prosecutors of the Supreme Court, there are the State Security Forces and Corpses who investigated and arrested the coups, there is the popular accusation of VOX, who fought alone, and there are the vast majority of Spaniards, who believe in the rule of law and the laws.And on the other side, Minister, there are those who speak of political prisoners in a sort of Totalitarian State where there are no guarantees, where it is oppressed because of their ideas, where the law is applied by political repressive criteria. And there you are, Minister, and you yourself have declared publicly: 'I do not punish ideas, my Government does not pursue ideas'. What are you talking about? Are you implying that it is a political court the Supreme Court, which issued its judgement for political reasons? Are you saying that there is no rule of law, that here is pursued by ideas? [[Applauds]] You, your Government and the Socialist Party are committing a gigantic historical irresponsibility that you will, of course, pay for in the polls and in the courts. Many times in the speeches in these plenary our President has reminded you that you are an illegitimate government because you came in lying to your constituents. He said that he would never kneel before the coup, that he would never bargain with the floetras, that he would never give in to the pressures of communism. They lied. That's why we said they were an illegitimate government. Today, Minister, in this House we say: You are a predatory government, an illegal government. [[Applauds]] Minister, you ended up asking him: If there are no legal reasons, if there are only reasons for the personal interest of Sánchez, his government and his party and the coup partners who support him, can you look into the eyes of his fellow professionals, judges and judges who comply with the law and make judgements in accordance with justice and execute those sentences because they believe in the rule of law and in the principles of justice, fairness or public utility? Can you look them in the eye and tell them there is justification for these pardons? Can you look into each and every one of the agents of the State Security Forces and Corps who investigated, fought and were assaulted - the IPU, the GRS, the National Police - and tell them that there are reasons for these pardons? Can you look at those millions of Catalans who feel insulted, threatened, despised in their own land by totalitarian coups and tell them that there are reasons for these pardons? Can you, in short, look to the face of the majority of Spaniards, that we comply with the law, respect the Constitution and respect the judgments of the courts of justice, and tell us to the face that there are reasons for justice? [[Applauds]] Minister, you could only look at the faces of the magistrates, the agents of the State Security Forces and Corpses, the Catalans and, in short, the vast majority of the Spaniards if you presented your resignation as a minister, abandon this traitorous and felonous government and say that it is not acceptable to pardon the coupsmen, trample national sovereignty and end the slightest principle of justice in the rule of law. That's the only way out, Minister. The other you know well: to remain the felon minister of a felon government of a felon party, of which the Spaniards will ask for accounts. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u151	Thank you. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the Minister for Justice. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ortega, science has not yet established the relationship between truth and decibels, but I am sure that this test would not pass. [[Applauds]] I'm sorry to hear that, because you know the only thing that proves it? The lack of respect he has for the democratic institutions of this country. We have just heard in his mouth extraordinary words about what the secessionism of democracy could hold, with the usual retaliatory of thick words, flagrant disrespect and impudent noises. I will dispense with those who employ my person: do not offend, but I can assure you that, of course, we are not making democracy great. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you only understand the ex-abrupt, and I can tell you that I no longer know whether you are more and better punctuating the contempt for the pardons or the contempt you make of the government. It is certainly a lack of our democratic system that part of your public representatives, and in this House, Mr Ortega, are able to express your views in a way as poor as you have just done. Just the insult and disqualification in his mouth. [[Applauds]] In any case, your intervention serves as an example of what the Government intends with the action it adopted yesterday. The pardons to the independence leaders constitute a gesture of concord, an appeal to the coexistence between Catalans, and between Catalans and the rest of Spanish, to all those you want to eliminate. The discourse of unilateral independence, as well as that of the frentism that we have just heard in his interpellation, are the poles of a tension that has been troubling our country for far too long. This Government wants to replace this paradigm of confrontation with a sustained country project on the old constitutional values of unity, pluralism - pluralism, Mr Ortega, difference, respect for each other - and coexistence; a project that is a majority one, where all speeches belong, even yours - see if our Constitution and our democracy are generous -, Your Honor, that of you and that of Oriol Junqueras, but where those speeches are articulated through democratic institutions that we decide among all; not among you, among all. Nobody has to give up their legitimate political aspirations in Spain that we want, but nobody can impose them. And do not interpret my words if you do not understand them, because it will lead us to a bad path. When I say and repeat it, and I will withdraw it as many times as it is necessary, that our country, our democracy do not pursue ideas, I am not offending the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court tried the facts and condemned them, and it will not have heard a word from this minister or from this Government against that sentence. What I am telling you is that this government and, despite your weight, will not pursue ideas. Your Honor, this country project is exemplified by the measure of grace that we adopted yesterday and which will allow us to take a decisive step in a more united, more plural and more peaceful Spain, no matter how much you do otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, during these weeks I have often been asked about pardons. I answered them, I think politely, saying, "Now it doesn't touch." And it didn't touch, because we were analyzing the situation, evaluating the alternatives and weighing different interests at stake. From the Ministry of Justice we wanted to give these dossiers and, above all, to the citizenry a thoughtful and responsible response, but I always showed myself willing to explain the decision once made. Now play, now Mr. Ortega, now. That is why I am not going to enter into their disqualifications, I am not interested, but I do want to use these minutes to account for reasons and reasons that support the decision made yesterday by the Government to partially pardon nine people sentenced to high sentences for a serious crime. There are, ladies and gentlemen, reasons for public benefit, which is called the general interest. Mr Ortega, I don't even want you to understand it, just to listen to me, because that is the essence of democracy: to hear the other, not to take your place if you don't need to, but to know how to respect it, which you demonstrate with your words that you don't do. In fact, there is no greater public satisfaction than democratic strength and improved coexistence. This Government, as the President has clearly and forcefully explained, wants the best for this country and looks to the future. To forgive does not mean to forget, to forgive means to give oneself another opportunity to be able to do better as a country and as a citizen. The condemned independence leaders have made many mistakes and have paid a high criminal price for it, but the just reproach of those mistakes cannot be put before a common future, a future that overcomes those mistakes in a new framework of reconciliation and reunion, and for that common future it is for what this Government has bet. But I would like to go a little further than the reasons for public utility that justify pardons and that I already know. As required by the Pardon Act, as Minister of Justice, I have been responsible for preparing the motion for the resolution of such pardons, as with any other one. In this case, and in view of its particular sensitivity, this proposal for a pardon includes an extensive justification for both legal and political reasons. We have especially wanted to be rigorous in the legal analysis, among other things to avoid their confusion and to deny bubbles like those you have just formulated. We can discuss the convenience or the correctness of the measure, I admit, but I think it is out of place to raise its illegality or its illegitimacy. It is a crude attempt to confuse the citizenry, something in which they put a lot of effort. Ladies and gentlemen, pardon is a prerogative of grace that has been constant in our legal system and that is a mechanism present in most of the contemporary constitutions of those countries in which we look. Even the European Court of Human Rights requires in certain cases that criminal systems have systems of clemency. Currently, in our country, the legal framework for pardon comes - and you know it very well or should know it - in the Constitution, article 62, and is developed in a law of 1870 with the amendments of 1988. It is defined as a form of extinction of criminal responsibility that occurs as a result of a decision of the Council of Ministers. It is a governmental power that is characterized by two notes - this is important, Mr Ortega -: discretion and exceptionality. This is highlighted both by the Constitution and by the abundant jurisprudence of the Third Chamber that this Government and this minister are looking at and following. The granting or denial of a pardon by the Government in exercise of that power of its own is an essentially graceful and discretionary act; the essence of the grace given is precisely that maximum discretion, that broad freedom available to the Government to resolve. The Government exercises this power by acting as a political body, not as head of the Administration. Mr Ortega, don't take this the wrong way, but I recommend a rereading of the judgment of the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, of November 20, 2013, and one of the competing particular votes, especially that of Luis María Díez-Picazo, because they will surely enlighten you. The granting of a pardon also entails the extinction, or reduction, or replacement of the sentence; it therefore has the effect of derogating from a final sentence. Pardon is therefore an exceptional mechanism that is placed in the hands of the Government in order to provide equally exceptional situations. Therefore, the first truth before their lies: the pardons are completely legal, completely legitimate. It is a discretionary action - which is not arbitrary - and part of an absolute respect for the sentence, without altering their reasoning or questioning one of their precepts. The final judgment of the sentencing court is irremovable. Once this is clarified, let's see which people meet the requirements for pardon. As provided for in the Constitution, no general pardons may be granted. This is not the case, since nine individualized pardons have been granted, with specific and specific motivation on each of them. Secondly, pardons may not be granted to those who have recidivized, who have not been convicted by a final judgement or who are not at the disposal of the sentencing court. That's not the case either. And, thirdly, sedition offences are not exempt from pardon; precisely in such crimes - as you well know and, if not, review article 29 of the Pardon Act, which will illustrate it - they can be done even without hearing the sentencing court in advance. Nor are we, much less, faced with a possible self-indulgence, no matter how much you want to be jealous of that. Article 102 is clear; it is clear and knows very well how exceptions are interpreted in the world of law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is no legal impediment to agreeing on a measure of grace such as that decided yesterday by the Council of Ministers. Nor is it true that the reports of the sentencing court and the prosecutor's office are binding. He has spent five minutes reading them; I can assure you that this minister has spent hours studying them, understanding them and assimilating them. And, indeed, they make clear and clear references to their opinion and based on functions or reasons of justice or equity. Of course, neither the sentencing court nor the prosecutor's office must enter into the public interest, which is precisely one of the three possibilities granted by the Pardons Act and which, according to its article 11, must be evaluated in order to motivate and focus on the reasons for such an exceptional measure. It is not true that the reports are of this binding nature, as I insist; they can be requested by the interested parties or by anyone else. And they are also very clear that repentance is not a necessary condition for its granting; however, it has been taken very carefully into account in the individualized motivation what its behavior has been in relation to its confrontation with the legal system. Hence - I invite you to reflect on this - when these circumstances occur, because from there depends very much on the conditionality that has been put into the royal decrees, which goes from 3 to 6 years, and essentially revolves around this issue. I don't know if this bean of the pardons I just gave you will do you any good. I believe that it is not because, when you do not want to hear, the words are left; but I am not going to tire of repeating it in this House for the sake of the citizenry, which is the only one we owe all of us here. Your Honor, the unity of Spain is guaranteed by the Constitution, but coexistence is a matter that depends on each and every day, and you are not contributing to it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u153	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u154	Mr Minister, in a reply everyone understands that it goes up with notes that have been taken on the march after listening to your interlocutor, what is not understood is that in his first intervention he already brings the perfectly finished writing on what I have said, without having heard it before. Minister, you spoke of terms such as agreement between the Catalans; you spoke of the paradigm of confrontation and coexistence. Please, Minister, explain to the Spaniards what it has to do with the agreement, confrontation and coexistence to kidnap a lawyer from the Administration of Justice for hours when she was doing the registration of the Treasury Board... [[Applauds]] What has to do with the agreement, confrontation and coexistence of those who cut off roads and train tracks, who stormed the polling stations, who hit the police and the Civil Guard. Explain to us why, either we're all very silly, or you're out of your minds thinking that others don't realize it. And, by the way, do not make equidistance between those who defend the Constitution, those who were popular accusations of the coup, those who disobey the Supreme Court's rulings, and those who are the perpetrators. [[Applauds]] We've only seen that equidistance between the victims and the killers. We have nothing to do with the thugs, and you know it. We're the ones in front of you, we're your containment wall. We sit them on the bench and we will re-sit them, with your Government or with another Government, as we had already had to do before. [[Applauds]] You speak, Minister, of public utility. What's going on? That the seven judges of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court are not correct in their interpretation? I remind you that they had a good knowledge of the evidence. What's going on? That the State Security Forces and Bodies do not agree in their forceful reports on the coup d'état? Isn't the DA's office right either? You don't agree with this popular accusation, do you? You're the only one who's right? Can't you see you're trying to disguise a reality that falls by your own weight? Those of us who were at the trial, those who know what they did, most of the Spaniards who wanted to know the truth know who they are, what they did and what they intend to do. And you're talking about forgiveness. Forgive who? Forgive anyone who doesn't even recognize that he has committed a crime? Forgive those who say over and over again that they do not regret anything? To forgive those who over and over again, as active and passive, say that they will do so again, put ultimatums on them and say that if their idyllic independence is not declared, they will do so again with more force and strength? Do you not realize that what they are doing is weakening the State so that if they try again we will have fewer and fewer weapons, as they claim with this reform of the Penal Code? [[Applauds]] Minister, don't do legal or legal trilling, discretion and exceptionality are things other than arbitrariness, and you have been reminded of the reports of the Supreme Court and the prosecutors, those to which you say you have devoted so many hours - I have also devoted many hours, but I didn't think to read them whole, given the fact that you had done so -, which make it very clear that there is no need to confuse discretion and exceptionality in granting pardons with arbitrariness for political reasons and interests. They have nothing to do with it. Don't want to fool us, don't deceive yourself. Maybe some congressman on your bench is cheating on you because you don't distinguish between the Supreme and a cow, but you really know what we're talking about. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And of course we will, of course, appeal these pardons to the Third Chamber of the Supreme Court, and we will do so because we have legitimacy to do so and we hope that sooner that Third Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative will say, as it may say in many other matters, such as the appointment of its State Attorney General or the states of alarm, which were illegal, that all the rules were missed. Minister, end of story. Those who did not even ask for the pardons for cowards and have asked others for them, those who did not show recognition, those who claim to do so again, do not deserve these pardons and do need you to protect them to continue in the Government. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u155	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] To conclude the debate, the Minister of Justice has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ortega, I admit almost everything to you, but I cannot stand for anyone to insult and disrespect any of the Members who sit in this House, let alone those of the Socialist Group. [[Applauds]] Mr. Ortega, it's curious how someone who's spent six and a half minutes reading two reports from the prosecutor's court. When anyone has the debate you want and no papers. [[Applauds]] Any time. Look, you're still with your ultra baton, you're still with your baton because it's the only thing you have and you're anchored in facts that were tried by the Supreme Court, by your Second Chamber, with a sentence that convicted twelve people for very serious acts, but do you know that of non bis in idem? Do you remember? Does the non bis in idem sound like anything to you? They are already judged, therefore, now we must look forward. Does that sound like the resocializing end of the sentences to you? Does that sound like anything to you? Because it should sound like it. Look, you haven't understood - and here let me be at least hard, without reaching the disqualification and insult that you do because you will never find me there - what is arbitrariness, what is discretion, and what is motivation is not understood. When the Third Chamber, in its judgment of 20 November 2013, the Chamber's plenary agreement, makes reference to this mention, what it clearly says is that it must be motivated, because it is a question of being able to analyse that the requirements that mark the law have been met, and that it must be explained and motivated, and then explain the reasons that lead, whether of justice, fairness or public utility. That is what the Supreme Court demands, and I repeat to you again what I have told you before, a particular competing vote of Luis María Díez-Picazo, a particular competing vote of Don Carlos Lesmes. Read it because they're going to illustrate it. The motivation goes on that concept, it is not a faculty why it is a competence of the Government, and when I told you that the pardons granted yesterday by the Council of Ministers are based on absolute respect for the judgment of the Second Chamber, it has no fissures; part of the absolute respect, but the times of justice ended there and with the execution, and now it is the time of Article 62 of the Constitution, it is time to look to the future and that those to whom we care about coexistence put everything that can be useful for it. What I'm telling you is that these people committed serious acts and they didn't get away for free. They have been in prison for three years and eight months and they have absolute disqualification in the terms you know because you were a party - you have told us several times - and exercised popular action. But don't you really think that manifestations like renouncing the unilateral path must be exploited? I am not sure of the success of yesterday's pardons, I will not tire of saying it, but what I am sure is that a government has to put everything in its hand so that the coexistence between Spaniards is what we gave ourselves in the 1978 Constitution, which you are trying to break, but you will not succeed, Mr Ortega, you will not succeed. [[applause]] They won't make it because the Spaniards will know who they have to be with. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Socialist Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal, on the other hand, from the Socialist Group and from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u157	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u158	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry, by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the rise of the electric bill. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u159	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months the Spaniards, in addition to fighting the pandemic, we have to endure the energy policies of the Government, a government that is generating social concern, which is looting the pocket of the Spaniards, a government that is ruining families, the autonomous and the SMEs as well as increasing energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, you protest against the opposition and silent looting in the government, this is the sixth opportunity we give you to lower the price of light. I hope that once and for all you will leave your trenches, rectify and do something because your energy policy is worrying. First, the price of the butane, which has been chaining ten months of climbs. [[Show a chart]] Do you know who buys the butane candy, ladies and gentlemen of the demographic challenge? Consumers in rural and inland Spain, who are paying the most expensive butane in recent years for cooking or showering, are up 21 %. Second, the price of gas. [[Show a chart]] Filling our car deposit today comes out 12% more expensive than at the beginning of the year and we are at the highest prices in the last seven years. And you know who pays for this? The thirty million vehicles that travel through Spain, but above all it affects taxi drivers, transporters, distributors, truckers and farmers, those who use the vehicle to earn a living, who are seeing their costs increase and increase every day and the government threatens to increase them more. And, of course, the solution to all this from the fourth vice president is electrification. [[Show a chart]] She and she alone decide to apply the largest blast ever given to consumers, with this tariff change that implies the increase in energy price up to 73% in peak hours. Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the left, this is getting out of hand. Everything they touch destroys it. Three essential and universal energy consumptions - light, butane and gasoline - at historical maximum levels that directly attack the family economy, and here no one gets colored. Why? Because behind all this and its complacency lies the desire for looting families. Ladies and gentlemen, the only party that has put forward in this legislature a proposal for the reduction of the bill for light has been the People's Party; this is the sixth time we do it! And we brought a proposal for silence, which we have been demanding for over a year because we knew it was coming on us. [[applause]] From the General Budgets of the State to today with this motion following an urgent inquiry last week are six times! And what has the left always voted for? Not the discount on the light bill. But, look, the sectarian, the cynical, the hypocritical left I'm going to give you two reasons to suppress 7% of electricity generation. And don't tell me again that it's a tax that Rajoy created because we already know it; it was created in 2012 and we had to do it to rescue the renewables, to rescue the cogeneration and to rescue the Spanish electricity system, which left it broken, in ruin and with a deficit of 27 billion euros, after Zapatero gave to the electric billion euros, among other things by the suppression of the CTCs. And it was created to reduce or leave the system with surplus and so today it can remove the tax. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a reason for weight. Go to the Journal of Sessions and look, when this law was passed, what the PSOE said, because it seemed to you confiscatory, unconstitutional, unnecessary, even presented an amendment to the whole! Now what? Every time we discuss this proposal, the tax seems wonderful and they justify it; a tax that, by the way, was created when the energy price was 45 euros, today it is 90!, double! Anyway, do it for consistency. Are you going to be consistent? I wish they were, but I don't expect much from you. And the second reason I am going to give you is because you are responsible for the spectacular rise of light and for the political costs being much more expensive than the energy itself. Have you made an account of what that blast is about for the fare change? Have they stopped to calculate it? Because I did stop to calculate it. Only this measure has meant that in the first fifteen days of application in June there will be some over-income for this measure of 60 million euros, to take away 1.5 million euros a year from families! And have they accounted for what it has meant to increase the collection for the price of electricity? Because I too have done this: EUR 500 million more for VAT, EUR 200 million more for electricity tax, EUR 550 million more for electricity production tax, EUR 200 million more for indirect taxes on hydroelectric and nuclear power, EUR 12 billion more for CO2 emissions rights. That is to say, EUR 2650 million more only in taxes. If we add this to the new bill - which is going to be done at the cost of impoverishing consumers - the only one who wins here is the government, that is why its reluctance always to lower the bill of light. This is an extraordinary increase by a regulatory decision, which obliges them to take very concrete measures to reduce the bill for light. In these days we have seen how Podemos has made of minister of ecological transition, has made of minister of finance, usurping these competences and announcing a decrease of VAT. Quickly, the PSOE has had to go out and correct Podemos to say that the VAT reduction will not be permanent and will not be universal but will be limited. From here to tomorrow, let's see if it gets applied and how. What we do know is that you have become your enemies to the self-employed and to the SMEs and leave them out when they are most in need, and we already know that you will not apply this VAT reduction if it occurs. The proposal of the People's Party is simple: to eliminate 7% permanently, to return to a regulatory system such as the previous one, that Ceuta, Melilla, the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands are the subject of a territorial policy and not an energy policy. The Government is entrenched in its sectarianism, it wants to take another path simply because this proposal comes from the People's Party. We don't care. It is your responsibility to lower the price of light and we have taught you the way, and if the sixth goes the vanquished and all the pressure, all the proposals, all the requests of this group lead to lower the light, welcome be, but if your VAT discount wants to camouflage it, they want to compensate it with the increase of the IRPF, of more taxes on gasoline, rise, create or put any other tax, know that they will find us in front of more climbs and more sands to the Spaniards. When a maximum efficiency is the price drop, if you see that you...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u160	Your Honor, you must finish. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u161	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u162	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u163	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, 22 June, the Government of Spain pardoned the coups, but not on my behalf. I am beginning this way, ladies and gentlemen, because we are faced with a very serious episode of our democracy which, moreover, is directly related to the proposal we are debating here today, because this unscrupulous government, which is capable of defending one thing and the opposite, is even capable of playing with the bill of light to try to cover up the infamy of selling our democracy to pieces. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, if pardons are so wonderful, if they benefit so much from concord, why do they play, to cover them up, with measures as important to the Spanish as if they were advertisements? It's just that I can imagine the meeting you had in Moncloa: - No, no, no, Hey, looks like our pardons are choking, what can we do to cover this up a little bit? What do we do? - Well, look, let's copy the initiative from the masks to Citizens, take off the masks on the 26th and it's all fixed, people won't remember that we've pardoned the thugs. - Oh, no! It takes more. This is pretty fat. We know that the Spaniards do not agree and we need something stronger. - Well, it's okay, we're back to copying the Citizens' proposal, which has been asking for many initiatives for months to reduce VAT temporarily from 21 to 10 % and the 7 % tax on electricity generation. But we're not going to do it for everyone alike, we're going to do it just for some, because that's how we work: we only benefit some. To some who already know how we benefit them, with pardons. And today the People's Party proposes to abolish a tax that it once considered super important. A tax that, if it does not exist, the budgetary imbalance would be worrying and serious. And I ask them: have they really told the Spaniards, those who have visited to collect signatures, that if they take that tax off they will pay it otherwise? Now they don't care about budget balance? Do you really believe that CO2 emission allowances solve the problem? Sincerely, you are a party of government, you have said so many times and you really believe that if you were in government today you would carry this proposal forward? Honestly, I don't think so. Citizens have called on several initiatives and amendments to the Group of the European People's Party to reduce the rate of VAT temporarily and temporarily suspend 7% of electricity generation. These are urgent and temporary measures which now seem to the Socialist Party to be good measures and are going to be implemented. We thank them for listening to us again because that's how they show that Citizens do a useful policy, but we have to keep working because there are many structural problems and that's where we have the problem, that's where the Spanish have the problem when it comes to paying the bill for light. And it is that we need to reform the electricity system, we need to make an integral review of energy taxation, we need to create mechanisms to boost cheap technologies, we need to guarantee security of supply, we need to prevent the volatility that will cause increasing dependence on renewable energy... A lot of things have to be done. Bring it here; let's look at the reform of the electricity system, let's talk about the sustainability fund, don't they say that's the solution? Let's do it. In short, gentlemen of the PP, we are not the first to reduce the bill of light, nor the only ones, you know that no, you know that it is not the only group that has registered an initiative in this regard, to the extent that our proposal is going to be approved by the Government, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us do it right, let us do it better than them, not at any price. That is why I tell you to accept our amendment. And if you don't want to do it for the Spaniards who have gone to collect the signature, do it to make it difficult for the government. Make it hard for him. Accept our amendment and you will see how you have to go about voting that yes. And if they still have the nerve to vote no and approve Friday they will prove that what they wanted with this measure was not to help the Spaniards, because they could have done it months ago, but they are doing it now to cover up the pardons. Let's put it on that brete. Accept our amendment, you will see that we will be able to unmask this government that only supports the coups. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u164	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group - this time they will also fix a position - Mr Rego Candamil has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. The rise in electricity in recent weeks is unacceptable and unjustifiable, and it is not only a result of the new pricing, but a regulation designed for greater business of the big electrics, who each year present indecent accounts of results while being given a new deck to the popular classes. A regulation to which the PP is not alien, on the contrary, was one of its main drivers, since Law 54/1997, on Liberalization of the Electrical Sector, to the privatization of the public enterprise Endesa, in 1998, or to Law 24/2013, currently in force. This is why the BNG advocates a new regulation of the electricity sector that meets social criteria and passes through public control; nationalize the large electricity companies, set up a Galician public company and own electricity tariff as a surplus producing country. As immediate measures, those of the Government are clearly insufficient. Lowering VAT to 4%, abolishing the 5% excise duty, preventing the impact of the tax on production or removing non-production and consumption costs and tolls are minimum and essential measures to curb the current escalation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Requena was talking about the butane candy. Do you know who privatized Gas Natural? The PP, Aznar. And who privatized Repsol and the electric Endesa? Aznar, the PP, and then Aznar signed for Endesa for 200,000 euros a year. That's one of the problems. When there are former presidents of the government, ministers of both parties, who end up in the electrics paying 200,000 euros a year is for something; here is something. The decrease of VAT is a good measure, temporary, it is a patch, but until we reach the bone will not bring down the light in an important way. What's the bone? Precisely calculate what it costs to produce light, not pay for something that really isn't worth it, not give businesses money fallen from heaven a month and a month, a year and a year. Until we do an audit of the electrical system, until we know what it costs to produce that light and keep paying too much, this is not going to be fixed. It seems to me that there is very little interest in the People's Party and the Socialist Party in this to be done and done once and for all with this marginalist market, which is all it does is marginalize ordinary people from having a quality and cheap public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Finally, Mr Bel Accensi has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u169	Thank you, President. If we are allowed, first of all, a strong embrace and many records - and very happy - to Carmel, Dolors, Jordi, Oriol, Raül, Quim, Josep, Jordi and Jordi. [[Applauds]] A few minutes ago they just got out of a long and unfair prison. A new stage is under way. Nothing closes, but opportunities open up. You'll have to take advantage of them. This is a motion resulting from an inquiry that is very similar to a bill that has already been tabled by the People's Party. We already told them at that time that we do not support it, and we reproduce all the reasons why we do not support it, among other things because it has a certain short-term character. Here the spokesman has said that a year ago the People's Party has been concerned about the bill for light. I think it's not for a year, it's been more recently, a few months ago. What we regret is that they were not concerned five, eight or ten years ago, when they had absolute majority and when VAT rose from 18% to 21%, when they imposed the tax on electricity production, from 0% to 7%. One can rectify, but when it comes to rectification it also has to be consistent in the form of rectification. I told this to you the last time and I now tell you again to the People's Party and the Socialist Party. It is not a problem that will be resolved by motions resulting from interpellation or by actual decree-laws passed on a temporary basis. This is going to be resolved with a great pact, they would have to make a great pact to reform the electricity sector and all that is pricing and the tax system. As long as you don't do this, we'll go put on patches. Our parliamentary group presented an initiative in January to reduce the VAT on electricity bills for ordinary dwellings from 21% to 10%. The Government will do it in part, we will see what the resolution is and our group will stand at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the VOX Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Errás Pabón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Bertolt Brecht once wrote that when hypocrisy begins to be of very poor quality, it is time to start telling the truth. But despite the terrible hypocrisy shown by this government - which continues to lie and act with the same cowardice with which it acts every time it kneels in front of its coup partners, nullifying even firm rulings of the Supreme Court so as to perpetuate itself a little longer in power - here VOX comes again to tell the truth to the Spaniards. The first truth I want to emphasize, and which you are trying to hide systematically, is that the ecological transition and its climate policies are expensive, very expensive; and not only that, but this government has also decided who will pay the bill: all the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] This already warned VOX when we were the only party to oppose frontally its sectarian Climate Change Act, so I don't know what face the surprised, gentlemen of the government face with the consequences of their own climate policies. The second truth is that you are the main beneficiaries of the huge price increase in CO2 emissions allowances, which, as you know, has multiplied by two in the past year, exceeding the 50 euro per tonne barrier. Therefore, if the Government planned for this exercise to raise some EUR 11 billion and instead will raise twice as much, i.e. more than EUR 22 billion, gentlemen of the Government, why do they not dedicate those EUR 11 billion, which have fallen from the sky, in order to reduce to all Spaniards the charges and tolls of their electricity bill, as we have already proposed from our parliamentary group? Of course, it is easier for you to plunder companies, it is easier to cut the revenues of hydroelectric and nuclear companies precisely because they do not emit CO2, despite the fact that these companies and these types of technologies are essential to reduce the electricity bill to all Spaniards. That is, if they issue, the Government will charge them; but if they do not, the Government will also charge them. [[Applauds]] So, what's the point of all this, gentlemen of the government? It doesn't make any sense. However, although their climate policies do not make any sense, what they do have serious consequences for all Spaniards, for example, that millions of citizens have to pay the most expensive electricity bill in history - I repeat, the most expensive bill - with almost 10% of the population suffering from severe energy poverty; or that our SMEs and industries see how their competitiveness crumbles, even some of them fall directly into ruin; or that thousands of pensioners freeze cold in winter or suffocate themselves with heat in summer because their thermal social bonus turns out that it does not exempt them from paying the huge increase in the electricity bill and neither does it free them from their new stubborn system of light tariffs; or, for example, that thousands of Spanish people with chronic lung diseases, who have to stay connected more than 16 hours a day to oxygen, see how their bill is going to raise an average of 600 euros a year. Or are you also going to ask these sick people to make an effort and breathe only during the valley hours? [[Applauds]] The third truth is that, again, this government lies again. The reduction in the VAT on the electricity bill by 10% is another deception to the Spaniards, because they announce that they are going to reduce the VAT to 10% and then put in small letters that will be temporary and will only apply for contracted powers of up to 10 kilowatts - which means that they leave apart from the households and practically all SMEs, businesses and self-employed - this is laughing at the Spaniards. Because, as you will know, many of these SMEs and self-employed people will not be able to deduct the VAT borne, for example, in health or educational activities. So this is too cynical even for you. Gentlemen of the government, it's called tax slavery. And again the result of their improvisation, they fall into another contradiction penalizing electrification. That is to say, whoever bought, for example, an electric vehicle following his own instructions, now turns out to be paying twice as much VAT as his neighbour. How can they refuse the permanent reduction of the electricity tax and VAT of 4 % proposed by VOX and which they have been proposing for months and, however, make such a stubble whose sole objective is to get another false holder for their subsidized means?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u172	Mrs. Borrás, I'd have to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u173	Yeah, I'm done. The only thing I am going to say to you, Socialist and Communist gentlemen, is that we are eager for you to leave the government and return to the opposition to listen to them again with the same arduousness as when you rule calling for the drop in the receipt of light. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. This initiative of the People's Group urges the Government to take steps to put an end to a scam in the form of a receipt of light to which the energy transition measures that began to be proposed three years ago, with the arrival of Pedro Sánchez in Moncloa, following the motion of censure, and Vice-President Teresa Ribera to a ministry from which she has gradually managed to reach a record electricity bill in history, which the Government's propaganda now assures is going to attenuate with a variety of VAT-free days which, as is known, is a strategy to hunt infidels. Ladies and gentlemen, the receipt of light from an average user has risen by 46,5% in the first three weeks of this June, compared to the same period last year. No one is free today from the dire consequences of the energy policy of a government that, under the pretext of climate change, has dragged families, businesses, industries and all Spaniards to unbearable electricity tariffs, which crush the domestic user, bully industry, penalize competitiveness and multiply unemployment in a country hit by unemployment. From Asturias some of us anticipate here the effects of the express and radical decarbonization that has led Spain to do the opposite to other European and world countries, with the renunciation of our energy sovereignty after disregarding the coal, the only autochthonous fossil fuel that we have in Spain, that fed the thermal power plants closed manu militari, without socio-economic alternative for the regions where they worked - the case of Nalón and Tineo -, that guaranteed the supply without recourse to external sources of backup such as gas, that they increase the receipt, along with the tax gallimacies that apply in each receipt to collect more, more and more. This calamity of government is impoverishing Spain at a rapid pace. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u177	Thank you, President. First of all, of course, a hug to all the political prisoners and prisoners who are on the street today. Regarding the PP's motion and what it proposes, we make our own the words of the UN spokesman Podemos Pablo Echenique, who said the following: 'The first thing that surprises us is the bell that is made to lower the VAT of light. You know why? Because lowering VAT does not cost electricity a single euro. That is, it reduces the State's income by harming health, education or dependence.' These were his words at the beginning of the year. Now I guess I wouldn't subscribe to it, I even think he's deleted this tweet. We agree, of course, that the bill for light must be lowered; we even agree that, as a basic supply, it can have reduced VAT, but what we do not agree is that this is the only measure. We can easily understand it with numbers, with figures. With this decrease in VAT, the state will no longer enter between 1000 and 13 billion euros. However, what have been the benefits of energy companies in the year 2020? Iberdrola, EUR 3600 million, and Endesa, EUR 1394 million. The central problem is that with a basic supply no one should be enriched. The central problem is that energy is not public and that it belongs to oligopolies, whose main objective is simply and simply to distribute dividends. That is the central problem, the disproportionate problem of oligopolies, electricity and energy companies. Any left-wing government should begin by limiting this power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. The proponent of the People's Party said that when we talk about this issue, about the effects of the electric bill, no one gets colored. I am going to talk about realities and uncomfortable data for many of the honourable Members of this House, and I hope that no one will get colored either - really, I am not too worried if that happens - but I am going to transfer some data to frame the debate and continue the stream of data that has been offered. The Spanish state has an installed power of 108 gigawatts. According to scientific experts, with this power, it would be enough to supply the whole of the Spanish energy system. But there is still more: with the bet for renewables you want to reach 181 gigawatts. Another fact: electricity consumption continues to fall gradually, year by year, since 2008. And another fact: electricity is only 20% of the total energy consumed. With this data-it is also necessary to be a scholar in economics -, that someone explains to us how, if the demand falls and the market is over stocked, the receipt of light is even more expensive. What part of the law of supply and demand decides not to be complied with in this case? I mean, there's a lot of supply, there's little demand and what we find is increasingly expensive light prices. Perhaps what we have to do is look at those who operate and those who act in this reality, who are the oligopoly of the four major companies: Endesa, Iberdrola, Naturgas and EDP. I think we can talk about an organized cartel of companies that determine the price and cost of electricity in the Spanish State. And I think we should talk about lords of light, more than beings of light, because these people of beings of light seem to have little when they cut the power supply or when they are negotiating with friends like Mr Villarejo and end up imputed, read Mr Galán or Mr Fainé. But let's go to more data. Let's see what the profits of these companies have been in 2020: Endesa, €1394 million of net profit; Iberdrola, €3610.7 million of net profit; Naturg Y, €490 million of net profit; and EDP, €556 million of net profit. These, the companies that cut off the light to those who can't afford it, have had these benefits. Can anyone really still come out here and say that the only one who wins this whole debate is the government and not these companies that you systematically take your face out for? I know why they take their faces for them, and more and more people know it, because it is likely that they find it uncomfortable to undermine the position of José María Aznar or Ángel Acebes on the boards of directors of the companies I have cited. How uncomfortable it can be for the Socialist Party's ladies and gentlemen to strike at the presence of Felipe González or Elena Salgado in those same companies. But that is the sad reality that is happening in this state. And what is the proposal put forward by the People's Party? Lower taxes; well, lower no, eliminate taxes, from 7 to 0. They answer when they can to this question - not to me, to whom it can be asked -: how do they intend to sustain all the public spending of a state: roads, health, education, health, social policies, if what we do is not collect or collect less and less? But they propose more things, they propose to remove the costs to electricity. With these benefits that I have pointed out, do you think difficulties are going on? Do you think these companies fasten their belts to arrive at the end of the month? Do you believe that these companies are benevolent to the people who are cut off from the light and that we still have to help them more? Do you really believe that the state is going to continue to fatten these companies even more? Perhaps it is real - I am not naive - that these companies send much more than many of the ladies and gentlemen here, even send more than the governments, because they have the real power to put and take away. But they say more, they say we have to cancel the debt of the electricity sector and pay through General State Budgets, that we pay it among all of them. Why don't you ever raise this for pensions? Why do they never suggest that pensions can be paid through General State Budgets? Why does there have to be an Austrian backpack full of stones? Because they don't care, because what they care about is that everyone's money goes to businesses. [[Mr. Requena Ruiz makes gestures]] Don't do this to me because it's so true what I'm pointing out to you. And they propose more, they propose to simplify the model of tolls and loads. Be honest, you'd better take them all off, wouldn't you? A free tax, let's make it totally free for companies to keep doing what they do. Faced with that, we are proposing something very different - and I am not going to go that far, although I would like, with the 'expropiese' they were saying in other latitudes - but what should be done is to put an end to oligopoly because that is not even free market, because the free market goes far below what this oligopoly is doing. More public intervention would have to be done. Remember the Enel case, that no one is telling me that in Europe you can't, because Enel is an Italian public company that now owns Endesa, the Endesa that has finished privatizing another lord of light - not to be of light - like Rodolfo Martín Villa, the minister of March 3rd of Gasteiz. And, frankly, reducing VAT to 10% is a tirite; it is a tirite because the only thing it does is that it is collected less by the state, but nothing will help in the bill of people's light in substantial terms. What needs to be done is to confront these four companies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u180	Mr. Matute, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u181	...and on the side of the millions of people they cheat on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-Vasco Nationalist Party]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u183	Thank you, President. Once again, turn around with the light. You have said this before, Mr Requena, you already have six times on this subject. And it is true, weeks ago we discussed a GNP in this House, last week a GNP in the Commission and today a motion for a subsequent call to lower the price of light. But there is one thing that surprises me, because today they have also tabled a motion in the Senate and yet they do not request the same thing as here. So, I wonder what measures are there to urge the government, the ones here today or those that are going to urge in the Senate today as well? Because it is true that they are practically the same, but while in one they talk about deadlines and, for example, in the first point, in the tax on the generation, they talk about going down from 7% to 0% permanently, in the Senate, no. And the same with the costs and extra costs of peninsulars, extra costs that have to be removed from the bill. Here they talk about periods: 2021, 2022 and 2023; in the Senate, no. They therefore leave it to the Government to do so or not to do so. What emotion do we have left with? With what do we urge one or the other? It's a little contradictory, isn't it? I, of course, am not clear about your strategy of trying to lower the price of light, because the least it would have been to raise the same measures in one House and another. And this gives me clarity as to their true pretensions, which I do not know if they are really proposing effective measures to lower the light, because part of the foot of these measures is missing and it is how to compensate for the deficit they are going to generate. And I'm saying it, too, because when you were ruling the electric market, it was just like today's. And, then, when there were peaks of light rise, these and other measures were also raised, while a reform of green taxation and a reform of the electricity system, which you did not want to address. Maybe if it had been done, we wouldn't be in this situation today. It seems to me that sometimes you have to call this by name, what is demagoguery and political opportunism. It is true that today we pay more for the light and what they are putting forward here do not cease to be mere patches until a reform of the electricity market is carried out and - as I have said - a real environmental taxation is adopted, eliminating tax collection, and for this, of course, a time limit is needed for its formulation and political consensus. You are also talking about the sandstone that the new tariff has entailed, but neither do you say that the CNMC maintains much of those criteria that were adopted in 2014 and I say that you would know about this because you were in government. We understand that the situation of high prices is creating tension in the citizenry and that temporary measures are necessary that have an immediate effect on the invoice. This can only be achieved today through the tax reduction, which does not stop being a patch, which is paid in the electric invoice - tax on production and VAT reduction -, but it must also be said the truth, because these tax reductions relieve the invoice, but the truth is that the problem is on the taxable basis, which is nothing but the price of electricity on which we apply the rate. Therefore, we will have to attack or control that base. That is why I say that they are timely measures. As I said, you are proposing the reduction of the tax to the value of production to 0%, a tax that the generators pay but that we end up paying by the end consumers, as the generators affect us on the market offers. For this very reason, too, the Government seems to be thinking of implementing this concrete measure, albeit temporarily and not permanently. And it is that, as I said before, what you do not say is that this tax is in turn a collection for the electrical system, a collection that will cover a part of the cost of supply that, if it does not arrive, it will have to be removed from somewhere. Did they say how you're going to pay? Where's it gonna come from? With regard to the extra costs of the electric bill, I have already announced it. Look, we all want to lower the price of light, in this I think we all agree. It will therefore be necessary to speed up this green taxation and the parallel reform of the electricity market; a reform of the electricity market that is in the Climate Change Act through an amendment proposed, in addition, by Esquerra Republicana. So let's do it and let's stop patching, but let's do it now because it's necessary, because if not, it's not going to be reflected in the electric bill of consumers or businesses. We therefore believe that this issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible. In the meantime, the measures you're going to take are fine...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u184	Mrs. Sagastizabal, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u185	... the government to relieve the bill of light, but they are not enough. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u187	Good morning, President. Good morning. I was going down to the plenary to ask myself how you would end up talking about the freedom of political prisoners by relating it to the price of light and you have not disappointed me. For my part, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the political prisoners for the cause of freedom, who today will be able to celebrate the national feast of the Catalan countries with their families and friends, and that they can continue to work freely and democratically in pursuit of their wishes. We share the concern about the unsustainable increase in electricity prices in recent months. The price of light continues to rise in the Spanish State, with serious consequences for thousands of households, SMEs and self-employed workers, who are seeing their electricity bill increase by 45% this past year. Our etiological diagnosis is that the origin of our evils is found in its 1997 Electricity Sector Act. The Aznar Government has sold us that, thanks to liberalisation, we will gain in competitiveness and, as a result, prices will fall. They heard well, announced a market with more operators and reduced prices. However, the result, twenty-four years later, is well known: neither the one nor the other, an electric oligopoly composed of five large companies, which copy and paste the prices, protected by the rotating doors that connect directly to the members of the PP and PSOE governments with the boards of directors of the electricians and also of the gas companies. The result of this pernicious cocktail? An invoice for the light of the highest in the European Union. With regard to the measures proposed to us, we do not object to the measure of reducing VAT to 10%, which is a regressive tax and electricity as a commodity of primary necessity; nothing to object to. Electricity is not a luxury. We align taxation with that of other countries in our environment, although we do not forget that some temporary measure has been proposed and we also do not forget that this will mean a significant reduction in collection for public coffers. If we object to the reduction of charges by transferring tariff deficit and extrapenisular costs to the worn budgets, because it benefits the polluting sources, perverting the intention recently voted in the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act to give price signals towards electrification. A fine interpretation - perhaps malevolent, forgive me - would suggest that its intention is preventive for the purposes of the future national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, which will shift the capitalization of charges to polluting sources and climate change generators. Some kind of compensation you'd be looking for. If we object to removing the tax from Law 15, an instrument rejected by the European authority and on which only transitional modifications would be understood and if we object to banding by changing tolls that have just been fixed. All that would do is dodge the cost of things, oh, champions of liberalism! Avoiding the economic signal, do not be deceived, will not protect the consumer. Think about it. What I would have done would have been to avoid, in the fake liberalisation that you opened, that vertical consolidation in value chain holding, as has been done throughout civilized Europe, would have been maintained and strengthened. If we want to lower the price of energy, we must increase the competition of the sector, avoiding at all costs the concentration of a few business groups, decentralising energy and empowering the consumer. I end up repeating that what's right for us is...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u188	Mr. Capdevila, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u189	Well, I'll tell you the other day. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u190	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u191	Thank you, President. Mr Requena, if we were talking about the Waste Act, I would have no doubt that the concept of recycling and reuse has been perfectly accepted. What happens is that we have to work a little longer, because there is another concept in the Waste Act that is planned obsolescence and its repeated motion has become obsolete, because the Government is moving forward and is taking action. Among other things - and indeed due to the concern of the government partners about the rise in the price of light - it has been decided to deduct VAT and to eliminate the tax on the electricity system which you have, of course, introduced. However, in this debate, so far, I have not heard a word or a reference to the real cause of the rise in energy costs, and it is that, because of the exit from the COVID crisis, overall demand is constantly increasing and gas and hydrocarbon prices are rising. That is at the origin of the rise, in addition to other issues. But, as I say, indeed, from the United Nations We can share the fact that the reduction of taxes is only a partial measure that has to do with avoiding the suffering of those families, especially the most vulnerable, who have difficulty coping with the payment of light. We and we believe that structural measures must be taken, and I wonder whether you would agree with the measures we are proposing, some of which are already being carried out by the Government. Firstly, whether they would agree with a public energy company to break the energy oligopoly. [[Mr. Requena Ruiz makes negative gestures]] I see you're saying no. Secondly, whether they would agree with the sustainability fund of the electricity system to remove from the tariff a part, namely that of the cost of that system, which would reduce the invoice by 16%. Thirdly, if they were in agreement with the elimination of the fallen profits from the sky and with the change in the current price-fixing system, the maximalist system, by which when the gas rises, undoubtedly has a domino effect on the whole price of the invoice. And fourthly, whether they would agree with policies to support renewable energy, especially small renewable energy sources, which are the most directly affecting the price of light. I imagine they don't agree with them because they didn't start them when they were ruling. On the public energy company, you tend to say that this is a Bolivarian measure, when in reality countries such as France, the United States, the Netherlands, Sweden, Australia, Italy, Switzerland or Japan have public energy companies. The presence of the State in the electricity sector is not a rarity, but a widespread trend in the world for decades. In electricity generation, private investors are a minority on a global scale. It is logical, because we are talking about a strategic sector with a significant impact on citizens' daily lives. Note that publicly owned companies account for around 61% of installed electricity capacity, according to the OECD. Only 38% of the electrical power installed or under construction is in completely private hands. In Spain, therefore, we are experiencing an abnormal situation in the global context, in which the whole of the electrical system is in the hands of a business oligopoly. The privatisation of Endesa - now, by the way, in the hands of the Italian public Enel - ended with the State's ability to influence with its own company on issues relating to electricity generation, its distribution or its prices. We believe that it is necessary to correct this situation and, therefore, a public energy company is not a Bolivarian whim, it is a strategic need of our country in order to be able to influence energy policies from outside the oligopoly and to definitely leave behind this policy of rotating doors that has done us so much damage. With regard to the national fund for the sustainability of the electricity system, its objective is to remove the fixed costs, as I said, which are paid on the bill of light of the costs associated with the specific remuneration scheme for renewables. It has also been proposed, by the way - we call for it to be accelerated - a preliminary draft law that will put an end to what is called the fallen benefits of the oligopoly sky. And finally, another measure that we consider urgent is the impulse to solarization of roofs and small solar plants. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Reducing light taxes is an emergency measure, but it cannot be the only one. We need to definitely undertake an urgent reform of the electricity sector, which goes through a public enterprise, the state, in order to influence and withdraw oligopolies...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u192	Mr. López de Uralde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u193	...the privileges they have right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u194	Thank you very much, Mr López de Uralde. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Renau Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about problems with the electricity bill, but what we actually have is an important problem with our electricity sector in general. It is a robust and reliable system - it has proved it many times - but very fragile when it comes to price stability. It is a system that depends too much on external factors, such as, for example, the price of natural gas in international markets. Your lords of the PP know this well, they know these problems well because it was their 2013 Electricity Act, which set up the electricity market as we know it today. However - this is very typical of them - they only remember Santa Barbara when it thunders, and when prices are fired, they flood us with initiatives - Mr Capdevila, if you have something left to say, do not worry because next week or the other, surely, they will bring something or the same so that you can answer them - and when they come down again, they forget because that does not give minutes of television or press headlines. This same initiative was recorded in 2018 and had it in a drawer for three years, until the light returned. We have, however, been working on a new energy model for this country that will allow us to lower the costs for all citizens and give us greater energy independence so as not to be exposed, precisely, to the vagaries of the international gas market or to the costs of CO2. Our proposal is very clear in the long term: more renewable, since it is the most competitive technologies and those that will allow us to lower energy prices. We make a clear commitment to green hydrogen, to self-consumption, to demand management and to storage in order to manage precisely these renewable energies and not depend on more expensive and polluting energies or technologies. It seems incredible to me to hear Mr Oblanca praise coal, for example, or to hear the ladies and gentlemen of VOX come back with the nuclear casket, which precisely this week have declared that they are neither competitive nor profitable with prices below EUR 60 per megawatt. With regard to renewables, the auction in January this year set the price for the coming years at 24 euros per megawatt/hour, less than half of what nuclear costs, according to the words of the industry itself. And the last thing I expected from you is to hear you quote Bertolt Brecht, but, well, green stuff. The measures we are proposing are perfectly aligned with this country's commitments to decarbonisation, embodied in the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, because we must not forget that we are immersed in an energy transition that must be fair, that must share the transition costs equitably among society as a whole. And on that line we are working with proposals such as the creation of the national sustainability fund for the electricity system; a fund that will serve to download from the electricity bill the regulated costs that correspond to the renewables premiums and that will entail a real and permanent reduction of 15% in the final bill of all consumers. Or a much needed reform of energy taxation, pushing towards sustainable green taxation, which sends out the right signals. But these reforms take time, because it is a complex, delicate system, which must be addressed as a whole so as not to cause imbalances, such as those provoked by your motion, ladies and gentlemen. And until they can be fully implemented, the Government has decided to put in place temporary, urgent, determined measures, such as, for example, the reduction of VAT, which will be a very important saving for all Spanish households. The People's Party, however, brings us, as Mr Requena himself has said, for the sixth time his own sterile proposal. I don't know if it's because you think this time you'll be the one who won because someone was wrong to vote - they've already told you no ke - or simply because they have no alternatives and they don't know, they have no idea how to solve this problem. [[Laughter]] I'm glad it's funny. Do you know what the most serious thing is, Mr. Marshal? That when they have to vote for serious measures that can really put a stop to electricity prices, such as the national sustainability fund, they will not support it. That's how it works! They already did it with the Climate Change Act. They always do! For the People's Party politics is not going to help people, it is going to help you yourselves. [[Applauds]] Look, his short course is pathological. They measure the success of their campaigns - non-political - in number of retuits and in headlines. You don't move, you run in circles. You think the worse, the better. They are still those of: let Spain fall, that we will already raise it. And, please, that you use the word looting in your speech to me puts my hair at the top and you should be ashamed of it. It doesn't matter if they're on Genoa Street or if they go to another street, because they're still the same and they don't cheat on anyone! [[applause]] You can keep running on your hamster wheel so you don't have to get anywhere that we, quiet, will keep working. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Renau. Mr Requena, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u197	The vote will take place on their terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u198	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries. [[File number 173/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u199	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group on the measures that the Government is going to take to protect Spain's sovereignty from other countries. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. Last week, when I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the measures the Government was going to take to protect our sovereignty, she did so with some concern. In a very short time the Government of Pedro Sánchez had managed to undermine Spain's position in each and every territorial conflict affecting our country. I have to admit that today, a week later and after listening to the minister's answer, my concern is even greater. Spain is witnessing the greatest devaluation of its geostrategic position in the Strait in more than three hundred years, is suffering the largest migratory invasion since the Green March and is enduring the worst deterioration in our international weight in many years. And in the face of this situation, how did the minister respond to me? With an exercise of diverting attention to things that have nothing to do with the issues raised and talking to me about gender-based violence. He said: I will not stop working to fight this scourge, which is gender-based violence within and outside our borders. And that is very good, but it has nothing to do with the subject of our inquiry or, in fact, with the work of a Foreign Minister, unless, of course, he was referring to his concern about the forceful statistics of murders of women murdered by their partners in Spain, because, although they account for only 10% of the population, 40% of women's murderers are foreigners, according to data provided by the Government Delegation against Gender Violence, or the fact that in that country half of women suffer gender-based violence, according to the Ministry of Solidarity, Family and Social Development of Morocco. Ladies and gentlemen, if a feminist policy is to be pursued, defending our women begins by defending our way of life and our borders, and the opposite is true frivolity. [[Applauds]] But frivolity is precisely the characteristic that best defines the foreign policy of this Government in the defence of our sovereignty. In Gibraltar, Spain was faced with a historic opportunity to negotiate with the United Kingdom the end of a situation contrary to international law and tremendously damaging to our interests. The minister began by meeting bilaterally with the mayor of Peñón, recognizing an interlocution that Spain, in three hundred years, had never accepted and ended, as was foreseeable, by renouncing our sovereignty and consolidating Gibraltar's position as a fiscal paradise and epicenter of international crime. Its ecological foreign policy has allowed the United Kingdom to convert the territorial waters of Peñón - waters which the Treaty of Utrecht does not grant it - into the Mediterranean capital of bunkering, you know, that practice of refueling fuel on the high seas from boat to boat. The same year the transfer of fuel between larger ships in Europe has been carried out in Spanish waters to date. And the British Navy has been using Gibraltar's military base as a workshop and shelter for nuclear submarines, which constitutes a serious threat to Spain's national security. We have to get back to the initiative. That is why, in this motion, which we hope to support ladies and gentlemen of all groups, we urge the Government to start bilateral negotiations with the United Kingdom, taking all the diplomatic actions necessary to recover the Spanish sovereignty of the Gibraltar Peninsula, to promote respect for Spanish waters delimited as special conservation areas in the Bay of Algeciras and to carry out all the diplomatic actions necessary, in order to promote that the United Kingdom ceases to use the Gibraltar naval base as a workshop or shelter for nuclear submarines. But, ladies and gentlemen, threats to our territorial integrity do not end there. Ten days ago, the Moroccan House of Representatives pointed out Ceuta and Melilla as occupied Moroccan cities, in what represents a new blow to our sovereignty. In March 2020, Morocco published two laws in which it illegally appropriated Spanish jurisdictional waters with important strategic and economic value. The Government's response: tranquillity. In December, the United States recognized Morocco's sovereignty over Western Sahara, a territory of which Spain had been an administering power since 1965 and on which we had been defending a state position, in support of international legality and UN Security Council Resolution 6/90. The Government's response: total non-relevance. After seven months since Joe Biden's election victory, the US President's 29-second walk with Mr Sánchez confirmed only one thing: that we have a president who can hardly defend our interests, because they simply ignore him. To increase its negotiating capacity, Morocco has not hesitated to use human lives, sending us in December to more than 20,000 people in pateras and cayucos on the coasts of the Canary Islands, where the Government of Spain did nothing to prevent it. He did nothing to prevent them from arriving, did nothing to return them and, in addition, financed their stay to the extreme of housing illegal immigrants in hotels, in some cases, of a certain luxury. And Morocco did it again: this May, a tumult of Moroccans broke into Ceuta illegally and suddenly, encouraged directly by Morocco, which opened the borders and did not hesitate to use minors in what constitutes a genuine migration invasion. The first gesture of this government is known: appeasement. It granted aid of EUR 30 million to Morocco. But the next one, not so much: in the midst of the biggest immigration invasion in Spain since the Green March, the General Secretariat of Migration approved on June 8 an instruction that greatly facilitated the regulation of illegal immigrants via rooting; a real effect called at the worst time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our commitment to Europe in the Immigration and Asylum Pact in 2008 and it is our commitment to Spain and the Spanish: not to illegal immigration. Spain has to carry out all the necessary actions to expel individuals who enter and remain illegally in our country. Defending their borders by strengthening border controls in order to prevent the infiltration into national territory of terrorists camouflaged as displaced migrants or refugees is fair to the Spaniards and legal immigrants who were on the right path. [[Applauds]] It is absolutely essential to put an end to the situation of chronic dependence on other States that make us so vulnerable to third-party blackmail and to shield our territories, in particular Ceuta and Melilla, by promoting that the NATO Treaty explicitly collects and includes these cities under their protection, which it does not do at present. Ladies and gentlemen, the life and freedom of many Spaniards depends on us being able to defend our borders and our territorial integrity. I regret that the feminist and environmental diplomacy of this Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not enough for that.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u201	Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, you have to finish please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u202	Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u203	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In order to defend the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Martínez Granados is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the VOX Group is bringing forward a motion proposing ten points to strengthen Spanish foreign policy. These proposals are either unreal or nightly, in line with the assumptions of the VOX Parliamentary Group in foreign policy. These proposals range from recovering Spanish sovereignty in Gibraltar exclusively to undoing European cooperation in the field of migration or declaring migration a national security crisis. Finally, mention is also made of increasing our spending on defence and promoting the bases of Rota and Morón to the United States; the only contemplated measures that are taken with a feasible character of promoting the interests of Spain, and we really do not believe that this solves foreign policy. In short, these proposals are not a plan to relaunch Spain's foreign policy, but only the ex-abrupts of the VOX Parliamentary Group away from the reality of real foreign policy, not only Spanish, but European and global. In the Citizens' Parliamentary Group we have always made it clear that for the last fifteen years Spain has not had its rightful position in the European Union or in the world. This is the result of a lack of foreign political ambition that the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party have maintained in recent years. If we are an example country in the world for our transition to democracy and our conversion into one of the most dynamic countries in Europe in just two decades, we are now practically without foreign policy. This government must choose between a black and white road full of dandruff or a path of illusion that shows the world what Spain is, the reality of solidarity, brave, inclusive, modern, liberal. We have nothing more to see than the last example, although we can put many, in which Morocco has vetoed the ports of Spain in Operation Step of the Strait. And what did the ministry say about that? He did not care that the Gibraltar Field depended on that Operation Pass of the Strait, the world's largest known, nor that Andalusia would be affected by that. He doesn't care, if he doesn't have foreign policy, he has nothing to say. For example, thanks to Citizens, the European Parliament discussed the events in Ceuta and Melilla on 17 May a few days ago, the first time that the situation in the autonomous cities had reached Brussels in 25 years. Thanks to the citizens, the institutions of the European Union expressed their solidarity with Spain, with the ceutians, with the Melillenses and their rejection of the political use of children and families by Morocco. Faced with immobilism and the inability to present alternatives of the old parties and VOX, Citizens are able to mobilize all possible resources to defend the general interest of Spain. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this motion which aims to improve the proposals of the proposing group with a liberal foreign policy plan for a modern Spain that looks to the future; a plan which contains numerous initiatives that we have already tabled as amendments to the motion resulting from the inquiry brought by the People's Party last week. Our orange plan, in the first place, seeks an update of our strategic priorities, that is, of the heart of Spain that wants to move and defend in the world. For citizens, the three main priorities must be the defence of rights and freedoms and the rule of law, the defence of open societies where no individual is discriminated against or ill-treated for his or her origin, race, sex, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity or ideology, and the defence of open economies, where free trade is based on these rules and is key to sustainable growth. We also believe that Spain must take advantage of its strengths to foster changes in the world that in turn benefit our citizens and businesses. Spain is a country with a global vocation and that is why we must strengthen our presence in the most important geographical areas for international relations. Finally, Spanish foreign policy would be nothing without its professionals. Both the People's Party and VOX forget diplomats and other foreign service professionals in their motions. We do include them in our amendment, because they are key people in our foreign policy. In short, it is a plan that we believe Spain needs to regain its prestige abroad and to be able to better defend the general interest of Spanish people in the world. If you do not accept our amendment, we will not be able to support your initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u205	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr García Díez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have been saying for a long time, our foreign policy is going through one of the worst moments in its history. We have also been saying that foreign policy is a clear reflection of what is cooked at home, and on the latter the Government has already clearly shown that the only project it has for the Spaniards is its permanence in power at any price. The photos offered to us by this Government are those of ignominy, embrace and forgiveness to which, without showing any repentance, one day and another insist that pardons are the prelude to the defeat of Spain and that they demonstrate the weakness of the State. And I tell you that you are wrong, because the weakness is of the government; the state still has a lot of resources to put an end to the rupturist plans. With this internal policy the projection abroad is that of an unreliable partner, a partner who only seeks to improve his image begging pictures to the race through the corridors. Sánchez's ridiculous pose has made it clear that Sanchez is in his international policy what he is in his national, pure cosmetic policy. Our relationship with the United States is far more serious than theatre. We cannot forget that in Spain it governs a coalition of sanchoists with communists, who are more interested in maintaining good relations with the Maduro regime than in strengthening alliances with our historical partners. Jon Juaristi wrote: 'There is a limit that the United States does not tolerate skipping governments that say their friends, and that is that they include in their declared enemy ranks of the United States or public friends of their declared worst enemies.' But if the Government makes these mistakes with the United States of America, it is no less worrying how the Government acts with Morocco. From the erratic beginning of the legislature, obviating the tradition of making an official first trip to this country, to the entry into our country of the Secretary General of the Frente Polisario a few days ago under false identity, everything has been out of step in foreign policy. Our parliamentary group has just registered an initiative with a number of measures aimed at alleviating the Government's inaction in the face of this crisis with Morocco. And what about the serious mistakes of Spanish diplomacy in relation to Brexit and Gibraltar, where the absolute lack of vision of the Government, which could have led to an ambitious agreement on the fundamental issue, which is sovereignty, did not do so and entailed the loss of a historic opportunity. The motion presented to us by VOX is a mixture of ten very heterogeneous issues. We are drawn to the attention that you, who were the greatest advocates of Trump's policies, whose position on the Sahara issue has been the most damaging to Spain's position on this territory, are now putting it here in a contrary way. But it has also drawn our attention to its approach to amending Article 6 of the NATO Treaty, which is extremely complex and leads us to believe that it can be an occurrence. That is why we have tabled the amendment you already know. What I want to tell you is that only through the interviews given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs do we know what Spain's real foreign policy is. In the last of his interviews he said: 'We are willing to consider any solution Morocco puts on the table'. It reminds me of that famous Zapatero phrase that said, 'I will accept any proposal that comes from the Parliament of Catalonia'. [[Applauds]] Or, finally, when he said: 'In the European Union, pardons look good', confusing the Council of Europe with the European Union; that is why they have certainly been so pleased that the Council of Europe questions the democratic quality of our Supreme Court, equipping us with Turkey, only to add new alibis to its strategies of pardons. In short, and I am finalizing, Spanish foreign policy is in these hands, while the ambassadors in many countries such as India and the United Kingdom, which are important countries in our relations, remain unnamed. The leader of the socialists in Catalonia said a few days ago in reference to the letter of Junqueras, that leader relevant to Sánchez, that that was the most important day of the legislature. I say to you today that we are in the darkest days of this parliamentary term for our democracy and in the preamble to many more difficult days for our rule of law. That is why, finalizing my speech, I want to tell all the Spaniards who are concerned today about the gravity of this situation that my party here is, that here my parliamentary group is to stop with all our work its attempt to destroy the foundations of our coexistence. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor at the position-setting session, by Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. The VOX Parliamentary Group raises a motion following its appeal to the Government on the measures that it is going to take to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries, and the first thing I want to do is to underline the doubts raised by the Government that President Pedro Sánchez has been able to defend our sovereignty abroad, when the Council of Ministers, to the detriment of internal sovereignty, twenty-four hours ago, has just given itself, indecently, to the first demands of the independenceists who in Catalonia try to break territorial integrity and continue to spread throughout the world international campaigns that denigrate the democratic quality of our country, question the impartiality of justice, call us back and, among other things, accuse us of stealing them. In this regard, he called for the attention of both the Government and the deputies and senators - who represent in the General Courts the sovereignty of the nation - to the new anti-Spanish thread that the separatists have found in some representatives with a seat in the Council of Europe, who are promoting unacceptable resolutions, declarations and agreements against Spain and in grave violation of our sovereignty. On the other hand, the recent spectacle of the President of the Government himself joining the President of the United States, Mr Joe Biden, in order to obtain a photographic pose in the hallways during the NATO summit in Brussels, is the reflection of a ridicule that puts the prestige of Spain on the ground and sows a reasonable uncertainty about the government's ability to defend and protect the good name of our country. As a Spanish woman, it hurts me and I am concerned about the drift of the foreign policy that has Mrs González Laya as the head of the ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative which Mr Espinosa de los Monteros has defended is very broad, very well presented and worked out and in its operative part deepens, among other things, the situation resulting from the different and very profound changes in international policy which, in fact, have been left without the proper response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with irresponsible actions and declarations which are tying up our diplomacy and generating a growing concern which is perceived, above all, in those communities, localities and areas which are the subject of controversy, such as our two autonomous cities, the international waters close to the Canary Islands, the Strait and those which form part of the special zones of delimitation of the Bay of Algeciras. Likewise, the change in Gibraltar's colonial status after the Brexit has revealed, for our misfortune, the relevant role of the Government, with the waste of a historic opportunity to advance in the recovery of our sovereignty over the Peñón. As set out in this parliamentary initiative, it is desirable that Community legislation on the borders of Europe be reviewed in order to articulate greater and better defence mechanisms in the face of invasions and avalanches of migration, which does not exclude that Spain urgently needs to make a greater effort for border surveillance and control, increasing human and material endowments. Our community role should not only focus on the funds of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in Europe the government has to cultivate empathy so that the whole of the Union is fully aware of the constant and tearing increase in the migratory pressure in which, on the other hand, it has a lot of responsibility the effect called with which Pedro Sánchez debuted as president three years ago, after the censorship, opening in pairs the Spanish ports to the arrival of ships like the Aquarius, which involved an invitation of open doors to the business of the mafias of the criminal trafficking of human beings. Ladies and gentlemen, while there are many points raised in this motion, I would like to point out that the declaration of interest for national sovereignty is relevant when there are migratory avalanches such as those recently suffered by the Autonomous City of Ceuta, in whose streets a distressing situation persists for our compatriots. Finally, as I have shown in the Defence Commission, I support the fact that one of our two major air bases in Andalusia - Morón de la Frontera's or the defeat - can choose, if necessary, to be the headquarters of Africom. In short, I will vote in favour of this motion tabled by the VOX Group, Madam President. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u210	Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, are you going to promote that the Kingdom of Spain ceases to be a member State of the Council of Europe? I say this because on Monday, before six o'clock in the afternoon, a Member of yours, in a video, said that a serious reflection of Spain's presence in international organisations that did not serve its interests would be necessary. The report, adopted on Monday by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with 70 votes in favour, 28 against and 12 abstentions, is that reason enough to stop being a member of the Council of Europe? In the video his MEP considered that yes, since such decisions - this report - can, in his view, constitute an attack on Spain's sovereignty. An attack which, I would remind you, would be given by an international organization of 47 Member States, including Switzerland, for example, which since 1949 has been the greatest guarantor of respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy on the European continent. The MEP clearly distinguished the Council of Europe from the European Union, which I thank because it is something I always insist on for my students. The Council of Europe is different from the European Council and the Council of the Union. You mustn't be confused. One is the ultimate guarantor in respect for human rights and democratic values: the Council of Europe. In this report, which told them, together with Turkey, what is pointed out in relation to Catalonia and Spain, in particular, is that political prisoners should not be required to refuse their convictions for having a more favourable prison regime; that those who sympathize with prisoners and exiles should not be punished; that the crime of embezzlement should be properly applied; that all those involved in the referendum on 1 October should be withdrawn; that extradition proceedings should be abandoned; that prisoners related to 1 October and peaceful demonstrations should be pardoned or released; that interpretations that would lead to decriminalization such as the organization of a referendum, which since 2005 is not illegal in Spanish law, should be avoided. In Junts per Catalunya we believe that this report does contribute to what you describe as a deterioration in the international image of Spain. The motion you are presenting is a set of various ideas put together and in which the explanatory statement clearly does not coincide with the final petitum. For example, with regard to the delimitation of territorial waters and the exclusive economic zone, they mention this in their presentation, but ask nothing about it. I don't know if they put it in the exhibition to fill out pages. We refer to what we told them in February 2020. As for Gibraltar, you say it is humiliating for a minister to meet with the mayor of Penion. Meeting anyone, from our point of view, is not a humiliation, it is politics. And, in addition, you urge to regain Spanish sovereignty over the Peñón. But where is the will of the Gibraltarians? The Gibraltarians, in a referendum in 2002, said that they do not even want a shared sovereignty between the Kingdom of Spain and the United Kingdom, which they want to remain British. Let the citizens decide, let the people decide. It is also true that, in connection with that referendum, the foreign minister of the moment, Ana Palacio, said that it was illegal. Well, we continue with the same speech. Let's go to the migration issue, which is his obsession. In relation to it, why do you not go to the root of the problem, why do these people leave their countries, why do you emigrate in these terrible circumstances? You consider that the issues of Morocco, migration, the delimitation of territorial waters and Gibraltar have led to a deterioration of the international weight of Spain and that Spain is in grave danger given its fragile international situation. We ask whether this deterioration or fragile situation is due to the report of the United States Department of State on human rights, which speaks of Catalan political prisoners; or to the reports of the arbitrary detention group of the United Nations; or to the existence of a Court of Auditors and its extreme politicization, which has also transcended internationally; or to the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights a few days ago, which once again condemns Spain for violation of freedom of expression; or to the report of the Council of Europe. In Junts per Catalunya we believe that it is more because of all this that their Kingdom has deteriorated, and we do not believe that with the release from prison of the new imprisoned politicians the international image of Spain will improve much, because they come out with partial, conditional and verifiable pardons...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u211	Mrs. Illamola, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u212	And in Catalonia there are still exiles and more than three thousand reprisals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u214	Thank you, President. With the French Revolution, sovereignty, especially popular sovereignty, was becoming a noble way to claim the self-government of free men and women who aspire to be treated not as subjects, but as free and equal persons. But, as you can see here, in the mouth of the far right of this House, sovereignty is much like that used in the Old Regime prior to the Revolution; that is, a worn-out scam that attempts to place as patriotic aspirations what are brazen privileges and whims of very few. It is true that the trick can be stunned because it is spewed with flags, clubs and martial breast strokes, but the sovereignty posed by VOZ is too much like the old hypocritical sovereignty of Francoism, hard with the weak and submissive with the great powers of the state and the market. Where was VOX's sovereignism when Trump raised tariffs to Spanish agricultural producers? Disappeared, because what I was playing was submission. Where was VOX's sovereignism when the vulture funds of Blackrock and Cerberus crossed borders to buy entire neighborhoods of Madrid? Nowhere. Or, rather, sending the deputy Spinosa to the City of London - as they did in 2019 - to calm down those investment funds and to explain to them that their diatribes against globalism were actually a small joke. How hard, ladies and gentlemen, what kings you are when you shoot at migrant people arriving in the Canary Islands and Ceuta! How meek, on the other hand, they are with the Moroccan monarchy, leaving the Saharan people abandoned and no matter what the sovereignty of Spain! Who really offends VOX's sovereignty here? [[Applauds]] Well, apparently the Council of Europe offends it, because it does not legalize the revenge and criminal law of the enemy; it is offended by the journalists of Huelva, for planting in front of the sovereign claim to exploit them without any limit, and it also offends people like Serigne Mbayé, born in Senegal and today a deputy in Madrid thanks to popular sovereignty, and it simply offends her for having entered as she could, fleeing from hunger as millions of Spaniards did in Germany, France or America. But what's funny, ladies and gentlemen, is that the attacker is Rocío Monasterio, who was born in Cuba, who emigrated with his family during the Francoism, jumping waiting lists, who dedicated himself to asserting plans without being an architect and who sold thirteen floors without a habitability card. [[Applauds]] One wonders: does this woman who violates legality not endanger sovereignty? Are you going to ask VOX to come back to your country for scamming architects, citizens, Spaniards who do totally? Deputy Abascal - who did not even do the military service - passed the pandemic - like Franco in his time - begging Trump to please install more military bases in Spain while supporting classist and criminal policies throughout Latin America. When the infamous coup d'état occurred in Bolivia, there was VOX, giving it cover, in close connection with the Francisco Franco Foundation. When Bolsonaro laughed at the death of millions of Brazilians because of his denialist and genocidal policy of the pandemic, there was VOX laughing at him and proposing as a great alternative that the World Health Organization be suppressed. When hundreds of women, young people, workers were killed, disappeared in Colombia or Chile, there was VOX, along with the heirs of Álvaro Uribe and Pinochet. And now that a modest rural teacher like Pedro Castillo has won the elections in Peru against all factual powers, there is VOX leading Trump campaigns to try to steal the Peruvian people's right to freely choose their destiny. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you would like to be in foreign policy the new party of the commanders, to exercise farmers not only in Spain but beyond your borders, but - I will tell you with all serenity - you will not get it because there are going to be millions of women and men who are going to prevent it. Women and men who also in the conception of foreign policy are heirs of the Andalusian Bartolomé de las Casas and the Catalan Pere Casaldàliga, who are heirs of Bartolina Sisa, Marielle Franco, Berta Cáceres, heirs of Simón Bolivar - so admired by Unamuno - and Salvador Allende. Also, of Spanish patriots such as the liberal José María Torrijos, murdered for opposing the colonialist felonies of Fernando VII and whose name was removed by the Francoism of this Chamber because he had a plaque here. We, like them, believe that the only sovereignty that deserves respect is popular sovereignty, anchored in respect for human rights and in the idea that one people who oppresses another can never be a free people. And let us not deceive ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, with you we would never be a free and sovereign people; we would be subject to the hands of young men who, in order to preserve their business, would be willing to subdue any country to the highest bidder. And that, we're simply not going to consent to. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u215	Thank you very much, Mr Pisarello. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mr Marí Klose has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u216	Thank you, President. Antonio Machado said that in Spain of every ten heads one thinks and nine invades. I think I was exaggerating, that there weren't so many, but I'm really convinced, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that you guys are the heads that get in the way. Perhaps this is why in his demonstrations in Columbus, just as he did in the United States in the assault on the Capitol perpetrated by his ideological relatives, there appear straphalary characters with the head of bull or bison. Its foreign policy prescriptions consist in proclaiming with martial pride that our country does not admit offenses, showing a lustrous horn, beating each other in the chest and infesting. What's the problem? That many of the animals that invade end up with very damaged horns. We're always going to be found in the antipodes. Social democrats don't get in the way. We have historically built a project of Europe together with others, along with Christian and liberal democrats - what you normally call a cowardly right - to prevent European countries from coming into conflict with each other and regularly devastating Europe. Sometimes we are accused of pusillanimous. Our leaders do not ride, display muscular physiognomy, or pose with their heads raised and their breasts bent, but the societies we lead, advance, modernize, present great balances of economic performance and social cohesion and live in peace. Relations with our neighbours are generally good and, when they are not, they are constructively worked out so that they can become so; and they are usually achieved, because two do not get bogged down if one does not want to. Defending our sovereignty is of course providing good security against threats, investing progressively in defence as we do until we reach 2% of GDP and as we have committed ourselves to doing in the framework of NATO. Spain maintains strategic alliances with countries in its environment that allow it to defend its territorial integrity and national interests, effectively defend itself against internal threats and control its borders. Because I remind you that the borders of Spain are the borders of the European Union and are the borders of a NATO country. That's why we're not going to need your bravadoes, nor are we going to need your lessons to intimidate anyone. Neighbors must strive to get along if they are willing to get along and try to behave when they don't want to. Generally, there is much to gain from a bilateral relationship of cooperation and respect embedded in a framework of robust multilateral relations. With regard to Morocco, this has been the orientation of the sensible policy of this Government and I would dare say - and I am not hurt by clothes - also of the previous governments of the People's Party. There is nothing to gain in an escalation of confrontation and display of muscle with a country with which we know that it will be better for us if we cultivate a cooperative relationship. If we can't weave this relationship, it brings us oars, we won't get bogged down. That doesn't mean standing idly by in the face of provocations. It means measuring reactions; it means working discreetly and tirelessly to try to channel conflicts and prevent them from overflowing; working multilaterally to ensure that international legality prevails; working to ensure that agreements are respected; and dialogue on differences. This means strengthening an image of credibility and respect among our allies; an image that helps the European Parliament condemn Morocco's behaviour or choose to host the next NATO summit in Spain; an image that helps to validate with honour the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan; an image that wishes growth and investment attraction in the coming years; an image that will attract millions of tourists this summer to Spain and will promote economic recovery. In short, an image that also strengthens the granting of pardons, as witnessed today by the main headlines of the international press. A positive image is the result of a lot of strategic reflection and work.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u217	Mr. Marí, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u218	Our country will not follow the path of those who invade. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Marí. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u220	The vote will take place on their terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-23-CD210623.u221	Thank you very much. Very good afternoon, everyone. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. The meeting was suspended at two and ten minutes in the afternoon.
