ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u1	[[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an insult to the spirit of the Constitution the anti-democratic strategy of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, which reduces the Senate to scorn by denying any hint of participation in the drafting of the most important law that is discussed annually in the General Courts. Like a year ago, the Executive tried to disable one of the two legislative chambers representing the Spanish people, and it was therefore welcomed that the adoption of a budget amendment had put this new disempowerment of the social-communist factory on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the provisions on the defence of linguistic rights, I will vote in favour of the changes reflected after the amendment on the promotion and dissemination of languages protected by the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, including several which are native to Asturias. Throughout the history of the Forum we have committed ourselves to the regulatory development of the Law on the Use and Promotion of the Bable/Asturian, an autonomous law on the way to fulfill a quarter of a century without much success. However, now that the Socialist Government of the Principality is trying to irresponsibly intertwine with the co-officiality of language, it is appropriate to point out that in the section devoted to linguistic heritage of the Forum's electoral programme, the following is literally stated: 'There is currently no social consensus necessary to advise the reform of our status of autonomy to include in its article 4 the official status, as set out in article 3.2 of the Spanish Constitution'. Intercommissioned, please, shorthand editor, to avoid misunderstandings peculiar to some Diañu Burlón and manipulations of the current Forum program to which we are obliged to whom we are his elected representatives in the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u3	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. How true it is that time puts each one on his or her site, and today will definitely approve budgets on the day that symbolically best represents what these budgets are, the Day of the Innocent. Because these budgets are nothing more than an innocent Spain, these budgets are not made for the Spaniards to live better, but for the government to survive longer entrenched in the Moncloa with the support of the independenceists, who do serve these budgets. [[Applauds]] Because, in what will these budgets, ladies and gentlemen of the government, help all those Spaniards who are suffering because the light this year has multiplied by 7, because the gas has been fired, because the fuel already costs 1.5 euros per litre? To all those Spaniards who are going to make the purchase at the supermarket and can't take essential items because all that food is being fired, what are these budgets going to do for them? What are these budgets going to do for all those Spaniards who are still not paying the ERTE since November and are supposed to pay them now, after Reyes, or for all those in the automotive sector, who have been carrying it without paying it since June, and many shipowners know that very well? What are they going to do? Not at all, because what this government is doing with these accounts is the great innocentness to those Spaniards, to whom it told that this year they were going to pay the same for the light as in 2018; obviously, an innocent. And this government, which is that of the cream strike, the toys, the chop, of course in the light, has not raised any strikes. Imagine that instead of being in the government you were others, it would not be necessary to put the light, because the street would be burning and with that heat it would be enough to warm us up. The Spaniards certainly do not serve, but who do these accounts serve? These accounts serve those who make Catalan a business for pocketing money; yes, they do, because you are going to create a public instrument to finance the doubling of Catalan and so you are happy with your Esquerra partners and also the platforms, which do not complain because they are not going to pay them, we are going to pay them all Spanish. Who else are very happy? Its partners in Bildu; let those have made a great innocent to Spain. Remember when they came to say what budget for prisoners, but they were no longer going to pay tribute to ages. Well, man, last weekend all you had to do was walk down the streets of Pamplona! But, in case that seems to you little, the former head of ETA is going to join the leadership of Sortu, who, if I am not mistaken, Sortu is Bildu; and, moreover, there is a march in favor of Parot for the 31st, nothing more and nothing less. Well, it's a little innocent that they weren't going to pay any more tributes! As I say, these budgets are not for the Spaniards to live better; these budgets to the only ones that come to them well are, precisely, the enemies of Spain. That is why our vote cannot be other than a non-rotating vote on these accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u5	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u6	Egun on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are here today to approve and introduce EUR 1 600 000 more into the budgets of 2022, to protect and promote our own languages, and we will do so thanks to the support of the People's Party for the amendment that comes from the Senate. That does sound innocent, Mr Sayas, and yet, no, it is not innocent, it is going to be so, as I say. So today someone might think that the People's Party, caught in sudden inspiration, has set aside its strategy of attacking the Basque, Catalan or Galician and has realized that being able to learn, know and use more than one language is a social and cultural wealth that must be preserved and protected. They may have realized that Basque, Catalan, Galician, Asturian or Aragonese citizenship has the right not only to learn, but also to live in our own languages. It could be that the PP has realized that their own languages do not remain, but add up, that they are not a weapon of confrontation, but of respect, and that the protection of our languages does not go against anyone, but in favour of our societies. It could be all this, but we suspect not; we suspect that in all this more than seriousness and politics what is at stake is a game of bad guys and bad guys. In any case, we would like to thank them; we thank them for having given us EUR 1 600 000 which the Government did not want to include to boost our languages. Moreover, they have also obtained funds to boost the Asturian and Aragonese, something that was not contemplated until now and which is a great news and a great advance for Asturians and Aragonese. Therefore, have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we will invest well those funds that you have managed to get the euskera to more and more people. [[pronounces words in euskera]] I used to say that all this was a game of malandrines and from their ranks they have explained it in a very clear language. They have done so to put a goal on the government, as the statesman of Sotosalbos said the People's Party has in the Senate. So look, it has been such a gluttony, that they have managed to delay the approval of the budgets one week with, exactly, the same support and with 1 600 000 euros more for Basque, Catalan, Galician, Asturian and Aragonese. In addition, even in an unexpected row of the ball on the pole, perhaps you yourselves vote in favour of the languages of each territory, something that a few weeks ago was very difficult to even imagine. You have to admit, you are a good scorer, very good. This must be height policy and strategic capacity. I congratulate you again. Obviously, we have decided to irony with the unlikely and absurd situation that is taking place here today to highlight the little respect you have for the citizenship we represent and our linguistic rights, because neither the constant attack on our languages is any joke nor what it means to celebrate this plenary today and this day is no joke either. Today, in the midst of another wave of contagion, we are here deputies and deputies from all points of the state and, more importantly, there are tens, perhaps hundreds, of people from the services of Congress: stenographers, journalists, lawyers, ushers, all of them at risk because you have decided to mount your last political issue of the year. We could have voted on this single amendment to the budgets last Thursday during the plenary session, as proposed, but no, PP and VOX wanted to fill the media with their sophistications until the last week of the year and refused. They wanted to score a goal. Well, they close the year with their best portrait, ladies and gentlemen. With this action that has resulted in this plenary you are the faithful reflection of the political and cultural inability to understand the value and respect that is owed to your own languages and are also, in some way, the reflection of irresponsibility in the midst of a pandemic. I'm finishing up, ladies and gentlemen. Today this government will have budgets and will have them thanks to the progressive and plurinational majority that exists in this Congress. It should not be forgotten, especially when it comes to addressing the challenges ahead, starting with labour reform. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this reform is not historic, but it can be. This reform may involve the real recovery of labour rights stolen by the right. This reform can put an end to the cut in rights of so many years. It's just a matter of political will. We therefore hope that in the parliamentary process the Government will have a constructive attitude and join forces in improving this labour reform, in order to introduce the measures that have been left out of it. We need to dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, in order to fulfil the word given and improve this reform for the sake of the workers, it seems good or'bad to the employer because, ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of something: the employer, the CEO, has never defended workers' rights and will never do so. Now think of who your government owes and who they want to govern for. They have the social, trade union and political majority to recover labour rights stolen in 2012. We are willing to try and we hope that you will, too. Happy year to everyone and everyone. In Galician, happy new year. In Catalan, good holidays and good years. And today with 1 600 000 more reasons, in Asturian bon añu nuevu and in Aragonese, happy new year. On-the-she-she-she-she-she-she-she-it. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u7	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u8	Good morning to everyone. I think it is always a good thing that we have budgets to deal with the year, because those issues that some of us who have preceded me in the use of the word pointed out as: 'Well, this is not going to be solved by the budgets', because, of course, it will be much easier to solve it with them, with adapted budgets, prepared for the coming year without these being in force. It is true that this year's budgets were a little special because the large items that form part of the Resilience Fund were not possible to be amended and, therefore, the participation of this Parliament, of the Courts, has been rather in the half of the budget or somewhat less than half of the budget, to say the least. But I believe that, as far as my group is concerned, we can be satisfied with the negotiation that has taken place. They know that our reference - obviously, like that of all political parties, I understand - is our program and what we call the Basque agenda. Both the budgetary and extrabudgetary arrangements have been satisfactory: R & D+i, hydraulic works, railway infrastructure, promotion of culture, etc. Dialogue and consensus is part of the budget and there have been more than fifty amendments. I, apart from those fifty amendments, would like to underline the agreement on minimum vital income and high-speed train. We therefore voted with conviction throughout the procedure by making budgets easier, and we will now also vote in favour of this amendment from the Senate, but I have to confess that this session aroused my curiosity. Double confession: I have a bet with Mr. Bel. I think I'll probably have lost it if I have to believe what's coming in some medium of communication, specifically today's vanguard. I will explain the bet to you because this amendment that comes from the Senate was voted for by us. I was surprised by Bildu's fierce defense of it, because he voted against it in the Senate; and the People's Party, surprisingly, voted yes. The world upside down! For I had bet with Mr. Bel - and let's see what's going on - and I confess to you, that you were going to vote today that no, he said yes, and it looks like he's going to win. I don't mind missing that food, but I confess that I didn't think so, because once the photo that the government had prepared in the Senate the other day was broken, you were perfectly able to vote against that same amendment. Now, if you are going to vote yes, I will gladly pay the food to Mr Bel - I don't care - but also that affirmative vote reaches my heart a lot, because I suppose they do it not out of shame or because they are going to remove the colors or because they tell them that there is inconsistency, but they do so out of conviction, and then this opens up a whole avenue of possibilities for meeting our parliamentary groups in the audiovisual law. [[laughs]] There I want to see them and there I am convinced that we have paths to go together. We will be consistent and vote - or have already done so telematically - on the amendment that was approved by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u9	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u10	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by sending all the support of my parliamentary group to Carlos García Adanero. [[Applauds]] I hope your son recovers and that the bugs that attacked your son will pay him well. We are here today because it returns an amendment from the Senate of the General Budgets of the State because the PP has joined the nationalists so that they have more money for the promotion of languages. This was voted by the PP with Esquerra, with the PNV, with Junts and even Bildu thanked them - what a great day!-. Have you heard about what happened to a child at Canet de Mar does nothing with the promotion of the languages that nationalists do every time they send them money? Have you noticed that this strategy does not lead you anywhere? Have you noticed what you are doing by voting for an amendment of these characteristics? Or is it that you are already changing your strategy, as we are seeing in some media that tell us: The PNV is approaching the PP to make a change of alliances viable? Is this the path you're taking right now? Is this what is happening these days with the approval of the amendment in the Senate? Are they starting to build bridges with the PNV, which brought down a motion of censure to the government? Or are we perhaps faced with an internal push by the People's Party, which cannot be avoided and which we see as: Feijóo joined the demand of the government from Galicia for platforms to have 50 % in Galicia? Is this the new People's Party, so does the People's Party oppose nationalisms? [[makes the gesture of quotes with your fingers]] [[shows a press headline]] [[shows another press headline]] The PP returns, which, with an absolute majority, did nothing when stalking a child in Balaguer. Returns the PP that hid the reports of the High Education Inspectorate in a drawer so as not to bother the independenceists, who then liked them. Go back to that PP or maybe he never left. But there may be another motivation for all this: that, in order to annoy the PSOE, you vote for whatever it is, you even support giving more means to the nationalists. Some strategist in Genoa will have thought: Let's screw up Sánchez and bring back the budgets, even at the expense of screwing up the Spaniards as well. This can only happen to creatures that go from the headquarters of the parties where they are raised from children to the seat in a zipline without treading the ground, without having worked and studied in that way, people absolutely disconnected from reality. For you, citizenship doesn't count. It's a tactic in which partisan endogamy disturbs the institutions, it's a strategy that smells like mold: the PP and the PSOE playing in cuter versions of Napoleon, looking from Genoa to Ferraz no matter what happens outside their headquarters. Only alienated politicians are able to disagree on an investiture and let it depend entirely on the nationalists and the worst of nationalisms, by the way, the one who pays tribute to terrorists. By the way, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, not a month ago they voted against a citizens' law prohibiting tributes to terrorists. Here there were socialist MPs who welcomed the terrorists giving their word that there would be no more tributes; a triumph of democracy, they came to say. I warned them myself that the word of terrorists could not be believed, that the only word that had to be sounded here was that of the rule of law. Since then there have been two tributes, one of them from a child killer and they have announced another to Parot before the end of the year. The Socialist Party, lords of the PSOE, will be responsible for the omission of this atrocity; let them weigh on their consciences these tributes that are taking place. Only politicians who believe that the Spaniards are a means to their ends are able to disagree for general state budgets or for the management of European funds, leaving everything to Otegi's party, but to agree to split up judges, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman or Spanish Broadcasting. They say they fight for the general interest; yes, they fight for the general interest of their parties. Only some guys blinded by ambition are able not to talk about mental health. Only a few people blinded by low politics are able not to speak for a state pact for education, not to speak for labor reform, not to speak to combat precariousness or that the Spaniards can have the children they want, not to speak to avoid being in the hands of nationalism always, but they are able to speak to share armchairs, cover their thesis and master's and control justice by WhatsApp. Today is the paradigm of the kind of politicians we have. The PP wants to give tools to the nationalists because that's how Sánchez gets the general budgets out in the first round. Nationalism is the great benefit of its lack of patriotism. Nationalism is the monster they feed with their thirst tactics. Nationalism is increasingly strong because of its immaturity and relativism. I know that neither Sánchez nor Casado have ever won a euro outside of politics and that they intend to live through it all their lives. I know Sanchez and Casado care more about their party than their country. I'll tell you what, let's see if you're going to worry a little bit: no party survives your country. But what can we expect from those who dissolve a government in Castile and León by ceasing to be named the best family doctor in the world by the World Organization for Family Medicine, ceasing a health counselor in the midst of a pandemic? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u11	One second, Your Honor. Please allow the speaker to continue his address. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u12	Gentlemen of the People's Party, you are slaves of the maneuver, of the stabbing. I will give you a clear example of what never happens to you: the day after you were stopped in Castile and León, the four councillors of Citizens returned to their jobs. Married or Fernández Mañueco have nowhere to go back because they don't come from anywhere. Look, the whole policy is going to come to an end. If what they do here were done in a private company, they would have everyone's reproach and contempt. Here they applaud each other, but cultivate the reproach and contempt of the Spaniards. This can't last long. Spain is not a toy for you to have fun waiting for you to fall for a government that neither of you deserve, but ensuring that you destroy the alternatives that may arise so that, even if it is only by the principle of Archimedes, you will be given the votes. Spain is a people that deserves a much better political class than the one that suffers and sooner or later will have it, and the era of relativism and thirsting childishness will be a bad dream. We will vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u13	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. The BNG will vote in favour of this compromise amendment. Of course, it seems good to us that a sum is allocated to support the different languages, what we find sad is that this item enters from an amendment against the will of the PSOE and that it is the only one of these characteristics together with that of 10.5 million euros in support of audiovisual in official languages that was introduced as a transactional in Congress after the BNG, Esquerra and Bildu Present We make a joint amendment in this respect. It is, in any case, the finding that the parties of the Government fail to fulfil their commitment to recognize in practice the plurinational, pluricultural and multilingual character of the State. Regrettably, it is not the only breach: it continues to be in force and to implement the law on the mordancy of pensions, a modification of pensions that consolidates the most negative elements of the 2011 and 2013 reforms, or a labor reform that committed themselves to repealing yes or yes and that ultimately not only does not repeal, but also maintains the most harmful aspects introduced by the People's Party, such as the ease of dismissal, the reduction of dismissals or the prevalence of state agreements. They can still rectify, but when they do not, it is necessary to clearly point out how the BNG does from sovereignist and leftist positions, because, otherwise, the disappointment and discontent caused by the resignations and non-compliances of PSOE and Podemos can be capitalized by a very skillful ultra-right with their demagogy and populism. Fortunately, in Galicia there is the BNG, always coherent in defense of the interests of our people and of the social majorities of our country, of the Galician popular classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u15	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u16	Thank you very much, President. I think the relevant question today is: why are we here today? Because suddenly the People's Party agrees with Compromís and the Aragonese Chunta, whose amendment is this? Do you agree that the languages protected by the European Charter should be promoted in Galicia, Asturias, the Basque Country, Navarre, Aragon, Catalonia, the Balearic Islands or in the Valencian country? Does the PP agree? Obviously, he doesn't agree. Whoever wants peace does not start linguistic wars one day yes and another in all the territories, in all!, in Catalonia, in Balears, in Asturias and in the Valencian country, one after the other! The other day they passed a motion against linguistic imposition in Alicante. Sea of God, Lord! Linguistic imposition, but what a face they have! What a face the PP has! We're here today because last week the People's Party felt like a scumbag. [[Rumors]] But not a nice scumbag, a scumbag, a scumbag, a show, a naughty kid who, legitimately and democratically, was taken off the ball; he was taken off the ball of power and is of permanent rabies, kicking every day, installed in that non-permanent, sterile, useless. How small the PP of Married has become! And I say it because I've been here a long time, how small this one has been! Yes, the languages we speak millions of citizens need protection and resources, but what they really need is respect, empathy and not hypocritical politicians who one day vote for this amendment and the rest of the year light the fires of tolerance one day and another too, politicians who once and for all understand that their narrow and monolingual country is not our country, it is not the country of millions of people. And by the way, my mother wasn't a nationalist and I don't think she knew what she wanted, she was simply a Valencian, that's why she taught me her language and that's why I speak it, and I'm sure she would be very proud of her son today for defending this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u17	Thank you so much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u18	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if the end-of-year week should come to Congress to ratify the People's Party's budgetary support for Catalan, Basque, Galician, Bable and other languages, it will come and nothing will happen. [[Rumors]] And if next week, which is Reyes' week, you have to come to Parliament because the People's Party has decided to accept again, as it did at the time, linguistic immersion and speak Catalan in privacy, because it comes back and nothing happens, I assure you. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] In any case, next week you already paid Mr. Esteban's food, don't worry, and we'll make it up to you. [[Laughter]] We are going to vote in favour of this amendment, we have no doubt. It's a bit peculiar the situation, but it's what it is. These budgets will be approved and the responsibility of the parliamentary groups that we are going to support with regard to the budgets will end today. As of today, the responsibility for the implementation of this budget will be exclusively with the Government. The parties that have supported it can demand execution, but the responsibility for this budget execution, Mr President, will be your Government's. I told the minister in her day and I repeat it to you: in Catalonia all Catalans will know that if the budgets are not implemented as they are approved it will not be the responsibility of the Democratic Party or the Republican Left or any of those we voted in favour, it will be the responsibility of United Podemos and the Socialist Party. At the moment it all depends on you and on the execution, which in the year 2021 has not been the one we would like, and I am sure that neither do you. Anyway, very good any tothom, happy New Year.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u19	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u20	Thank you, President. What a piece of paper, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. What a piece of paper! What are we doing here? People must know that we are here because we have a pitiful opposition and a right. I'm sorry. Because you don't do politics, you do the troll. What they did in the Senate is do the troll, and I think they're doing their country and politics a weak favor. Everyone knows the enormous contradiction that implies that you, by imitating the far right of this country, go against the linguistic diversity, the cultural diversity of your country and, at the same time, vote in favour of this amendment. Everyone understands. But you know what's worse? That there's a lot of people who don't know what we're doing here. In fact, there are a lot of people who don't know we're here. That's what you're getting: a huge disaffection. I would love for this country, and I think this country deserves it, to have a democratic right, a normalised right; in short, a European right, because I do not imagine countries in our environment with rights like you, doing what you have done in the Senate. This plenary session is of enormous irresponsibility. First of all, for the expense it entails. It involves unnecessary spending on workers, photographers, journalists, women who are here. Why? Because you didn't do politics, you did the troll. And, second irresponsibility, do you believe that there is another work center in this country, with the geographical mobility that exists in this work center, that sets up a meeting like this, with people that we have just met with our families from all over Spain here, together and together, with the contagion that needs to be? [[Several Members say words that are not perceived]] Calm down.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u21	Mrs. Beltran, please. I beg you to continue the plenary more or less as we carried it. Please, I beg you to remain silent and to have the same respect as your spokesman will later deserve. Please, keep quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, often paper; you are making a fool of yourself and you know it perfectly well. I have three messages. The first one, for you. Really, ladies and gentlemen, stop trying to imitate VOX. Stop trying, because one day we'll all have a very unpleasant surprise. I have listened here to Mr. Pablo Casado Making good speeches, good speeches that sat very well on the right of this country. For example, in VOX's motion of censure he made a great speech. It took him a week; a week it took him to make Merkel, a week. Stop imitating VOX. A message for the PSOE: what a disaster. Voting has been a disaster here and in the Senate. Make him look at it. And a message to the government: we know that these are probably budgets for two years; not for one year, for two. And you don't have to say much more. But with so much balance, perhaps they are not the last budgets of the legislature, but perhaps they are your last budgets in Moncloa and the alternative is terrible, so stop doing so much, so much, so much balance. And the theme of the day: labor reform. I have heard Mr Garamendi say that he was happy because a lot of hours and efforts have been devoted to attracting, negotiating, talking to the employer. It's fine, and I get it. In fact, there are personal projects behind which I greatly respect. But do you know how many hours you've spent talking to Republican Left? And that's always a bad business. [[makes the sign of zero by joining index fingers and thumb]] Always. So let's see if between historic day and historic day you can talk to Esquerra, that we still have something to do with it, right? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u23	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u24	Good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning, good morning. It is a pride to be part of a pluricultural, plurinational State, whose linguistic wealth gives us the opportunity to better understand ourselves, to better understand the ways of seeing the world of the other. For this reason, I would like to begin by saying that he welcomed this amendment and that he has come from the Senate to the Lower House, and he welcomed that he will also come forward with such a large majority. I am very proud to be part of a set of cultures where the verses of Blanca Llum Vidal with those of Laura Marcos, those of Luz Pichel with those of Antònia Vicens, those of Beatriz Chivite with those of Aida González Rossi, those of Rosa Berbel with those of Margarida Sampietro, a possible revolution of affections, which Maria Zambrano told us, because languages are bonded. Link. You don't have to go to the speeches of tradition, of the nostalgia of the Self I went to EGB. The link does not go from the romanized past nor is it a question of calling tradition to the experience lived or previously narrated. The link is going to matter and recognize us, and this we do with language, which, far from being a barrier, is a bridge. Something peculiar happens when we are suddenly with people who speak other languages of the whole State. It happens to me in this House without going any further; it happens to me with Catalan Members or with Galician Members, who at the moment when they see that they were part of the conversation, stop using their language because I do not speak Catalan or speak Galician. But what I ask of you, and some of you here know, is that you continue, because that gives me the opportunity to make that effort easy and necessary to understand. I would indeed like to be able to tell MEPs who speak in Basque, because the truth is that I wish they had given me the opportunity to read Tere Irastortza in their original language or to understand Txikitxoko's songs. Something peculiar happens when we are allowed to participate in those conversations to whom we do not speak that co-official or own language, and it is that there is no wall before us, it is that before us there is a bridge. I know because when I speak asturian to someone who doesn't know that language I know I'm exposing myself, I'm risking it. I offer a part of myself, of my way of speaking and understanding the world that is not anything, that has a fragile administrative situation and that, in the case of own languages, like those we speak in Asturias, are languages that are of the people and that, as they are popular, they have systematically denied their rights to their speakers. So this amendment is a material step towards a state proud of its linguistic wealth, good news for the end of the year. And it is not the only one, labour reform has already been mentioned, and I think that we need to make it clear what the role of this House is and what the role of the Government is to improve the lives of the workers in our country. Look, I admit it, at first, between the date we have today and the support that the debate on this amendment made possible today, I thought it was innocent, and I think it was thought by a lot more people. Understand, is that the belligerence with which the People's Party has approached plurality Linguistics combines very badly with this position of you. I understand that in order to solve the paper and to continue at Mass and to repeat, I have read to the lords of the PP to argue that this is culture yes but not for education. I think they just missed saying: for the most part we are still in our thirteen. But you see, what do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, is culture? Do you think they're flowers in the windows in a city, which, by the way, works like a clock? Do you think it's merely ornamental? What do you think they're talking about in the schoolyards? What do you think they're talking about on the way out of school? What do the textbooks refer to? Cultural manifestations. Because culture passes through us and invests in a diverse culture is investing in a diverse society that values this as something good and not as a weakness. It is important for the mandate of the European Charter - the European Face of Regional or Minority Languages has already been mentioned - to go through, here and throughout our legislative framework, the recognition not only of the official languages but also of the languages themselves, which must be present in the next general audiovisual law. We have to recognize it as well as we recognize it in the Education Act, which has not been adopted for so long. And this is not a whim, it is an international treaty that right now, in fact, has the broad support of this House to the point that this amendment is going to come forward. Asturian and Aragonese are languages of their own today that have to enjoy special protection, as also stated in article 4.3 of our Constitution, and some constitutionalists can see that this point is always forgotten. To close, I'm going with another tripling jump that your lordships of the People's Party have had to give in support. The Asturian leaders have gone too far to say that supporting the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is not supporting the officiality of the Asturian and the Galician-Asturian or Eonaviega speech and that, in fact, what they do is to comply with the Law of Use, which they are very proud of because it was adopted in that brief government of the People's Party in Asturias. But what happens is that you have consistently voted against everything that defends the Law of Use: against the recognition of the teaching specialty, which in addition and above all is a question of labor justice; you have voted against respect for toponymy in any signage; you have voted against equal access to translation prizes; for example, you have consistently and belligerently voted against, with aggressive speeches, before what is but a right, and that is why it is necessary to carry out as soon as possible the reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Asturias, so that we have equal rights, let us speak the language we speak in Asturias. Here I appeal to the socialist bench: let us enable the month of January in the Xunta, I ask you, to bring it to your party comrades. Let us enable the month of January at the Xunta to work, to sit down and not get up from the table until there is an agreement, because it is decades and decades of struggle, battles and lives poured into the recognition of a fundamental right. I'm done, President. [[Finish your bable intervention]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u25	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, this simple gesture that I have just done to remove the mask, that we all do here and repeat it with the utmost naturality, is what you are all forbidding to do to the Spaniards in much more ventilated places than it is, even on the outside; you, PSOE and Podemos, from the government of the nation, but all, also the PP and its annex; PSOE and Podemos in the autonomous communities; ERC, PNV, various separatists; you are all enthusiastic about regulating, prohibiting, harassing the Spaniards from all corners of the country with increasingly demanding regulations that you do not apply in Congress, because, as I know, you have not imposed - right? - the COVID passport to access this house, you have not even asked yourselves to come here today. No, of course not. You, what you demand of the Spaniards never demand of yourselves, that's for the others, that's for the Spanish on foot. A real shame of which, I warn you, more and more people are getting tired. But you follow your course. And yours today, here, are the General Budgets of the State, which no longer interest anyone. Because, after weeks of an extensive parliamentary debate here, in Congress, and later in the Senate, the Spanish can no longer speak of this issue. The Spaniards already know that these budgets are a reissue of the budgets of ruin, who are responsible for making Spain today the country of Europe most lagging behind in economic recovery. But we also know something more today: the time since the referral of the budgets to the Senate, the agreements then reached and the support for the amendment that we are debating today, brings new lights, and lights that - let me know - leave many of you portrayed, and the portrait is not beautiful. Let's split it up. If we debate the General Budgets of the State again today it is because the PP - only hours after having refused to support Spanish as a strategic pillar of the foreign policy of the Iberoosphere - joined ERC, the PNV, Junts per Cat, Geroa Bai, Compromís and even Bildu! At best of every house, let's go, to vote in favour of expanding the funding of linguistic chiringuites in the service of separatism. And that's serious. It is serious because it also occurs not at any time - and it is also a recidivist - that occurs twenty-five years after the adoption of the Covenant of the Majestic, when the People's Party and the nationalists gave nature letters to what would then be called linguistic immersion. Today, Spanish is not that it no longer exists in the classrooms of Catalonia, it is that moreover, as we have seen in Canet de Mar, there are families persecuted for claiming their right to have their children educated in Spanish. It occurs after decades of People's Party governments in Galicia. Gaul! Where it is no longer possible to school a child in Spanish. It occurs days after ERC launched an ordago in order to impose on Netflix the emission of percentages of its production in Catalan, a demand to which days later the Galician People's Party joined, with Mr. Feijoo at the front. Ladies and gentlemen, the harassment of Spanish has become the main battle of separatism and today it comes to this House, and it comes with the support of the People's Party, as incredible as it may seem. Well, look, VOX will refuse to support this amendment and we will continue to denounce those who say one thing in Galicia and another in Madrid, one thing in Catalonia and another in Andalusia, and one in Congress and another in the Senate. And socialist and communist ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning we said that the macroeconomic forecasts on which these budgets are based were so implausible and far from reality that they are already delegitimized of origin. They were budgets - we said then - incompatible with mathematics. No one believes them! And, unfortunately, at this time reality has confirmed the worst of our forecasts. Notice, only since 1 December - only since 1 December!, twenty-seven days ago - nothing less than the OECD first, the Bank of Spain then and finally the IMF cut their GDP growth forecasts for Spain and dismantled the government estimates on which these budgets have been drawn up. In the absence of much of the above, today's magazine The Economist publishes an article analysing the response to COVID from the twenty-three richest countries in the world, the twenty-three most advanced countries on the planet. Spain is the last. Last! Last with much difference on the penultimates and arriving at the tail in three of the four parameters analyzed: the evolution of our economy measured as growth of gross domestic product; income, i.e. the incomes of families, and the evolution of our stock exchange values. Spain is the worst of all - he says literally - and that is the conclusion of the report. And in this flattering context, you don't leave a tax behind. You are looking for the largest collection in the history of Spain, because, of course, you are unable to cut yourself a euro, that is for sure. Their budgets do not give up the waste of Pedro Sánchez, they maintain the most expensive structure of government in the history of democracy: twenty-two ministries - whose chairs barely fit in this Chamber -, with their advisers, their chiringuitos, their crazy subsidies to trade unions and friendly media, and you again raise your salary and feed a customer network at their service. But perhaps the most serious thing of all - and we are not going to forget this; we are not going to forget this - is that these accounts arrive in the House with previous laundering, that of a Socialist Party applauding the alleged repentance of Arnaldo Otegi and that of a Minister of the Interior commending the alleged end of the tributes to terrorists. If we want to get the prisoners out, we need to vote on some budgets, because we are voting, they said. The Government did its part. Mr. Marlaska has been approaching to the last of the remaining senior prisoners. He has assured everyone that they are in second prison and has certified the end of the dispersion policy. But his companions have not endured a month without humiliating the victims. Last week the former leader of the terrorist band ETA, Mikel Antza, came to testify to the courts to explain his alleged involvement in the murder of Gregorio Ordóñez. He did so among the applause of the leadership of Bildu. Three days later, the EtarraIgnacio Martín Echeverría, responsible for the murder of five men and a child, was honored in the old town of Pamplona, and today his colleagues in Bildu have just laughed at all of you. At the beginning of the budget debate we said - recalling the words of the mother of Joseba Pagazaurtundua - that these budgets agreed with the heirs of the terrorist band ETA will freeze our blood. I would have liked nothing more than not to be right. Unfortunately we're right and it's very sad. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do yourselves a favor, do yourselves a favor today and do it to others. In a few minutes, when you approve these General State Budgets, do not applaud, do not applaud themselves; your applause will be an insult to the Spaniards, many of them still alive, to whom they are looting, but also many of them dead, to whom they are betraying. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u27	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to say one thing and I want to say it right now. Today, indeed, Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros will be attending the last applause, surely the last self-complacent applause of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. But that applause is precisely the unique reference to the moral and political decay of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which will be heard in all the languages of this country, in all the languages recognized in the Constitution and in the statutes of autonomy. Between the supremacyism of some political formations and the reductionism and even the invocation of non-compliance by other political formations, there is naturality, there is strict compliance with the Constitution and the block of constitutionality, and there obviously the People's Party has been and will always be. [[Applauds]] We are not in favour of linguistic imposition, but neither are we in favour of reductionism, and we are not because this country recognizes it in the Constitution; do not stand outside the Constitution and blame it absolutely nothing. Mr. Bel, I'll tell you something. I too am willing to come here as long as necessary; I am willing to come here until they renounce sovereignism; I am also willing to come here until Mr Rufián renounces his independenceist desires; I am also willing to come here prepared until Mr Aitor Esteban proposes a reform of the PNV statutes to also renounce the sovereignty of the Basque archadia. I have all the time in the world, as my parliamentary group has all the time in the world. [[Applauds]] Having said that, that applause that we are going to hear, that applause that they are going to give themselves today is a applause that really marks a model of making politics, a model based on the cult of the leader that has ended with the best socialist acquis of the past forty years. It is the applause of self-congratulation, it is the applause of the slogans, it is the applause of the hypocrisy and intolerance of a party that begins to praise the lie and begins to disgust me with the truth. Mrs Calviño, if someone praises the lie and disgusts the truth, it is very worrying personally and politically, I really tell you; it is the intolerant hypocrisy of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which has sold us an economic, social and budgetary account that has nothing to do with reality, since it also boldly distances itself from the fragmentation, suffering and suffering of all those Spaniards of good who are today locked in their homes, who today cannot enjoy a natural Christmas and who, of course, would like to be in normal conditions. Because these budgets we are talking about today are bad budgets. Spain is not the last, which is - Spain is the last for logical syllogism, because its government has condemned it to be the last - because the Spaniards do not want to be the last, the Spaniards want to be the first by force, by vigor, by power, because we are the best European society and believe it, but we are the last, toxicly condemned by defeatist policies. [[applause]] We lost 2.8% of the gross domestic product throughout the pandemic. We are the country behind the OECD countries. In the third quarter, according to data, the average of the European Union countries had recovered the total gross domestic product prior to the pandemic, while France was 99.9%, Italy was 98.7%, Germany was 98.3%, and we were 93.4%. They know very well that in November we have seen the highest inflation in Spain in the last thirty years. He knew perfectly well that the ratio of public debt to gross domestic product was equivalent to that of Spain in the Great Depression of 1898. He knows perfectly well that in the first eight months of the year we were endorsed by an additional deficit of €55 billion. You know perfectly well they're going to pay us taxes, because that's a religion. There you are not wrong, from the point of view of your moral and intellectual coherence; no matter whether the economy grows or lowers the economy, you always raise taxes. Under that kind of maximalist state maximalist state that is only maximal for you, from resistance manual we have moved to manual resistance, because you want to remain in power thanks to your president and to the personal cult to the leader you have had for a long time. And I continue, because the last applause that you are going to give here today is a applause that you will hear in all the languages of this country all the Spanish citizens. By the way, the next time Igea goes up to this rostrum that goes up in Igea's present body, not in Diaz's body, because you have already gone into electoral campaign in the worst possible way. [[Applauds]] Faced with this buenista, maniqueo discourse, that discourse of official propaganda, which is a broken commodity, of 'we are not going to leave anyone behind' - which is said in rag language, not in official language - that discourse really hides many people who have left behind, and I will tell you: they have left behind tens of thousands of professionals, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, hoteliers, farmers and cattle farmers, to whom, in principle, they hid the crisis and, afterward, they took wrong steps to finally apply what the Socialist Party always does, which is to dilute responsibility and end up giving it to others. Look, we don't share the diagnosis; we know that. We do not share the economic and budgetary policy they do, but I ask you, as a public official, to use the three million public employees correctly to manage Community funds. Because it's not about receiving the funds, it's about granting them! It's about getting them to society! It is about reaching small and medium-sized enterprises and families! Do not treacherous triumphalism; do not do this kind of frivolous policy that is absolutely useless. But do you know who they left behind too? To Calvo, to Ábalos, to the myth-timo of Ivan Redondo, who were like a calcined fuses that had to be removed to see if we could repair the Frankenstein, because the president is permanently dedicated to suture the monster. But do you know who they left behind? To that Catalan society which is honestly loyal and which they have paid with the currency of contempt. Because at the beginning of the transition there were two Spains, there were two speeds; now there are also two speeds, Spain of the disloyals, which goes at higher speed, and Spain of the loyals, who want to confine us to the corner of the lowest speed. [[Applauds]] But also - and I conclude - they have left behind the victims and relatives of the victims of terrorism. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have made a parliamentary tribute, the tribute of sitting at the table with Bildu to try to suture that original sin of the pact by which you rule right now in this country. But, above all, they have left all the Spaniards behind; they know it in the shopping basket, they know it with the cost of energy. That will be his last applause, the applause that will be given today; that applause that, I insist, will be the last; and it will be the last for one reason, because when the lights of this Chamber are turned off it will only be the sound of his self-Applause. Meanwhile, the Spaniards will stay at their homes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u29	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u30	And remember - I finish, Mr President - that this applause is the last thing you will hear in this House, because the ballot boxes and the votes will put you where they belong. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u31	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u32	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, president, ministers and ministers. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we want to start our speech by thanking the People's Party for giving us the opportunity to vote in favour not once or twice, but up to three times the General Budgets of the State, explaining that they are the budgets that our country needs; budgets based on dialogue and consensus, reflecting the spirit of the Constitution. [[applause]] At this point we want to highlight the work done by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, both in Congress and in the Senate. There has been no disaster in the vote, we have been able to reach an agreement in the Congress of Deputies with eleven political parties, we have been able to add to the Senate four more political parties, thus reaching fifteen political parties that join the agreement. [[Applauds]] They scream a lot, but there's a lot more of us. So make no mistake, gentlemen of the People's Party, because they are not the budgets of the veto, but rather the budgets of respect, respect for the parliamentary majority and respect for the majority of the citizens of our country. You say you've put a goal on the government in the Senate. Rather, they have put a goal in their own door; a goal that shows their irresponsible opposition, a goal that shows their useless political opposition, a goal that shows to what extent their despair comes. Mr. Garcés told us they don't want to be the last. Relax. If you're the first! They are the first in Europe to exercise an opposition that serves nothing but to be irresponsible, that seeks any stumbling block to hinder absolutely everything. You are the first to demonstrate your despair in Europe, which accepts an amendment in the Senate that promotes the use of co-official languages just one week after the bronchus debate we have here on these languages. Or don't you remember? Does Mr. Married, who is here, not remember that the children who spoke Spanish in Catalonia could not do their needs? Don't you remember? Don't you remember that Spanish is not spoken in the classrooms in Catalonia? Don't you remember that Spanish had to be defended more in Catalonia? That's what they said. I guess they said it to compete with VOX. Well, look, competing with VOX is nothing more than lying to VOX. To compete with VOX what has to be done is not to agree with VOX. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, in the face of their irresponsibility, in the face of their futility, in the face of their despair - listen well and see well today's green button - the budgets will be approved in time and form for the second consecutive year. And this is good news for citizens, it is bad news for you, as was the achievement of European funds: good news for citizens, bad news for you. Of course it is about granting them European funds, Mr Garcés! Of course I do! What's not about boycotting them. It is also good news the reform of the labour market, the agreement that has been reached between employers and trade unions: good news for the workers of our country, bad news for you. As has been the pension reform: good news for our pensioners, bad news for you. You see, they've had a bad year. In our country 2022 there will be decent wages, despite you; there will be decent pensions, despite you; there will be measures to combat child poverty, despite you; there will be measures to help young people to emancipation, despite you; there will be a new housing policy, new social policies and there will also be policies to combat gender-based violence. And all thanks and despite you. [[Applauds]] And it is that you live from the mess, only from the mess and you have come to bind so much that today we are here because you have come to bind yourselves. Fifteen days ago, as I was telling you, a very tense debate on the co-official languages took place in this Chamber. Instead today, what are you going to vote for? That the use of co-official languages must be defended and promoted, actions must be taken to safeguard them, more economic means, more teaching in Catalan, Basque, Basque, Galician in Asturian and Aragonese; to facilitate their use in public, oral and written administrations. This is what the amendment that we are bringing here today approved by the Senate says. As the President said, if this serves the People's Party to reconsider its policy of promoting co-official languages, welcome is the amendment. [[Applauds]] You have chosen child policy as a way to oppose it. Fifteen days ago, it was against the co-official languages to annoy the Government. A week ago, in the Senate, he voted in favour of the co-official languages to annoy the government. It is childish, but as much as you choose this childish policy, let me tell you that in that the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to ask you one thing: we want to ask you to stop using minors; we ask you to stop using the name and surname of minors to do your mud policy; stop exposing them publicly, minors must always be defended since their anonymity. [[Mr. Garcés Sanagustín makes negative signs]] Finally, our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment because the Socialists have always advocated and defended linguistic immersion. I ended with a reflection that said Marta Mata Garriga, teacher, pedagogue and deputy for the Socialist Party of Catalonia, for the PSC, in these General Courts from the 1st Constituent Legislature until 1980, tireless fighter of the defense of Catalan in schools, speaker and promoter of the Law of Linguistic Immersion. He said to us: Viscerality settles in the wounded, it comes out when they feel attacked. When one governs, one must prevail the rationality and politics of the stretched hand. There are three days left before the end of the year, go out of viscerality and go back to reasoning. Happy New Year and thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u33	On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good afternoon now. We are prepared to approve the second consecutive general budgets in time and form, something that did not happen, as has been said, since 2014, and we will do so when Spain demands more agreements and more needs budgets that consolidate the just economic recovery. I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the fifteen political formations that, thanks to dialogue and agreement, have made possible these new General State Budgets. [[Applauds]] I would also like to extend this thanks to the social partners, employers and trade unions. Over the course of this term we have achieved more than twelve agreements in almost two years, which have enabled us, among many other issues, in this painful pandemic for the Spanish and Spanish, to save jobs and protect the economic activity of a multitude of small, medium-sized, large businesses, self-employed workers and businesses. Agreements that have also been extended, for example, to the guarantee - as has been mentioned here - of decent retirements and to the maintenance of our public pension system, and this past week the very important agreement to modernise our labour relations. With both agreements, of enormous social and economic significance, we put an end to the counter-reforms imposed by other majorities in the years 2012 and 2013. I firmly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the social agreement is the best recipe for inclusive and sustainable structural reforms over time. Spain, as you know, is growing but needs to grow even more and for that we need agreements, all possible agreements, as wide as possible. We also close the year, ladies and gentlemen, with the best of the messages, with budgets approved by a large majority and with a great social agreement that combines the flexibility that our companies need with the security that workers deserve. In short, the aim is to curb job insecurity and reduce structural unemployment in our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey another message to the Spanish and Spanish. We are beginning to leave behind those who will most likely - I think we all agree on this - have been the two darkest years of our lives and of most human beings, and at this time I must thank the exemplary conduct of the Spanish and Spanish in this crisis, the resistance to sacrifice, solidarity in the face of emergency and responsibility for vaccination. The Spanish and Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, have given a lesson in true patriotism. [[Applauds]] We have passed, and still have, extreme, complex situations, in which all institutions, with our successes and also with our mistakes, have tried to find the best answers to defend the life and public health of our compatriots. We know that vaccination, personal protection against this disease and institutional unity are the three pillars on which our strategy against COVID-19 must continue to rest. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in the coming year Spain will move forward and do so in a climate of serenity and agreement, the more, the better, and the wider, the better. I hope that these two major agreements that close this year, budgetary and labour, are only the prologue of many more coming in the year 2022. Happy year and thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and other parliamentary groups supporting the Government, and from the members of the Government, who stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the result of the vote, I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the President, Meritxell Batet, and of the entire Bureau, to wish you a happy year of 2022. I hope that everyone who is now infected will recover soon and well.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. Please, take a seat and remain silent. We begin with the single item on the agenda, corresponding to the amendments adopted by the Senate to the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022. Mr Gimeno has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the draft budget law in the Senate, we support this amendment for the promotion and dissemination of the protected languages of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, including Aragonese, and we will support it here, too, in Congress. Next January 1 begins a key year to reverse territorial imbalances and fight against depopulation. The Government must assume responsibility; both in the implementation of budgets and in each of the actions must be evident the sincere commitment of this Government to territorial rebalancing and the fight against depopulation. It is the moment of truth, to move from words and the theoretical solution of the problem to facts, to the taking of measures, with real impact on the correction of the model of development followed so far, which has led us to the progressive emptied of a part of our territory. The demands must be met, citizens must be treated on an equal footing. We would also like Congressional plenary to assume that we are facing a country challenge. It is therefore necessary to apply with urgency and intelligence real measures such as locating the necessary strategic reindustrialization of the country in the towns and cities of emptied Spain. We will contribute to solving two challenges simultaneously: industrialization and territorial rebalancing with the same investment. We must ensure connectivity with 100 mega fibre optics throughout the countryside. We need to develop 5G in places as a priority and to train people and businesses in this rural environment in digital skills. The conventional train must be modernized, looking for a mesh network in front of the single transport model based on the radial AVE. We must address historical deficits in road infrastructure and provide sufficient accessibility to all territories. Aid for the operation of enterprises which the European Union authorises for sparsely populated areas must be applied. We have to apply differentiated taxation measures based on the severity of the depopulation suffered by the territories and because they do not receive the same services. We must tackle, without fear or complexity, the deconcentration of headquarters of the central administration and of public enterprises, and not only of those which are created new, but also of those already existing. The rural guarantee mechanism must be designed by reaching the legislation and political action of the administrations. We must promote telework from emptied Spain; implement a housing plan in rural areas; support for self-consumption of renewable energy and energy communities; and sign a state pact against depopulation, as the Congress proposed to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-12-28-CD211228.u40	Having completed the deadline for the issuance of the vote by the telematic procedure relating to the amendment adopted by the Senate to the State General Budgets Bill for the year 2022, proceed to state the outcome of the vote. Votes cast, 344; in favour, 281; against, 62; abstentions, 1. Consequently, the Senate amendment was approved and the State General Budgets for 2022 were definitively approved. [[Prolonged applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Groups, Confederal de União Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and other parliamentary groups supporting the Government, and of the members of the Government, standing]] The meeting rose. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
