ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We continue with the item on the agenda for the debate on the entire draft law on contaminated waste and soil. I should like to inform you that the Republican Parliamentary Group has called for this bill to be brought to justice. That request shall be put to the vote after the vote on the amendment as a whole. An amendment to the full refund has been submitted to this bill. For the defence of the amendment tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mr Gestoso de Miguel. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u2	Good morning, thank you very much. With all due respect, Madam President. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u3	Mr. Gesto, wait a second. I'm asking for a little silence, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union established in the Waste Framework Directive or Directive 2008/98/EC the waste hierarchy which was subsequently transposed into Law 22/2011 of 28 July 2011 on Contaminated Wastes and Soils and which consists, in this order, of the following actions: prevention, screening, reuse, recycling, recovery and finally disposal at landfills. This principle of hierarchy, as set out in the second paragraph of the first preamble, aims to dissociate the relationship between economic growth and waste production. They probably already knew all the politicians who made these laws that proposed a policy that was unsustainable and difficult to develop and comply with. Law 22/2011 places special emphasis on prevention and, however, the text we amend today does not deal with prevention as it does not establish measures or defends that the best residue is the one that does not generate. An attempt was made to have a common position for all Member States by establishing the Sustainable Development Goals that the European Union imposed in 2015 and that Spain has failed to fulfil, as published in the table drawn up by the Foundation for the Circular Economy in its 2020 report. Your ladies and gentlemen can read the 2020 data and the objectives that have been proposed and see how they differ, as I say to you, from the table I have just mentioned. We are surprised how the Sustainable Development Goals, which so many ink rivers have generated, have been systematically breached by Spain with all the governments of consensus progressing successively. The reform of Directive 2018/851 promotes greater interventionism with the circular economy instrument and more tools for governance - as they say with this new 'word' progress - which are nothing more than systematic injections of public money to sustain the unsustainable. In addition, in the Circular Economy Action Plan, plastics are identified as a priority for intervention and this is where they realize that there is no business around certain materials susceptible to this circular economy. In this text you forget what you have identified as a priority, which is prevention in the waste hierarchy. You forget that the number one objective was to safeguard the environment and people's health and to seek efficient use of waste. They have turned it into what for you is nothing but the injection of money for the artificial market, at the expense of the Spanish business fabric, our autonomous and middle classes. In VOX we demand to automate and speed up the resolutions of the authorization procedures so that companies remain competitive in the current environment. You are committed to the prevention of interference, the intrusion of politicians into productive models, and yet in VOX we think that it is the R & D & i departments themselves of companies and not the politicians who can best innovate and develop their own materials exempt from toxic origin determined to valorise or packages prepared for 100% recovery technologies, technologies that produce zero waste and other viable, real and patent- and market-competitive initiatives. It should also be the companies themselves that establish the channels of interaction with their final customers for the return to origin, recycling or valorization of their own products and continents. We therefore suggest that producers establish on the label of each product what to do with the residue and that we stop criminalising the Spaniards for being confused in the bucket of selective collection. This text should set ambitious targets for the reduction of waste at source, re-use or elimination of the toxicity of food packaging, which are essential for real convergence with the European policies you claim. For example, the increase in the life cycle of products such as LEDs should be encouraged and given priority, the manufacturer should be guaranteed more time, quality controls should be required on imported products and the so-called programmed obsolescence should be combated. However, with this interpretation oriented towards the business that you give, this text obliges new separate collections to the municipalities without giving them any departures for it. You are forcing companies to design the products and packaging that politicians want, not companies' R & D & I departments. Force you to ensure that the return of the packages is translated into penalties and taxes. You are also committed to reducing the consumption of products that are not profitable for lobbies and to banning plastics without time for companies to adapt to it and innovate. It is you who have generated the problem of the exacerbated entropy and insist on the error trying to solve the problem created, forcing selective collection by public administrations and forcing companies to the previous ecodesigns, instead of collecting the simple proposals we make from VOX. This marking at the discretion of the companies and of the productivity of the Spanish market is inconceivable, if we also join it to the greater competitive interventionism that this law provokes. This is to give politicians and autonomous communities the power to regulate, for example, the qualification of an end-of-residue condition against equal opportunities and the equal market for all enterprises throughout the national territory. It is extremely surprising that, while the aim is to harmonise criteria between the Member States of the European Union, this government is pursuing market balkanisation and regulation through seventeen developments of autonomous rates which will generate a fragmented and unequal market. Nor can we consider valid the anti-nature regulation of unfair competition from local authorities vis-à-vis other private managers, which reflects a lack of political will to let businesses and self-employed people work. In VOX we believe that it is no time for more taxes, because there is no Spain for that. It is not true that they penalize the producer for bad practice or that they penalize a bad productive policy. It is not entirely true that the polluter pays. The real thing is that all these taxes end up being passed on to SMEs, to the self-employed and to all Spaniards. It's not tax time when Spain is in ruin. Even the Council of State's opinion on the draft was precisely about the risk that these new burdens could entail an insurmountable cost for many economic operators. The criminalization of the energy assessment of non-recyclable rejections compared to dumping can lead to a collection scale of autonomous communities that will be ruinous for the business fabric. As regards the tax on non-reusable plastic packaging, in Title VIII, Articles 73 to 88, we propose its elimination, because it is not the time for such a burden for thousands of producing companies, since instead there is a margin of three to five years for their readaptation. This penalty is not fair to consumers and intermediaries, because all products are sold packaged and we have no nose but to consume them like this. With regard to the tax on landfilling and incineration and co-incineration of Title VIII, Articles 91 to 103, in VOX we propose that all barriers to the energy recovery of non-recyclable discards should be removed from landfill. If we tell them that there is a technique that quickly reduces the waste to 14% by volume and weight; that it is the fastest, cleanest waste reduction technique and also destroys the organic components; that the emissions are in line with the environmental limit values set by the European Union; that it allows the recovery of energy in electricity, steam or heat, and that the molecular oxidation is also complete, which will always be below 3% to 5% for the emission, everything will sound bad to them and will sound Chinese - never better said - because it is not part of the artificial and sustained business for the placement of friends and the creation of organisms and chiringuitos, which is what the environment serves for you. We propose that municipal waste can be treated in grill ovens in the grading plants themselves. They allow companies to be efficient. We propose that hazardous waste can be treated in rotary furnaces in order to also manage solids, liquids and gases. You all know that the clean-up and filtering of emissions from burns perfectly meets the European Union's environmental limits and values. Now technology is ready and innovation offers alternatives and, if not, look at Germany and Denmark, where incineration is an ordinary technology. They know that the efficiency of incineration brings raw yields of 18 to 25 % and that it is treatment to allow, recommended, clean and cost-effective. In Taurus language, why do we believe in VOX that this bull must be returned to the corrals? Firstly, because it is a law that does not prioritise the prevention and encourage serial production of certain plastics; because it seeks to break down oxiplastic companies without allowing them to adapt; because it repeatedly imposes on businesses and self-employed people, harms the freedom of the market and of entrepreneurship and is a festival of interventionism and prohibitions; because, in the face of the alleged harmonisation of criteria between the Member States, this bill seeks the balcanization of the market and deepens the inequality between the Spanish people; because technologies are taxed - I am finishing - such as incineration and penalise producers and managers preventively; because it says it seeks the circular economy and does not even define it; also because it does not differentiate between municipal and domestic waste and other concepts that it then handles; because it is abundant in hyperregulation and excessive bureaucracy that only a few companies will be able to withstand; because it does not speed up authorisation procedures or weaken procedures; and because it does not distributes clear competences between administrations and there are no control or control bodies. In conclusion, as Santiago Abascal says, I am very concerned that a new religion will be adopted with the climate emergency and that the pagans of that new religion...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u5	Mr. Gesto, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u6	...be the most humble people. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Gestoso. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Gimeno, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, from Teruel Existe we will try to bring the vision of the rural environment and of small cities to seek improvements in this draft law on polluting waste and soil. It is a very complex law because of the diversity of issues it addresses, by the economic sectors affected and by the intervention of different administrations, especially local authorities. It is an essential law to move towards a circular economy, but its results will depend not only on the correctness of the postulates and policies adopted, but on the responsible involvement of citizens and businesses and on the daily actions and customs of millions of households and people. The bill seeks, first, to reduce the waste generated; secondly, to organize collection and treatment; and, finally, to achieve a circular economy. With this approach, we will draw attention to livestock waste, in particular manure and purines. The law hardly addresses the issue in article 28 with a restrictive approach; in fact, the words manure and purin are not in the law. In addition, there is a European and autonomous regulation, in addition to autonomous plans, but complementary regulatory development, such as rules for the sustainable use of agricultural land, which the Ministry of Agriculture announced in 2020 but which has not yet published, will be necessary. We believe that this waste law should set certain lines to ensure that manure is incorporated into the circular economy in a more complete and efficient manner. Given the time available, we will limit ourselves to the pig cabin. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, in May 2020 there were more than 31 million pigs in Spain, of which 8.7 million were in Aragon. Technicians estimate that pigs produce daily excrement, manure and purines representing between 5 and 10 % of their weight. Some criteria that we need to improve in this law are to manage, treat and value a residue that, as we see, is so important to involve and a problem that threatens the profitability of livestock farms, when it should be an additional source of wealth for farmers themselves. The manure and purines are a residue that, without treatment, pollutes yacufer soils. However, with good regulation, a specific research and development line, together with its own management of the circular economy, compost can be obtained as organic fertilizer, biogas and biomethane in facilities distributed throughout the country, both for self-consumption and for distribution and sale; that is, as this law purports, to convert the residue into a source of wealth. Thus, one of the technologies that exists in Europe and that in Spain has hardly been developed is the exploitation by anaerobic digestion. For example, in Germany there are more than 10 000 biogas plants associated with farms, in Italy 1600 and in France 470. In Spain, despite having the second pig herd, there are barely 200. In Teruel there are two purification plants and neither of them works. In other words, we have an excellent opportunity to correct this problem and to help the livestock sector, which is and must continue to be an important source of wealth in so many regions of inland Spain. This law has many challenges, but it is an excellent opportunity to help the livestock sector solve this problem and to generate a new source of wealth from manure and purines. In this particular case, we will not support the amendment as a whole, and we hope to make our contribution to the process of partial amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Parliamentary Group itself, Mr Quevedo Iturbe has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. Serve the first words that I have the honour to say today to point out that we are going to support the handling of this bill, because we believe that in Spain, and specifically in Canary Islands, we are not exactly at the forefront of waste management policies and the fight against contaminated soils. It is absolutely imperative to have a powerful law, assimilated with the major European proposals and with a clear vision of the future. As the preamble to the draft law rightly states, it is clear that waste management in the Spanish State rests essentially on the landfill, and this is an issue that we must resolve, because in a limited territory, such as the Canary Islands, the main environmental problem of the future is precisely the management of waste in contaminated soils. The issue of landfills is therefore not part of the solution, but part of the problem. We share the basic objectives: promoting the principles of the circular economy, contributing to the fight against climate change or protecting the marine environment. We have no doubt that these objectives coincide with the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. We also value the principle of hierarchy, because it is still a key instrument to dissociate the harmful relationship between economic growth and waste production. If economic growth is necessarily associated with further mistreatment of our environment, then that economic growth is not healthy. We attach special importance to the preventive management of waste, because we either act before or after crying everyone in the park. We highlight many of the amendments that we have seen from different groups, in particular from the Residuo Zero Alliance, which has sent us its positions, as well as from some industrial sectors, basically, from the Canary Islands. We particularly emphasize the defence of the legislative competence of the Autonomous Communities. Not all autonomous communities are equal and not all have the same problem in relation to waste in terms of its size and the difficulty of its approach. We note the need to establish a realistic plan to stimulate technological renewal in order to put public administrations and the industrial sector in a position to meet the challenges they are facing. This isn't done alone. We have absolutely obsolete technology in most cases and it will not be easy to solve it if we do not meet the financial and economic needs of innovation. And a singularity. Article 18.3 points out - and we understand it - the promotion of drinking water consumption in public administrations and in the hospitality and catering sector. If you want all the lagents involved in this to die of thirst in the Canary Islands, we just have to follow this. It must be understood that in some places drinking water is not exactly an alternative, so that there are some proposals related to mineral waters, which are necessarily those that we canaries drink in general, and which we believe should be considered. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Quevedo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u12	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I will begin by casting any doubt on our position on the whole amendment that is being tabled: we will vote against it. There is no other possibility or sense of vote in the face of a cluster of misconceptions such as the one that VOX brings us back here to reaffirm its climate negationism, to reaffirm its will to keep things as they are and, above all, not to surrender to the evidence, because the climate emergency is not just a fashion or just a subjective interpretation, but, unfortunately for all and for all, it is a real evidence and a real threat. We will vote against because we do not have much ground for meeting or discussion with those who believe that unlimited economic growth, even in its most developmental version and model, is above the right to health and the finite limits of the planet itself. We will vote against, in short, because we refuse to take part in this ceremony of the confusion that climate negationism has been doing in a systematic and repeated way. We have no other logic than that which defends that campaigns of social awareness through public intervention are harmful to citizens and citizens, for those who systematically attack the self-government of our autonomous community, in this case, of the Basque, or of the Navarra Foral Community. There is no room for dialogue with those who want to take forward the institutional realities that we have been building the Basques with many difficulties. We are being told about the harm done to the workers. What is more, today it is finished from this atril - as has been done - with a logic that says that laws like these attack the most humble people. In essence, that is the logic of the extreme right to justify their positions of themselves, which are difficult to justify: to put forward a hypothetical injury to the workers, to the most disadvantaged people in society, in order, in short, to maintain a status of privilege for those who command and determine how we all have to live. How can they explain to us, if not, who are the people who work in the polluting companies, in the companies that put the health of their workers at risk, in the companies that have high levels of toxicity? Is it the employers who put their lives at risk for a poor wage or are they workers? Who are those who live near the polluting companies, the companies that work with toxic products or the landfills themselves? Are economic and business elites - I don't care about Neguri or Moraleja - or are they the workers who have to endure in their living environments such facilities? In short, they pose the same false rhetoric as ever. And there is one thing that attracts our attention and that we like - I will not deny it -: we are told that they are deeply concerned about the failure of market unity. This is probably the adaptation to the 21st century of the unity of destiny in the universal that was Spain. That is, if you really are concerned that this law breaks the unity of the market, we have no better argument to be in favour of the development of this law than precisely that, that the unity of the market that is making us all slaves and goods at the service of the interests of a few is broken at once. And, of course, I couldn't miss the mention of China in this band of magic realism of the far right. The Chinese ghost also had to appear on this occasion and in this debate. The position was not rounded up if we did not bring the enemy of this century and I do not know if of this millennium, which is the Chinese, everything that we do as developed societies. Having said all this, in antithesis, I will also say that this does not mean that the law is good. That is, everything I have pointed out as negative of the amendment to the whole of VOX is not good for the law, because the law is frankly improved. It is not yet a transformative law to advance the preventive management of waste and it is very short, it is very timid; moreover, it is so timid that it makes itself to some extent unusable. It lacks concreteness, lacks development and control indicators for the degree of achievement of the objectives. Without that a law is nothing but a wet paper; it is nothing more than a mere declaration of intent if we do not set a timetable, if we do not set percentages and if we do not set commitments for their fulfilment. As I say, there are unambitious objectives and a lack of vision for the future that we are extremely concerned about. It is a question, ladies and gentlemen, of moving from recycling society to zero waste society and that is not to be done with determination in this law or, at least, it is not to be seen with the determination that is needed. There is a need to increase reuse and to stop premature obsolescence, and too much progress is not seen in this area. Much more progress needs to be made on the producer's expanded responsibility; that is, the polluter pays, has many or few money and is higher or lower on the IBEX 35 list. It is also a question of ensuring that environmental taxation is a real, efficient and resource-efficient instrument and, therefore, more investment is needed in environmental taxation if the commitment to environmental taxation is to be much more robust and the dumping, incineration and co-incineration are to be weighed down. We also lack a more developed reality about what the deposit, return and return system has to be and, above all, we believe that the capacity of certain autonomous communities must be safeguarded to continue to do recycling policies, to continue to do waste reduction policies to achieve the zero residue target, as different autonomous communities have been doing. It must be remembered that the waste law of Nafarroa or that of the Balearic Islands is a reality to be exported or imported, depending on where one looks from, and not so much a hypothetical threat. It is therefore necessary to defend the legislative competence of the autonomous communities to make their own environmental policies, because, if it is always said that the institution closest to the citizen is usually the most effective and the most useful, it will also, by pure obvious logic, be that the autonomous institution will be much more effective and efficient than the central institution itself in addressing a reality that no one better than them and they know. We will therefore vote against the amendment as a whole and put forward different amendments throughout the process of dealing with this very law. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u14	Thank you, President. Egun on, good morning. To move from a linear economy to a real circular economy, to move from extracting, manufacturing, using and throwing waste to considering waste as a resource, to designing products to be reused: in this context, it is where we believe the waste law is framed. We are dealing with a draft law revising the existing legislation on contaminated waste and soil to meet the objectives set by Europe, as well as the transposition of the waste directives and the directive on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. It is a law that therefore deals with the environment and the economy, we also understand that the main concerns of the citizenry. It is a law whose main objectives are to establish measures to protect the environment and health through the prevention and reduction of waste generation and its adverse impacts on the environment and, on the other hand, to limit single-use plastics through the establishment of restrictions so that they can be placed on the market, as well as the establishment of tax measures. It is a law in which, of course, we will have to analyse all the factors in a balanced manner and take account of all the sectors involved, trying to legislate rigorously and carefully to reach consensus between all the political groups and to ensure that the law is an effective instrument for moving forward on circular economy and that it does not remain in a declaration of intent. Having said that, my group is not going to discuss this law today, because for that there will be time in the Commission, when we have on the table all the amendments that each group considers appropriate. We are debating today, therefore, whether or not we need to withdraw the law, and for my group, of course, this bill is much better, but it is by no means worthy of an amendment to the whole. My Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV, will therefore vote against this amendment. You, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, today you are bringing us another amendment more to the whole, an amendment which I believe the rest of the groups were already thinking of presenting, was predictable, because this is what you are doing before all the projects, and I really believe it is more of a marketing strategy to have more minutes in this rostrum. At least what they have not done today has been to talk about a totum revolutionum and have been more consistent with the amendment and its justification. But it is an amendment that we want 100 per cent. Really, how right some people are when they say paper can handle everything. In this case it is very true, because the role that you have presented bears all the weight that is described at each point, that you respond to your idea of negationism about climate change. I am only going to refer to the fourth point, and it is the local administrations that have competence in the field of waste and those that have been committed to sustainable waste management, with a cost, of course, adjusted and we understand that with the highest levels of environmental protection. You, without any justification or foundation, strike at the autonomous communities. Not content, moreover, they accuse them of discretion, obviating, therefore, as they cannot otherwise be able on your part, the territorial and competitive distribution and proposing a re-centralisation, uniformity and market unity as a panacea of efficient management, without any basis and with which this group is not and will never agree. We are going to bet on this law - and I am going to tell you this - to safeguard the competences of the autonomous communities, which are the ones best aware of their territorial and economic reality. And, of course, your amendment does not deserve any more words from this group. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an amendment by the VOX Parliamentary Group to the waste law, almost the second part of the VOX negationism: first it went to the Climate Change Act and now it is to the waste law, in addition to the one on ecological transition. We do not think it is a good law, we believe it is missing a lot, but that is what the amendments are for, the process of drafting amendments, because they think that we are before a law that is brought in order to transpose a directive, that is to say, we have to comply with all the directives that come from Europe, so it does not make any sense to us. We cannot deny that there is climate change, we cannot deny the problem with waste, so voting in favour of this return amendment seems almost irresponsible to us. I will therefore be brief and tell you that we will vote against this refund amendment. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sabanes Nadal has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u18	Thank you, President. From our group we are going to vote against the amendment to the totality that is presented to us today because it is a clear and consistent exercise of irresponsibility, negation, demagogic, contradictory and without alternative, such as, in reality, VOX policy, which, speaking of waste, is a policy of using and throwing away or waste policy. Returning the law at this time, when we have the urgency to transpose the directives of 2018, of waste, and 2019, of plastics of one use? You are immeasurable and negating with climate change, with the law, but also with Europe, and we are not, Your Honor. Secondly, in some paragraphs - it has already been said - they seem to criticize with the mouth small lobbies of producers as a whole, when in the following paragraphs they give and want to give all the ease to producers individually. A little serious, ladies and gentlemen: to take precedence one by one, to criticize the whole and to continue to consider the waste as a business. What happens is that they don't like, they must want another business, in this case based on incineration and their power groups. A little serious, because the amendment to the whole they have put forward is entrepreneurship. They defend the incineration by layer and sword, but they criticize the waste for the business, and what they must want is their own waste chiringuit. That's what you're doing. I would like to conclude by talking about the law, what it means and the alternatives, and we must acknowledge that twenty-five years of the integrated management and accountability system extended to the producer has not worked. We have not managed to reduce it, we have not managed to solve the problems of the municipalities, we have landfills and a very complicated situation in waste management. Therefore, we want to move from a recycling society to a horizontal zero waste, introducing new storage, packaging and return systems and models that are working and have to evolve the situation fundamentally towards reduction. We cannot continue to raise an infinite use of resources that do not allow the management of cities or the planet. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sabanes. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] I also have the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u20	Thank you, President. Surely the image of the head of a turtle embedded in the plastic ring of the soda pack we bought in the super has done much more for awareness to preserve the planet than many of the speeches we can make in this House. And it's curious, here we are at turtle's pace trying not to get late to that place from which the last ship sails to salvation. I compare with you on behalf of a long Catalan tradition in the regulation of recycling and waste management, taking advantage of the opportunity of the proposed amendment to the whole of VOX - we will vote against -, which appears, in response to some of your complaints, not to be aware that this project is not a whim of the Spanish legislator, because, like the turtle, the waste bill has gone so slow that it is late. For four years now, the European Commission has been reprimanding the Spanish State for failing to do its duties within the framework of the Early Warning Report; come on, I'll let you know soon enough to start solving the problem. They gave them a touch again last year, but here we are moving slowly. One of the key measures of this bill is the imposition of a uniform tax with a collection effort which seeks to tax the landfilling and incineration of waste in the entire territory of the State in the same way and throughout the State. It is a tax with which we cannot agree as it stands, when Catalonia has been applying environmental taxes to these activities since 2004 based on internationally recognised segmentation. The representatives of the Catalan Waste Agency have been accustomed to the roundtables and events of the sector in Europe to share the good practices promoted by the Generalitat in this field, an area of which, in application of the Statute, has competences, that is, that, in addition to considering that there are better ways of applying the waste tax from Catalonia, we must tell them that we are invading competences with this law. Both the original proposal of the Government and the amendment to the whole presented by VOX make the big mistake of reducing - in the model of the Government - or eliminating - in the VOX - the autonomous initiatives that work, standardizing measures and criteria for all the territories of the State. The defence of equality between all Spaniards deployed by VOX in its amendment to the whole is intended to ensure that everyone manages waste in a centralized and equal way, that is to say, the same as bad. Stop putting your head in the shell, listen to the voices that bring courage, and I am not saying this for me, of course, but for the experts, who take us many years of advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, the same body that blamed the State for being at the tail of the European Union in waste management chose at the Virtuous Circle of 2019 in Catalonia as one of the best examples at European level of how to apply incentives to improve the citizen and industrial management of waste, in particular as regards the Catalan canon for its simplicity, deeply environmental approach, which is not merely collectional, and functionality. What does the Government do when, after multiple warnings from the Commission, it pushes its own law to put an end to the mismanagement resulting from the chaos in the state? Are you looking around? Do you select the best practices? No, it pulls many of these ideas into the grey container, that of waste; in Catalonia we call it l'rebuig, of rejection, a word that fits the situation more. Separate and recycle good practices, Catalan or not, for the good of all, instead of imposing a collectory and inflexible fee. Pedro Sánchez says he loves Catalans. We ask him for respect, and one way to practice it, to prove it, is by listening to them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u22	Thank you, President. I have already told you that we are going to vote against the entire amendment tabled by VOX. Forgive the similitude, but, speaking of waste, rather than an amendment to the whole, we consider it to be a piece of shit to the whole. [[Applauds]] This is the first debate on a law that our group considers to be absolutely priority, the waste law. Too bad what we are discussing here today is about the denial of evidence, the evidence that the current model of consumption and waste generation is not sustainable, the evidence that we are on a finite planet with finite resources. The extreme right always takes the opportunity to show its negationism and insistence on any environmental policy, nothing new in that sense. With this law we are coming late, and that is precisely why we cannot afford any more falsehoods or denials or statements of vague and empty intentions of content. I am not going to devote one more word to overjustify the unjustifiable, and I am going to focus on the important, to ensure that this law really allows us to move towards the goal of zero residue. And our diagnosis of the situation is simple, the Spanish state has the dubious honour of taking one of the worst positions in the European ranking in terms of reuse and recycling. According to the Rezero Foundation, 11% by weight of what is bought in the Spanish State goes directly to waste. Moreover, 26% of waste was not recycled in Spain. In addition, there are also no adequate tools in the area of taxation and waste prevention, among many others, to make it possible to move precisely towards the zero residue target. The challenge, therefore, is immense and must be accompanied by courageous and ambitious actions, so that they can be incorporated into this law, because only then will it be possible to start reversing the current situation. Our premises for meeting the challenge are basically three: the first, the best residue is precisely the one that is not generated; the second, the polluter pays, and the third, the legislative powers of their own. On the first premise, the best residue is the one that is not generated, prevention must be the basis in the waste hierarchy. We must bet on the original ecodesign and demand more environmentally efficient products that are recoverable and reusable, and only as a last resort that are recyclable. The recycling model of the 1990s does not seem to have yielded the expected results, and at the moment it is not so important to recycle, although the system obviously needs to be improved, but, above all, to learn to reduce and reuse, and that is a paradigm shift. Secondly, the principle that the polluter pays and therefore enforces the European principle of extended responsibility for the producer; we also want to make progress on measures of control, transparency and traceability. Thirdly, the legislative powers of the autonomous communities with competence for waste management must be tightened. We believe that the best policy is that of the territory itself, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. Many territories are doing very good work in this area, such as the Balearic Islands, of which the deployment of the Waste Law shows us how a courageous and demanding proposal in resource management can be completely viable and is a reference. For our part, Esquerra Republicana has recently assumed in the Catalan Executive the Conselleria d'Acció Climàtica, together with the Agency of Residus, with the clear objective of achieving the zero residue, and therefore the commitment of our group in this matter is undoubtedly. Our diagnosis of the current text is that of an unambitious law, with little concrete objectives and very generic measures. Without wishing to go into the details of the points set out in it, since I do not think that this is the specific objective of today's debate, we have identified key elements and, of course, for dialogue. We believe that there is a lack of concrete measures on waste prevention, which should be reflected in targets on reduction of certain products; we must improve traceability and achieve greater transparency in production processes; we believe that the law remains very short in areas such as the brake on planned obsolescence, since Article 18.8 only states that the Ministry will carry out specific studies to take measures to avoid obsolescence within two years; we must insist on the principle of people's health, which does not appear in the text, and, lastly, in the field of environmental taxation, for us the introduction of fiscal measures must be of a finalist nature, and the ultimate aim should be to finance and encourage those strategies that lead to an improvement in the management and the reversal of the current situation. We would not understand it any other way, and therefore the resources obtained should be used for actions relating to waste prevention and environmental education, for sampling. Precisely that will be one of the main challenges in the coming years and we must put resources in place to achieve the reduction targets. We hope that the most progressive government in history will create as much as we do the objective of moving towards a zero-waste society and will open up to dialogue and negotiation on all these proposals, which, as I am already advancing them, have as their objective a planet without tons of waste that end up flooding our seas and our landscapes and ultimately harming the health of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u23	Thank you, Mr. Eritja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u24	Good day, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, ladies and gentlemen of the no to conservation, ladies and gentlemen of the no to Spain, because they do not want to keep it, ladies and gentlemen of the no to life, of the no to everything, the waste crisis is a reality that cannot be denied. The landfills are saturated, creating huge problems in the municipalities. Plastics pollute the seas. If we go on like this, by 2050 there will be more garbage than fish in the sea. To you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, all this seems to matter nothing to you, but we are facing a very important crisis, which you would understand and suffer if you had to manage the problem from some municipality. This law should be an important step towards reducing the effects that waste generation is producing on the environment and health. We don't have a planet B or a spare body. And as you know or should know, this is also the transposition of European directives on circular economy and single-use plastics, an opportunity to adapt Spanish waste legislation and to ensure the cross-cutting of climate emergency policies with the scope of sustainable development objectives, improved consumer policies, the role of industry, the elimination of poverty and the fight for equality and health. This preliminary draft law assumes the principle of waste hierarchy incorporated in Law 22/2011, the priority of which is prevention, followed by preparation for reuse and recycling and, as a last option, the elimination of waste. While they are certainly not interested in understanding, this law must lay down the principles of the circular economy, contribute to the fight against climate change and protect the marine environment. We are one of the European countries that sends more waste to landfills, more than 12 million tonnes per year, with the consequent emission of greenhouse gases. We generate one hundred and thirty-two million tonnes of waste, most of it from industry, construction and households, and it is a waste of natural resources. Proper waste management is key to the planet, providing opportunities for the future for the economy and the creation and consolidation of jobs. It would be understandable for the right-wing party to propose any improvements it might consider to amend this bill, which would ultimately work for Spain, because this amendment is incomprehensible to the whole, with tanbanal and contradictory arguments such as tainting it with state and suprastate directism and excessive legislation, while at the same time considering that sensible philosophy should be that referred to as the best residue is not produced. What are they asking the government to prohibit from producing waste? In an attempt to spy on sins they speak of chiringuitos, but that the party led by a gentleman who has not worked in his whole life speaks of chiringuitos, when he has lived from public all his life, without sticking stick to the water, is, at the very least, calling the Spaniards fools. [[Applauds]] On the other hand, they consider that it undermines market freedom and entrepreneurship, while, on the other hand, they complain that Title II does not have serious control and enforcement mechanisms. This law, in contrast to the economic model of extracting, producing, wasting, betting on the circular economy, is so disturbing to them that it is based on the three principles of eliminating waste and pollution from its design, keeping products and materials in use and natural regeneration systems. It is not very clear in your amendment if you do not understand the system or if you do not like it, as your only positive assessment is in favour of incineration. You never fail the lobbies of the powerful. [[Applauds]] They do not like the selective collection to increase and facilitate recycling without increasing costs, but, although you look through the pockets of the big lobbies, the vast majority of Spaniards are concerned about the pollution of the seas and oceans by decaying plastics. A study by the Autonomous University of Barcelona warned that microplastics have invaded our body; that, in the food chain, animals have moved to the intestinal human barrier, and that, with their penetration into DNA, they can alter cellular functions and cause large-scale structural changes. In the Balearic Islands, thanks to an ambitious waste law, since March the sale of plastics of a single-use has been banned, and I swear to you that it has not ended in the world. But to the struggle not to contaminate with more plastics you seas call it unfortunate antiplastic crusade, without realizing, or yes, that you are compromising the future of children and grandchildren. There are many reasons for carrying out this project: it envisages actions against the waste of food, it shares responsibility for recycling between the consumer and the producer, it prohibits plastics in cosmetics and detergents it contemplates the planned obsolescence, which not only produces unnecessary waste, but it obliges families to buy regular appliances, reducing their capacity to save. However, we are also convinced that this draft law that we have on the table can be improved in terms of ambition and concreteness. That is why we invite you to recognize the gravity of the problem and, if you have any idea, to work in the process of processing the law, and do not waste any more time on us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come again to note the failure of Mrs Ribera's and the Sánchez Government's policies in waste management and environmental policy. Finally, the Waste Framework Directive and the Single Use Deplastics Directive, congratulations. It took half the legislature to do so and we are on our way to a new sanction from the Commission. By the way, the government will already explain to us how an information note from the ministry proposes the application of the European directives from 3 July without the corresponding national regulatory framework. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain is late for everything, and we do not say it, and it has been said in this House by different speakers from different political groups. The Government has been unable to lead the transition to a sustainable, green and competitive economy during these three years, in which we have had a lot of theory, a lot of pilgrim discourse, but few facts. It approved a circular economy strategy two years late, when the People's Party left it in 2018. He brought into this House three years late a climate change law, when the People's Party left a bill to enter this House and the Socialist Party prevented it from being debated. As I have already said, the transposition of the European directives has come and Spain does not allow itself to be ridiculed by receiving warnings and sanctions; the last ones we have seen this week. This Government is neither able to talk about industrial policy nor to talk about circular economy. [[Applauds]] The only thing he has done during these three years is to undermine the competitiveness of the industry, and I will give you one thing: the plastic tax he raises is going to bring about an increase in the prices of products, fundamentally harming consumers and families in their day-to-day lives. They brought a climate change law to this House that did not mention the circular economy and now they bring to the House a circular economy law, which is what should also be called this law, which does not define the circular economy. I hope they explain. The Government, during all this time, has not dialogued with anyone at all. The autonomous communities have not even been asked to pay attention to them, and the municipalities have not been asked at all, directly they have not been counted on. What about the opposition political groups that are not part of the groups that support the Government. Here is the example of the Climate Change Act: more than seven hundred amendments to which the Socialist Government listened deafly; of the People's Party, more than one hundred amendments, just a couple of partial amendments adopted. That is the dialogue, consensus and agreement of those who raise the flag of all that here in Spain right now. The Socialist Government is a specialist in creating two Spains, recently more than two Spains, and after what has happened this week I believe that no one good in our country has the slightest doubt. With this law you are going to balkanize the legislation on waste management, preventing harmonisation and preventing the Spanish from living where they live, and the different territories of Spain from going at the same speed in waste management. It is a law that lacks ambition, and I will set a small example: green public procurement. The Government's ambition for public administrations to be exemplary and a model to follow is scarce. How can we ask society, companies, individuals something that administrations themselves are not able to implement on their own? With this government, the socialist government, we have had the most expensive light bill in history; taxes are raised, then I will go into some detail; ghost plans of the electric car are proposed that then remain in the nothingness, and propose hydrological plans without talking to anyone, niregant or users or, of course, political parties. The last thing has been to load eighty-five reservoirs, to leave the water infrastructure to zero. In the area of water, we have a Government and a Minister of Ecological Transition, who today shines for his absence, whom we can define as the Government and the Minister of 'everyone who endures his candle'. This ministry does not work, and if I were here the vice president, I would tell her and I would also ask who she governs for. Who do you rule for? For your ideological book or for the Spaniards? This law comes late and wrong, but we, the People's Party, as a ruling party, cannot allow the political game to fail to arrive as soon as possible, because it is already too late. It is a necessary law, a law that needs the Spanish economy, a law that Spanish people need and a law that we all need to fulfil the commitments we have made to the European Union. Spain cannot stand a minute longer, and that is what motivates the position of the People's Party in today's vote on this law as a whole. In a constructive spirit we are going to face the debate in the Commission, although we have little hope that the Government will listen and little hope, however, that the Government will be able to accept the amendments of the main opposition party. We call for an increase in the number of appearances, because more than half of the sectors in our country that are going to be affected by Stalin are not going to be able to attend next week, more than half of the sectors. That is, once again, and I would like to repeat, what this Government is hearing. [[Applauds]] The starting situation in Spain is not good and there is much to be done. The objectives are not being met in waste prevention, in preparation for reuse and recycling or in the reduction of consumption of certain single-use deplastic products; one fact: half of household waste ends up in landfills. That is what happens in Spain while ruling the Socialist Party. These are objectives that are decisive and very important to our country. You know, I repeat, we're late and we're bad. Things aren't going well. The Council of State has already said that a detailed analysis of the objectives of this law is missing, but the most serious thing the Council of State says is that this law does not envisage the economic impact for autonomous communities, for municipalities and for individuals. You make a law that involves two taxes that will generate a tax pressure of more than €1.5 billion. Who do you think will pay those taxes? The citizens are going to pay them.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u27	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u28	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Some may be going to forgive them...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u29	No, you have to finish now, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u30	...for not having managed the pandemic and the crisis better; they will not forgive them that they have not listened to the main opposition party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are attending a debate which starts with an amendment to the entire draft law on contaminated waste and soil which - if I may say so - has no rigour, as other groups have repeated here. What you have presented, ladies and gentlemen, is not serious, because it does not contribute anything to the parliamentary debate, and I would ask you not to waste any more time. They have defended incineration without having the slightest knowledge of the matter, because they are left with an issue that is defiant, of basic chemistry. They defend incineration, but they do not say that any combustion process generates carbon dioxide and water vapor, that they are greenhouse gases against which to fight, and that is not what the Socialists and Socialists say, says the scientific community, says the whole society, and there we are going to be. We have nothing to discuss here and there is no debate, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, this time we are going to use it to talk about the law, a powerful and ambitious law, as you have already said here, a fundamental law, perhaps not very suggestive name, but which proposes to achieve the waste targets in order to accelerate the transition from our productive model to a circular economy model, fundamental to the fight against climate change. Why are we doing this? Because our country has too many contaminated landscapes - forests, rivers, seas -, an issue that has caused a brutal loss of biodiversity and therefore a danger to the health of ecosystems and to our own. How are we going to do it? We're going to reduce waste, we're going to recover and recycle in front of using and pulling the linear model. And why do we do it? To move towards a new model that promotes environmental protection and ensures sustainable and fair economic growth, quality jobs, responsible consumption of resources and greater social well-being. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what must be heard. Mr Sánchez, the PP when he ruled did not comply with the rules on water purification, for example, and loaded in the pocket of citizens their non-compliance and irresponsibility, and it is still costing us the money. [[Applauds]] Are you going to tell us about sanctions in Europe, if all the warnings the European Commission is giving us are because you have not done the duties? You didn't do your homework. This government today is lowering the VAT from the light; you raised it, but that doesn't count. You like to ask not to raise taxes, but it's not that you don't like taxes, it's that you like taxes when you pay social majority, you don't like to be paid taxes those you don't like to be paid taxes. [[Applauds]] That is why today we reduce VAT from light to 10%. You guys raised it to 21% and that doesn't count. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Government, the Government of Progress, that of the ERTE, that of the Vital Minimum Income, the one that raises the pensions, the one that achieves an agreement like has not been agreed in ten years on pensions, that of the education law, that of the Climate Change Law, that of the Concordia, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Concordia. What don't you like? What don't you like? [[Applauds]] Look at you, here we are the socialists and here we are ruling. If they do not comply with Europe, they govern against citizenship, and you have not complied, and by failing to do so, you are attacking the health and pockets of citizens, and that is what the People's Government has done every time it has ruled. Do not come to me and talk about the European Union's discouragements. [[Protests]] Socialists are not going to let this happen. That is why we believe that the revision of the 2011 waste legislation is so necessary to avoid sanctions such as those we are already assuming, ladies and gentlemen, due to the irresponsibility of the People's Party. This bill transposes two directives and also transforms waste management. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to recover the time we have lost, because here, Mr Sánchez, you are telling me everything you left behind in 2018, which means everything you didn't do, that is, you didn't do anything, and that's what happens. That is why Europe is now warning us, because they have done absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]] The first objective of this bill, which I believe we will share, ladies and gentlemen, is to minimise the negative effects of waste generation and management on human health and the environment. We cannot claim that 53.4% of our municipal waste goes to landfills. Approximately 80% of marine litter comes from the land. Measures in waste management policies will therefore have to be activated to address plastic pollution, which is the most frequent waste in the marine and coastal environment. The law also includes the obligation to provide tap water in public spaces and, free of charge, in the catering and hospitality sector, thereby reducing the consumption of single-use containers. It includes the obligation to separate new waste streams such as bioresidues, which know that they are the majority in terms of percentage of our waste, in order to obtain organic materials that can allow us to enrich our soil, soil from our territories, and also to help us reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the landfilling of these waste. The law sets out new targets for preparedness for reuse and recycling, up to 65% in 2035, which are very ambitious. Undoubtedly, the involvement of citizens, as has already been mentioned here, and the collaboration of the different territorial administrations, will be essential in order to achieve the objectives set for municipal waste. That's why it's included in the recovery plan. Environmental taxation has a key role to play, because it contributes to environmental protection and also has two benefits: fiscal and environmental. It is not acceptable that more than 50% of our waste should continue to go to the landfill today. It is better - it is true - the residue that does not occur, ladies and gentlemen, but for that we have to make decisions, for this to be a reality we have to make decisions, and this law, ladies and gentlemen, is the way. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Well. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u34	We move on to the agenda item on the request for an extension until 31/12/2021 of the deadline for the adoption of the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry on the illegal use of the forces, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior in order to promote the political interests of the PP and to set aside incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption, during the mandates of the People's Party Government. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u35	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief. I will not exhaust by far the time I have, because, in the end, what we are going to vote on here is whether more time is needed to further investigate the use by the People's Party of public instruments to promote its own interests, in this case to hide the corruption that might become of its actions in relation to Gürtel and others. We see clearly that we must support this initiative, this extension of time, because it seems very logical to argue that there is a case. The courts themselves are giving us surprises every day at this continuing round of charges to which they are subjecting it. If justice itself is advancing every day in need others accused because there is increasing evidence, it also seems logical that this Congress can continue to develop its activity to try to reach the bottom of the truth. If at first Mr. Villarejo's statements were considered to be eccentric statements of an eccentric being, it seems that the Prosecutor's Office does not share that logic, because it seems that in this case the Public Prosecutor's Office understands that behind Villarejo's assertions there is evidence to support them and there is clear evidence of the connection of the People's Party with certain State apparatuses in order to favor, in this case, the generation of a smokescreen to its reality of corruption splashed over the years. The truth of Villarejo's information is so well known that yesterday an illustrious IBEX 35 had the fortune to be accused of being the fruit of these declarations and revelations: Mr Galán, from Iberdrola, who yesterday had his imputation ration. And I'm done with a question. During these two days, in any debate that has taken place in this House - no matter what we are talking about - there has been an opportunity for all the honourable Members opposed to the pardon in Catalonia to take the matter out, either to say that on their behalf they did not or to link it in the most original way with the cause being raised. I am not going to be an exception, I am going to be all the lords of the People's Party, who during these days have been disappointed saying that those pardons should not be given, I would tell them to have some care and caution, because seeing the carousel of imputations, with Cospedal, with Jorge Fernández Díaz, perhaps - who knows - with M. Rajoy or perhaps - who knows - with Soraya Sáez de Santamaría, is not as far off on the day that you are yourself who, instead of collecting signatures against the pardon, have to collect signatures for the pardon, because, if not, you are going to meet more members of the People's Party within the walls of any prison rather than in an institution.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u36	Thank you, Mr. Matute. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u37	Thank you, Madam President. This Congress agreed in September last year to investigate the known as Operation Kitchen, the plot of illegal use of troops, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior in order to favor the political interests of the People's Party and to annul incriminating evidence for this party in this case of corruption, including the relationship with its president and the president of the government at the time, Mariano Rajoy. We believe that the Commission should have the opportunity to carry out its work and, to that end, it needs more time, because we all know that this is a complex plot, because the People's Party has built up an elaborate corrupt institutional architecture that serves its interests and also has multiple connections and derivatives in different areas: institutional, political, economic, etc. For example, yesterday we knew the accusation in the Villarejo case, in Kitchen, of the president of Iberdrola, José Ignacio Sánchez Galán. We are talking about one of those energy lords who do a billion-dollar business with an essential resource through the limited economies of the social majorities. Look, Iberdrola declared in 2020 a profit of 3611 million euros, apparently not always with correct and legal business practices. That's right, citizens are paying 50% more for the light this month than the table. [[Show a picture]] Look at this picture, it's from the year 2009. Galán, president of Iberdrola, efusively embraces Feijóo for winning the elections. Today we know that hug was worth millions. The People's Party has lacked time to illegally halt the BNG-led wind plan from the Galician government. Illegally. We do not say that, said the court, it was credited with a court ruling that forced the Galician Government to compensate the companies concerned. Why? Because this was a plan that put the wind resource at the service of our country's development; the successful tenderers were 33 small and medium-sized Galician companies linked to the primary sector - sea-industry, agro-industry - which also required net job creation in these areas of action. From that annulment, the awards returned to the normality of this scheme, returned to the three large ones. We know, therefore, what Iberdrola won. We still do not know the counterpart; I refer to the counterpart for Feijóo and for the People's Party, because it is clear that there was no counterpart for Galicia. At the moment, Iberdrola is carrying out a real offensive of predation of our resources and of wind expoliation in our country; among other things, two marine wind farms only 15 kilometres from the coast of Galicia that affect areas of high fishing productivity. The People's Party in the Galician Parliament opened the door in pairs to these projects. On the contrary, the fishing sector, the confreres' federations in Galicia and other entities in the sector have come out to reject it in a forceful way, because it would mean mortgage the way of life of thousands of people to guarantee even greater benefits to a private company and to a corrupt like the president of Iberdrola. It is clear that neither the sector nor the BNG are willing to consent to this new attack on our country with the cooperation of Feijóo and the People's Party. It is clear that there is still much to investigate in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u38	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Echenique Robba has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u39	Thank you very much, President. Operation Kitchen, brief summary. The PP is dedicated for years, through the Gürtel plot, to collecting bites in black money from certain entrepreneurs in exchange for granting them artificially swollen and paid public works contracts with the money of all Spaniards. [[Rumors]] With this illegal funding the PP basically does two things: to go doped to virtually all the elections of the last decades and to pay large B-surcharges to its leaders. A real criminal organization, as the judges have already said. We know all this today to a great extent because the treasurer of the PP, Mr Bárcenas, dedicated himself to very meticulously pointing out both the revenues in B of corrupt entrepreneurs and the excesses. But this is not the only compromising information that Mr Bárcenas apparently kept. He himself explained in court that he came to record Mariano Rajoy in his office by destroying the B account in a paper shredder when he discovered that the treasurer was collecting this data. The president of the fourth euro area economy destroying evidence of a theft of public money in a paper shredder. We could doubt the veracity of this mob movie scene and the existence of that recording if it weren't for Operation Kitchen. In 2013, when all this bursts and the papers of Barcenas are on the front pages, Operation Kitchen is launched. The aim of this illegal operation was nothing other than to take from Bárcenas and his family any material committed to destroying it and thus hindering police and judicial investigations. A corrupt plot to cover another corrupt plot and so on to infinity, because what seems obvious is that Operation Kitchen is not an operation of the Ministry of the Interior, it is an operation of the People's Party. All indications place Maria Dolores de Cospedal, secretary general of the PP, actively participating with Villarejo in the recruitment of the driver of Bárcenas, key piece in the operation. Villarejo himself stated in the Commission that he was communicating directly with Mariano Rajoy, president of the PP as well as president of the government. And this is when we get to the reason for the extension. Just when we were going to question Cospedal, that same morning, she was accused by the court, thus giving him the perfect alibi not to answer anything by risking self-incrimination. More affluent, it is quoted in court after the Commission's completion date, thus stealing Parliament's opportunity to study its judicial statement. Even assuming that this may be a coincidence and that there is no bad intention, this obliges the Congress of Deputies to extend this important Commission of Inquiry in order to be able to question Cospedal and Rajoy in conditions and thus to establish whether, as all seems to indicate, OperationKitchen was indeed an operation led from the dome of the People's Party. If this was an operation led by the People's Party, then it will be necessary to ask the current President of the People's Party, Mr Pablo Casado, whether or not he investigated and cleared the responsibilities of this whole cloaca when he assumed the leadership of the party; because if he did, he has much to tell this Parliament; and if he did not, even more. Thank you very much. [[Applauds.-A lady MP: Neurona, neuron]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u40	Thank you, Mr. Echenique. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u41	With all due respect, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. During the last plenary session, on 1 October 2020, we discussed in this House the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry of the one known as Operation Kitchen, the commission of inquiry in which the serious facts that we are aware of should be addressed from the political point of view, through the media related to the alleged illegal use of reserved funds and other means of the Ministry of the Interior and other State institutions by the former Government of the People's Party. This parliamentary group did not support the establishment of this Commission and do not know how we regret that time has ended up giving us reason. We do not support it from the moment - as we have denounced - when there is an ongoing judicial investigation. The logic - the most elementary - told us that this Committee of Political Inquiry was to be inoperative at any point from the moment when the investigated - in good order - would dry up their right not to declare, as it has been. This leads us to the fact that most of the appearances are at all points sterile, beyond the fatuous arguments of the People's Party to try to get rid of the actions - I have admitted that I have accessed the judicial authorities as an authentic film of terror -. This has also led us to have various political groups present here who share their hatred for Spain - as this parliamentary group also denounced in the constitution of the Commission, specifically addressed to its socialist spokesman, Adriana Lastra - have used this Commission to do what they always do: throw up their bile-skin on the State Security Forces and Bodies and above all what has to do with our great Spanish nation. [[Applauds]] We told them, yes, that despite not supporting this committee of inquiry, if the Socialist Party in an act of absolute institutional disloyalty dragged us to it, we could assure them that we would intervene and very and very actively with the technical and professional rigour that was possible by this parliamentary group. Well, it was. Such was the case, which went to questions from this parliamentary group when we met through Commissioner Villarejo who had crossed messages about the well-known Kitchen operation with whom was the President of the Government, Mariano Rajoy, and provided us with the number of mobiles he used for this purpose. As a result of this statement, Mr. Villarejo has been called upon by the National Court to declare that information which was revealed in the commission of inquiry in court. We told them that we were going to be very active, that we were going to do everything in our power to protect State institutions, and specifically the State Security Forces and Corpses, from bile and hatred that is appropriate to the parliamentary groups present here. And at this point I have to emphasize that I did not expect to have an essential accomplice in this work of protection and proper conduct of the sessions. At this point I have to highlight the impeccable performance of the Commission's President, so from here my sincere thanks, on behalf of our parliamentary group, for not all the sessions are being simple. We told them - we have shown - that what we were not going to allow under any concept, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, is a controlled blast and we got Mr Villarejo's appearance, despite his reluctance: his, his and also his Loque did not expect - I must confess - it is that after staying Commissioner Villarejo three years and four months in pre-trial detention - you said that everything this gentleman said is a lie, because it seems to be shaking this time of pre-trial detention - they released him only ten days after receiving the prison visit of this parliamentary group. [[pointing to the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[pointing to the seats of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-In Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú]] [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[Laughter]] And just as we have been able to get there, if the end of your journey is to leave Spain, we only hope that you will get us some of the information that you keep reserved. We are not going to allow that controlled blast and, therefore, today we are going to support this extension. Mr Sicilia, do you remember how I told you that the Gürtel Committee of Inquiry, held in the last parliamentary term, had been extended for years and that it was materially impossible for this Commission to be held exclusively in six months? My words are echoed today. We are going to support this extension because we are not going to allow a controlled blast, and you are keeping very much to mention two people whose appearance is essential in this Commission, as was Mr Villarejo, Mrs Sáenz de Santamaría and Mr Sanz Roldán, former director of the CNI, paths that this parliamentary group has requested and that we hope that you will support; because it turns out that your Government authorized last July that the former director of the CNI should be hired as personal adviser to, Sánchez Galán, president of Iberdrola, charged this week in Operation Kitchen.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u42	Mrs. Olona, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u43	So I assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have brought us in, but that it will be VOX who reaches the end. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u44	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Olona, in the use of my fatitude, I will tell you what sad speeches we have just heard, because you have already condemned the People's Party, despite the fact that there is an ongoing judicial investigation. And they do so in the framework of a parliamentary commission of inquiry in which all those who appear become presumed guilty, violating the right to the presumption of innocence enshrined in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, please be very clear, we are not going to be silent either with this Commission or with any other Commission. [[Applauds]] We are proud of our contribution to the well-being, coexistence and harmony of the Spaniards in these more than forty years of democracy, which could not be understood without the contribution of our party. That is why we are already telling you that we will never apologize for being the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard you talk a lot about Kitchen and nothing about its 'cookings' and I see Mr Simancas sitting down, who has to explain why Mr Marjalisa in the framework of Punica gave him 1.2 million euros as Secretary-General of the Madrid Socialists. Please explain this to us, Mr Simancas, because Kitchen is merely an attempt to silence the legitimate voice of the People's Party, a general cause, an inquisitorial trial against the PP, whose conclusions are written in the Commission's statement. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the faces of the Members of Parliament who make up our group. We are cargo-free people and we exercise our responsibility. You cannot say that many of the ministers who accompany Sánchez in his executive: Calvo, Montero, Planas, are the ministers of the ERE and Isofoton; Mr Ábalos is the minister of Delcy and the minister of Rubén Eladio; Minister Robles is the minister of the Veritas case, of the Laos papers and of the reserved funds; Minister Marlaska is the minister of illegalities, and the president of the government has not yet explained to us the relationship with the saunas of his father-in-law, Don Sabiniano Gómez, not yet. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are very fortunate, because you have been able to ask the former presidents and the former secretary-general of the People's Party, but no one appears, for example, on behalf of Bildu, to explain in a committee of inquiry why they did kidnapping, extortion, shooting at the neck and pimping, even a way of being in politics and yet come to the Commission and give us moral lessons. We have never heard in this House the converging or the postconverging explain why the Pujol took EUR 2 billion and come to the Commission to give us moral lessons. We have never heard in this House Mr Echenique explain why he defrauded Social Security, nor come to explain to us how to pay in B Mr Echenique! Nor have we heard Mr Mayor explain to us why the entire Dome of Podemos is being investigated for illegal financing in Madrid's 41st Court of Instruction. The whole dome! [[Applauds]] We would like you, who attach importance to the roles of Villarejo, to tell us why, in the agendas of Vilarejo, there are two notes in which Mr Monedero - the investigated Monedero - met twice with Villarejo to extract from him the money entered by Venezuela into accounts of an African country. They haven't given a single explanation why Mr. Rodriguez is still sitting in the seat if an oral trial has been opened for beating a police officer, and he's still sitting in a seat! Explain to us, too, why Mr. Iglesias wanted to sit twice with Mr.Villarejo. Let the Lords of Podemos explain this to us, because not only do we have and must give explanations! Ladies and gentlemen, we have not heard many things from the Socialists. We have not heard them explain the 27 murders of the LAGs, the 875 million pesetas that were taken from the reserved funds, the 1500 million returnees from Switzerland in 2001 from irregular financing; we have not heard them talk about the 650 million EREs of that good atmosphere that was and was breathed in Andalusia, and that came from the inhalation of psychotropic substances and from the assiduous visits to the homes of lenocinium at the cost of the Andalusian unemployed. We haven't heard any of your party's general secretaries explain this to us. Nor have we heard any explanations about Oscar Puente and the gifts he received at the City Hall of Valladolid, how the brother of the President of the Valencian Generalitat, Ximo Puig, is being supplied, why they have detained the treasurer for more than forty years from the Socialist Party of Valencia, nor, either, why Nuria Marín, president of the Barcelona Parliament, was denounced by a party partner, was arrested and, however, remains at the head of the institutions. Since you speak of Villarejo, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary to give credit to a part of what Villarejo says and suits you and not to give it to the part that points to your shame. If we believe in the part, you must accept to believe in the whole, and Villarejo acknowledged that you had hired your services to spy on the People's Party, the main opposition party, in the Gürtel cases and in the Brugal, Astapa and Malaya cases. And that is typical of dictatorships, it is typical of the Stasi and the banana democracies, and not of a consolidated democracy like the Spanish one. You haven't given a single explanation. Are we going to have to take the notes from the agendas that affect the socialist leaders who came to Estremera or those who went to Mr Sabiniano's saunas to talk, on behalf of Mr Sánchez, to Mr Villarejo?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u46	Mr. Santamaría, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u47	One second and I'm done, President. Are we going to have to get all that information out of us, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u48	Mr. Santamaría, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u49	The Kitchen Commission will be what you want it to be, but if you think we're going to tolerate talking only about that part of Villarejo that affects the People's Party, you're wrong. We will talk about the part that affects all political parties and, fundamentally, the Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Santamaría. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u51	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr. Santamaría, that someone who comes from the zero zone of corruption in this country, such as Valencia, comes here to the House to talk about what is corruption and what is not corruption, shows, Mr. Santamaría, your teacher, Mr. Santamaría,... [[rumors]] [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u53	...shows, Mr. Santamaría, the journey so long that they have to reach the new People's Party. Mr. Santamaría, you, for doing business in Valencia... [[Protests.- Mrs. Riolobos Regadera utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u54	Quiet, please. Mrs. Riolobos, I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u55	...do business even with the Pope's visit. Señor Santamaría, you, in Valencia, taught us that Gürtel in German is a leash; you, in Valencia, taught us new words like pitupee and mortida. And he comes here today to put corruption and corruption in the face of others. [[Applauds]] Mr. Santamaría, if anyone had any doubts as to why you have to follow the Kitchen plot investigation today, it has been taken away just by listening to you. Note, the new PP, the leadership of Pablo Casado, who travelled Spain by the hand of Ignacio Cosidó, the leadership of Pablo Casado, who included Jorge Fernández Díaz as the head of the Interior in his direction, the leadership of Pablo Casado, which is due to the votes given to him by María Dolores de Cospedal at a congress. And in exchange for what did he give you the votes? In exchange for what, Mr. Santamaría? We are now seeing him: In exchange for his silence and the protection of his party. [[Applauds]] That's what we're seeing now. That was the real negotiation at the congress, Mr. Santamaría, at your congress. [[Applauds]] Kitchen is explained very easily, there is a very simple mathematical formula: corruption by corruption, corruption squared, ladies and gentlemen. You to cover up your corruption set up a corrupt plot in the Ministry of the Interior, and what we're trying to clarify here is who set it up, who gave the order, who was the last link in the chain. Was it Mrs. Cospedal?, was it Mr. Fernández Díaz?, or was it Mr. Rajoy?, who of the three was it?, who gave the order to set up that corrupt plot to cover up your corruption, the corruption squared, ladies and gentlemen of the PP? That's what you guys did. Mrs. Olona, no. We want our country, that is why we want this Commission to continue, because we want to clear the name of the National Police and because we defend our institutions. Because there were those who used the National Police for partisan interests and not as a professional work tool to ensure the safety of Spanish and Spanish people. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, all these are reasons that I am giving you, and some more - for example, those which you have pointed out about the last appearances in court, the last quotations that have been made in court, by the way, the last summonses that have to do primarily with the work that has been done in this Commission - cause me to refuse to be told that this Commission is not being useful. It is very useful for our country and, above all, it is very useful for democracy in our country, in order to avoid and to put an end to the destruction you have done to our country's political institutions; that is why it serves. [[A Member delivers words that are not perceived]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, my party has more than a hundred and forty years of history. [[Protests]] The legacy, the inheritance...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u57	... that have left us our elders is simple, but it is powerful, they are principles and values. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] The legacy that you have left, your legacy, your legacy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, besieged, proved judicially!, is box B, which began to function in your party from its inception until now, so far! That is your legacy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz pronounces words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u58	Mr. Santamaría, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u59	Since you like to quote Mr Felipe González very much lately, I am going to dedicate to you a sentence from Mr Felipe González who said years ago. I'll try to update it in the names... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u61	It is updated: Rajoy and Married are the same thing, the same thing, that is, neither before nor now, the same thing. You are the same, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a party that applies the law of silence and uses state institutions for its benefit. [[protests]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Serrada. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. I remind you that you will only be able to vote from the seat indicated with your name on it, and I also remind you that those Members who have been authorised to cast their votes electronically cannot do so from your seat. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. We started with non-law propositions. A non-law proposal by the Plural Parliamentary Group, urging the Government to increase subsidies to special employment centres to compensate for the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage and to ensure its viability. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Plural Parliamentary Group, by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In ComúPodem-Galicia in common and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr Pagès i Massó]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 102 plus 245 telematics votes, 347; in favour, 65 plus 192 telematics votes, 257; against, 1 telematics vote; abstentions, 37 plus 52 telematics votes, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u64	It's approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress on the non-taxation of the families of media and low income. [[File number 162/000697]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u65	No bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on not raising taxes on middle and low-income families. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 101, plus 245 telematics votes, 346; in favour, 36, plus 117 telematics votes, 153; against, 65, plus 107 telematics votes, 172; abstentions, 21 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u66	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u67	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the Government's legislative initiatives to curb the threat of the ultra-right. The vote was taken on the terms resulting from the incorporation of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: 101, plus 245 telematics votes, 346; 65, plus 126 telematics votes, 191; 36, plus 117 telematics votes, 153; abstentions, 2 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u68	Accordingly, the motion as a result of urgent inquiry was approved. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the subject of electric power. [[File number 173/000086]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u69	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the rise of the electric bill. We shall vote separately by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101, plus 244 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 36, plus 109 telematics votes, 145; against, 65, plus 121 telematics votes, 186; abstentions, 14 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u70	Consequently, point 1 is rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101, plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 36, plus 111 telematics votes, 147; against, 65, plus 117 telematics votes, 182; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u71	Point 2 is therefore rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101, plus 243 telematics votes, 344; in favour, 36, plus 108 telematics votes, 144; against, 65, plus 120 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u72	Consequently, point 3 is rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101, plus 244 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 36, plus 109 telematics votes, 145; against, 65, plus 120 telematics votes, 185; abstentions, 15 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u73	Consequently, point 4 is rejected. - Motion for an urgent debate by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries. [[File number 173/000087]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u74	Motion for an urgent appeal by the VOX Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government to protect Spain's sovereignty vis-à-vis other countries. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 101, plus 244 telematics votes, 345; 54 telematics votes, against 65, plus 136 telematics votes, 201; abstentions, 36, plus 54 telematics votes, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u75	Consequently, the motion resulting from urgent inquiry is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u76	Discussions on all legislative initiatives. Amendment to the full refund of the draft law on contaminated waste and soil submitted by the VOX Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 244 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 54 telematics votes; against, 65 plus 135 telematics votes, 200; abstentions, 36 plus 55 telematics votes, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u77	The amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u78	The plenary of the House has requested the final deliberation and vote of this bill. We shall proceed to vote on that request. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] After the vote, the voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 242 telematics votes, 343; in favour, 101 plus 168 telematics votes, 269; against, 64 telematics votes; abstentions, 10 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u79	Consequently, the bill is being brought before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u80	Request for extension of commissions of inquiry. Request for extension until 31 December 2021 of the deadline for carrying out the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry concerning the illegal use of personnel, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior, with the aim of favoring the political interests of the PP and nullifying incriminating evidence for this party in cases of corruption, during the mandates of the People's Party Government. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: votes were cast, 101 plus 244 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 64 plus 189 telematics votes, 253; against, 37 plus 54 telematics votes, 91; abstentions, 1 telematics vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-06-24-CD210624.u81	Accordingly, the requested extension was approved. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was eleven o'clock in the morning.
