ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to include as the last item of the meeting on Thursday the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources of the European Union and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u2	We begin with the debate on the proposal for a law, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is integral to equal treatment and non-discrimination. Mrs Carrillo de los Reyes has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to use my first words before I begin my speech to pay a sincere tribute to an incombustible politician of the Socialist Party who came to this rostrum as a member of the constituent courts to defend the legality and equality of the Roma people. My recognition and the recognition of all the figure of John of God Ramirez Heredia. [[Applauds]] Today, forty-three years later, I have the immense honour to present, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, this proposal for a law on equal treatment and non-discrimination, a law that strengthens and improves our legal order in the fight for the rights and dignity of people, especially those who are part of the social groups historically discriminated against in our country. Today we are here, ladies and gentlemen, to speak of discrimination. I am convinced that some of you, especially some of you, have suffered some kind of discrimination throughout your life. Most will have seen cases with their own eyes or will be aware of these facts by the testimony of someone close to them. I am also sure that some will say that they have never suffered it, even people will deny it, claiming that discrimination does not exist. I could tell you my own experiences, but I won't. However, let me use this rostrum to give voice to so many minorities and social groups that for years and years have been silenced. March 11, 2004, Laila, the daughter of Moroccan immigrants, quotes: 'My father took me to school as every day. I, out of sight, sat on the desk waiting for the class to begin. One of my friends came up and said to me, "Your father has planted the bomb. Then he stepped on my backpack and went back to his place. I started crying, no one wanted to comfort me. When I told my teacher what happened, they all denied it.' In 2009, Benalmádena, a group of people, including several people with intellectual disabilities, were expelled from a bar. The head of the establishment told them that it did not seem convenient for them to be in their premises, as their presence could negatively affect the image of their business. Year 2017, a young woman opts for a nursing place for replacement in a hospital in Madrid. During the internship period, the coordinator asks him where he is, insists on knowing if he was really born in Seville, finally asks him if he is a gypsy. In replying that yes, he began to ask for a series of documents that he had not previously required, including a criminal record certificate. Ladies and gentlemen, the young gypsy girl was never hired. Year 2018, Vicente seeks a flat to live with his partner, and I quote: Iñaki and I had found a flat, it was all perfect, we formed the next day, everything was rolled up until the owner discovered that we were a gay couple. Alleging that older people who didn't understand were living in the block, we were denied rent. Ladies and gentlemen, I could take up my whole speech by telling stories like these, we could all go up to this rostrum to put a voice to so many experiences, and we would never finish this plenary. Discrimination, unfortunately, is seen, felt, felt and suffered. If at times all these injustices seem invisible, it is not because they have disappeared, it is because the victims do not dare to denounce them. The latest report on hate crimes issued in Spain states that 82% of the victims of hate crimes do not report. To all these people, to those who raise their voice and to those who do not dare to raise it yet, I want to say one thing: You are not alone, you are not alone, you have never been and you will never be. [[Applauds]] This is the Congress of Deputies, it is your home, and laws like this, which have persecuted and persecuted discrimination, are your refuge. This new law that we present today has the vocation of being the common minimum norm of Spanish anti-discrimination law, reinforcing the guarantee of the fundamental rights contained in our Constitution, especially in its article 14. It is a law that responds to the demands of fulfilling our international commitments to the European Union, a law that is moving towards a more just and equal society. However, despite all this, some have not yet learned that the engine of any truly advanced society lies in the richness of its diversity and plurality, tributes that for many of us and ourselves are a real pride, pride being part of an open land, where we live together men and women, born Spanish or adopted Spanish, international migrants and migrants in our own land; a country where Christians, Jews, Muslims, agnostics and atheists, Gypsies and paies, young and old, white and black; an inclusive society for people with disabilities; a country that respects all forms of being and love. And it is that all these people, ladies and gentlemen, are our friends, are our friends, our neighbours, our family, we are ourselves and ourselves. [[Applauds]] But if this law is necessary, it is because there are still those who use our differences as a flag of hatred, who have such a small idea of Spain that they only belong to them, who feed the discourse of hatred, which deprives them of their dignity to whom they are different, thus mutilating their opportunities for equality. Ladies and gentlemen, differences are not a problem, the problem is the use of those who also make them, among other things, border markers between human beings. It is true that we live in very difficult times; crises have always been, whether economic, social or health. These are times when intolerants use social minorities as a scapegoat to beat them and take responsibility for all the evils they suffer in our world. And in this year of pandemic we have had numerous examples of how that discourse of hatred drops so deeply that it corrodes the insides of our societies and rots them. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, a few weeks ago my colleague Luc André came up to this rostrum to remind you of something so obvious and basic that I should embarrass you every day after listening to your words. He said, 'Immigrants are people with the same dignity as each of us.' Today, looking into their eyes, I tell them that Roma women too. [[Applauds]] And I would like to evoke the words of the spokesman of my party and comrade, Adriana Lastra, that day, in those moments when she suffered an attack on the Gypsy people by her lordships, when she said: 'Opre Romnia', which in the language of the Gypsies and Gypsies who speak fourteen million people in the world means: Go ahead, comrade; go ahead, women; go ahead, Roma women. [[Applauds]] And I say, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in my name, on behalf of the Gypsy people and of each of the people who bear the scars of the hard beatings that are received through those hate speeches, which you also promote, that we will never again bend our heads, ever again. [[Applauds]] That is why this law is so necessary; an integral law, a guaranteed and general law, which will be a powerful instrument for combating discrimination, regardless of its motivation or origin, and which, in turn, includes the creation of an equal treatment and non-discrimination commissioner, a figure with its own independent legal personality, which will be supported by public institutions to carry it out; it also establishes the implementation of a State strategy to combat discrimination involving all institutional levels; it promotes regulatory changes that will enable people, especially social movements, to take legal action against offenders, and it includes a series of administrative sanctions for offenders. In short, ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete and comprehensive text which responds to a very harsh and indisputable reality. And if we are here today, once again, presenting this proposal of law is thanks to a person who fought tirelessly to make it come true. Today we are here thanks to my colleague Pedro Zerolo, who always defended that the path of equality begins with words. [[applause]] That's why yours is more effective than ever: 'Discrimination cannot go free'. Pedro Zerolo has a gap in the hearts of all of us. It has a square in Madrid, where every year one of the most important and most beautiful festivals is celebrated, which is the Pride. And I ask you to have this law from now on, which will be the umbrella under which we all safeguard ourselves. In this way, he will never be gone, because his mark will remain, his legacy will remain, his struggle will remain: a better society, where we all have. It's for you, Pedro! Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Carrillo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the VOX Parliamentary Group. I give the floor, on behalf of that group, to Mrs Toscano de Balbín. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u5	With the venom. Gentlemen of the PSOE, I have to give you a news that will surprise you: equality is already regulated in our legal system. [[Applauds]] That is why this bill is absolutely unnecessary. Sometimes I get the feeling that you think that before you guys got here all this was field. For it was not a field, there was already article 14 of the Constitution, which says that all Spaniards are equal before the law. [[Applauds]] The point is that this bill is not about equality. You always adorn with very beautiful words your totalitarian purposes and, like the French revolutionaries used the motto 'Freedom, equality and fraternity to cut heads, you do the same, but not to cut heads, but to cut off freedoms. That is the real purpose of this law. [[Applauds]] With this proposed law, in theory, no one will be able to suffer discrimination on the grounds of race, sexual orientation, etc. - thank you, that already existed - but they add new elements, such as, for example, that cannot be discriminated against for socio-economic reasons. I will set an example, so that all Spaniards understand what this law is about. Diego is an average Spaniard who has a bar, is married, has a daughter and has a second home, which he rents to get a little more money. Well, before the law, Diego can rent his apartment to whom he deems it convenient, Diego's daughter plays on the athletics team and when Diego runs out of waiter, because the one he has returns to his country due to the economic crisis caused by this government, he hires another without problem. What happens after this law? After this law one of those who wanted to rent the house to Diego and who in the end could not because he has rented it to another person, as he does not have a good economic situation and is therefore unwilling to pay what was required and therefore has not rented it, denounces him for discrimination for socio-economic reasons. And this law has another perversion, and it is that it reverses the burden of proof, so that it is not the one who accuses that he has to prove that there has been a punishable or'sanctionable fact; no, it is the accused, when his presumption of innocence is being violated, who has to prove that he has not discriminated, with which Diego will have to pay a fine, which can reach up to five hundred thousand euros. On the other hand, Diego's daughter tells him that at school she is competing on the team of girls with a boy, because, as a child, because of this law they have had to accept, and that's why the boy has won the competitions. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u6	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u7	And a waitress Diego didn't hire on grounds of discrimination on the grounds of sex, and now Diego is praying that he won't report her criminally on grounds of incitement to hatred against women. [[Applauds]] This is what will happen to many Spaniards. This proposal for a law is a very serious intrusion of political power into the lives of the Spaniards. And before they start calling us fascists, I want to make it clear that VOX is the only party in this Chamber that is in favour of equality before the law of all Spaniards and against discrimination, the only one. [[Applauds]] Yes to equal rights, responsibilities, opportunities, but never at the expense of our freedom. [[Applauds]] You with this bill want to punish the dissident, that's what you want. They want to indoctrinate our children, the officials, the judges, everyone, because they want to shield their collectives, the collectives you say are oppressed - in fact, they are oppressed by you - and so they can continue to keep their women's bars, LGTB, immigrants, etc. And, of course, that there are not many chiringuitos, always implicit or explicit in all his proposals, because, as his ineffable minister Carmen Calvo says, public money is nobody's. So courses and workshops will be given by associations created for this purpose, and, of course, by the great chiringuito, which is the commissioner for equal treatment and non-discrimination. You're the best, and you're spending the money of the Spaniards on crap, too. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was already equality in Spain before you arrived. You guys are done with that equality. So please do not sell us equality, when they have enacted a law against gender-based violence that discriminates and penalizes men for being equal. They don't sell us equality, when they favor the LGTB collective for being LGTB. They don't sell us equality, when because of feminism women in Spain have privileges, subsidies and payoffs for being women. [[Applauds]] They don't sell us equality with the disabled, when they justify aborting them for being disabled. [[Applauds]] They do not sell us equality, when in this house they have freedom of expression but sign a manifesto to punish and fine those we do not think like you. They do not sell us equality, when immigrants, who are 12% in Spain, receive 50% of the aid against poverty. They do not sell us equality, when because they are trans they have a reserved place in an opposition to an administration. They don't sell us equality. That word is too big for them. [[Applauds]] There is good news in the midst of this misconception, and it is that, by applying the letter of the law, positive discrimination will not be possible. According to this law, there will be sanctions if they are discriminated against on grounds of age or sexual orientation. The truth is that it would be poetic justice if your chiringuits and privileges by the law that you yourselves have done were to be exhausted. The Government has an obligation to ensure justice, equality before the law and freedom for all, without positive or negative discrimination. Any measure that deviates from these purposes, such as this bill, only pursues partisan interests to benefit a few. Ladies and gentlemen, in Spain, because of their laws of false equality, the feminism and hatred they generate, many mothers see how they accuse their innocent son of being a rapist. Today I'm that mother. That child is my son. Ladies and gentlemen, he is ten years old, he is a good and pure child and all he has in his head is the school, the duties, drawing, the Pokémon, and he has to suffer as they call him a rapist for being male and the son of a VOX deputy. [[Applauds]] Don't insult us by talking about equality and dignity, because this hatred has been created by you. [[Applauds]] As we can see, you do not protect the weak. You use equality as a weapon of confrontation and to cut freedoms. The Spaniards, ladies and gentlemen, want to live in peace, they want to educate their children according to their beliefs, the Spaniards want to work, they want health, they want to be able to be with their sick relatives, they want to charge the ERTE, they want this pandemic to end, they want the economic crisis to end, not laws as unacceptable as this. What the Spanish want is freedom. What VOX wants is freedom to work, to sell, to buy, to hire, to rent, to talk and to think. There will be no real equality until they stop victimizing and privileging people and until they stop generating hatred. It is you, false adalides of equality, who really discriminate. [[Applauds]] They respect article 14 of the Constitution, nothing more and nothing less. We have the right to make our own decisions without being treated like foster children. They respect our independence and our freedom, and I ask you, once and for all, to take your dirty hands out of our lives. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u8	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Carrillo de los Reyes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I have one question: Is there still any parliamentary group that hesitates to support this bill? After listening to all this, are there still any doubts, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applauds]] I want to say that I must admit that I am not surprised at the position against the Equality Act, which promotes, among other things, human rights; I am not surprised because they had already warned me. 'I am a supporter of discrimination', are literal statements by Santiago Abascal. The hemerotheque is full of phrases that are the shame of any Democrat. [[Applauds]] Another - I quote - 'Why do gays celebrate so much Valentine's Day if theirs is not love, theirs is vice?', Juan Pflüger, VOX National Press Officer. 'The safest relationship between a man and a woman will only be through prostitution', Francisco Serrano, who was the leader of VOX in Andalusia after knowing the sentence of La Manada. By the way, that was the judge who called the associations of women terrorists, feminazis, chiringuitos. Looks like the chiringuito had it. [[Applauds]] 'It's a tiparraca - in reference to Minister Dolores Delgado -, and of a whore - excuse the word - can only be expected whores', Juan José Liarte, spokesman of VOX of Murcia. [[Rumors]] 'Feminists - I will be brief -, dais asco', Carla Toscano, deputy spokesman for the Equality Commission. [[Applauds]] Or his deputy, Rocío de Meer, calling multicultural terns to neighborhoods where mostly Gypsies and immigrants live, ultimately working-class neighborhoods. And, unfortunately, it was not necessary to go too far to search in the hemerotheque, as yesterday Mariano Calabuig, deputy of VOX in the Madrid Assembly, referred to our companion Carla Antonelli as the representative of the PSOE. Thank you, comrade, for the courage you show every day by planting in front of the far right. [[Applauds]] You are filled with hatred, ladies and gentlemen, you feed on it, you consume it and you spread it, but you should ask yourself what leads you to hate so much. Well, I'll tell you, fear. You are afraid, afraid of losing your privileges, or what is the same, you are afraid that others will exercise our right to freedom to be different, ladies and gentlemen; to be different. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] What you call progressive dictatorship is nothing more or less than to guarantee what all the citizens of this country want: to be equal and free, and you don't want it, you can't stand it; you can't stand it. They're afraid of those who pray to another god other than their own, they're afraid of those who have a different skin tone, they're afraid of brave people who don't hide their identity or their sexual orientation, they're afraid of women without fear, that's why we say, enough! That's enough! [[Applauds]] What you want is to return us to the Franco cabinet again. If your speech were not so dangerous I would tell you that all you give is pity, but every time you utter your speech of hatred, scars grow. Some are visible, because they translate into physical violence, others invisible, woven with insults, contempt and slander; all of them attacks on the dignity of those who dare to be different. And you forget one very important aspect: no one is free to be discriminated against - no one - nor yourself. Paul Iglesias Posse said that socialists do not die, socialists sow. [[Applauds]] While some sow hatred on herd land, the socialists sow equality to build a Spain that feels proud of its greatness, its diversity and its plurality. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group, put to the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Carrillo. I give the floor to Mrs. Toscano de Balbín. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the floor.-Pause.-A lady from the cleaning service is going to disinfect the speaker's rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u11	Your Honor, I find it very wrong that you lie here, in this rostrum, because telling a half-truth is lying. What Santiago Abascal said was that he was in favour of discrimination to choose who was going into the dirt. You're a liar. [[Applauds.-Protests]] I want to tell you as a Member of Parliament, but also as a person, that I find miserable the slanders that cast against VOX, that raise false testimonies against good, honest and decent people, as my companions are; it seems miserable to me. [[Applauds]] Someday you will have to account for all the hatred you have created against innocent people, because this hatred you believe causes us to be demonized, criminalized, insulted and assaulted with stones, nuts, etc. [[Applauds]] In VOX we are not against equality. I repeat, we are the only party that defends equality before the law. We care so much about the equality that we are against any law that seeks to privilege or discriminate, and frankly not understanding - and I think that four million Spaniards do not understand it either - why a person must be treated differently according to his or her religion, race or sex. We don't understand. We do believe in equality. [[Applauds]] We believe that all people, whether heterosexual, homosexual, atheist, Christian or Muslim, are equal; it is you who consider them inferior, that is why you give them a different treatment, that is why you need to take care of them as children, because you consider them inferior. [[Applauds]] For VOX we're all the same. It's over. Clearly, there are two sides here. One, which supports injustice, discrimination with the excuse of equality, which supports privileges, which supports gender ideology, which supports the globalist agenda and totalitarianism. On the other hand, we support justice, equality and freedom. I believe that today it has become very clear to all Spaniards that to defend equality and freedom only VOX remains. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Toscano. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u13	Thank you, President. If you'll excuse me for a moment... [[The honourable Member takes out his mobile phone, selects and activates a song by Pablo Hasel.-Applause.-Rumores]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u14	Mr. Botran, thank you so much for wanting to share... [[Rumors.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u15	Wait a minute. [[Continue playing the song of Pablo Hasel.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u16	Mr Botran, please, I ask you to continue your intervention. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u17	I think it was welcome that today we are talking about a law that deals with fundamental rights, that in the Spanish state today a singer enters the prison, as in the saddest of dictatorships, for crimes of opinion, and they do not hide behind the judges. There are responsibilities in this House where the crime of insulting the Crown or the crime of exalting terrorism, which has been instrumentalized for ideological persecution, still exists. It is true that since ETA left the activity, sentences for the rise of terrorism have been increased; precisely when there is no activity of ETA, they are fired; when there are no sentences for membership of the armed organization, persecution is triggered by what they call the rise of terrorism. [[Protests]] This is also discrimination and this is also ideological discrimination. [[Applauds]] Just a week ago someone who broadcast a video shooting at members of the government had their cause filed, something that seems much more aggressive to me, much more direct than a song lyrics or tweets, and today - I remember - a singer enters prison. This is embarrassing. I'll make three comments about the law that brings us here. Of course, it is important to combat discrimination that is not currently covered by the Criminal Code. It is necessary to act not only on speech, because it may seem that the law only acts on discriminatory discourse, but that these discourses then have consequences on aggressions. The discourse of discrimination against women has consequences for sexist aggressions; the discourse of racist discrimination has consequences for racist aggressions that are increasing, as all NGOs that analyse hate crimes, and so on, with all the collectives that must be protected by any anti-discrimination law. It is also the case of the homeless, aporophobia is also a serious hate crime that has its consequences. [[Applauds]] Without going any further, last week in Barcelona some neo-Nazis tried to burn a person living on the street alive. That of course has to be attacked from the root. A couple more comments. In the Catalan law that was passed in this legislature in Parliament, which was certainly a law promoted mostly by women - the majority of the rapporteur group were women - there was a very intensive and deep work for the definitions of discrimination, and that is very important as soon as the presentation is opened for the following reason: that these hate crimes do not turn, as often happens when the victims become executioners and executioners as victims. That is why the work of definitions is so important. [[Applauds]] It only discriminates who has the power to discriminate. You can't consider it discriminating a rapper to a king. In whose head it is possible that the threatened is the king and not the rapper! The hate crime has also been used to persecute those who criticize powerful people, and that cannot be done under a law, which is to protect historically oppressed and vulnerable groups. And a third and final comment: this law must also have consequences for hate speech in this House, and we have seen it again a few minutes ago, reconnecting immigration with a supposed favouritism at the time of receiving social benefits. This hate speech is heard again when migration is related to crime or sexual assault. This is a shame, and a law like this should also have consequences for hate speech in this very House. [[Applauds]] Today the prosecution has announced that it will investigate VOX for crimes of Islamophobia, for his Islamophobic speech. It's nothing different than what your lordships used to spit from this rostrum. Therefore, let us be attentive and attentive, this law must also have consequences in the hate speech given in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u18	Thank you, Mr. Botran. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Get out of the way. First of all, since we are talking about equal treatment and non-discrimination, go from here our embrace of Pablo Hasel and our denunciation of this unjust imprisonment committed by this State. We will still have to listen to this government say that there is full democratic normality in Spain! Look, ladies and gentlemen, in this state fascists and neo-Nazis are allowed to exalt Nazism and Francoism with impunity, while jailing a rapist for singing truths like the Bourbons are thieves. Basques and Basques also know well what Spanish injustice is. That's why, Pablo, Euskaldunok zurekin gaude. Eutsi. Cheer up. Today the PSOE brings to this Chamber a proposal for a law for equal treatment and non-discrimination. To begin with, I will tell you that this law is very enlightening. First of all, in their proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, assume that in this State, there is discrimination on grounds of birth, racial origin, sex, religion, conviction or opinion, age, disability, sexual orientation or identity, gender expression, disease and socio-economic and social situation in Spain, that is, if you are not white, man, Catholic, heterosexual, healthy, with money and Spanish, very Spanish, in Spain you are discriminated against. It is indeed very enlightening. We are pleased, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, that they finally accept what many of us have been denouncing for decades. Now you will continue to say that Spain is a full democracy, even if you know that you repeat a lie. Secondly, they will need more, much more than a law to put an end to discrimination, because, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, judges, prosecutors, the police, the media or politicians actually treat differently and discriminate by race, gender, sexual orientation, economic status or opinion. Maybe, just maybe, this has something to do with the 'boned and well bound' that you never dared to untie. Perhaps it is time to put an end to all this, because if not for that discrimination, that hatred of the different present in all the pillars of the State - and increasingly in the streets and institutions too - will take rights and freedoms that it took decades to conquer. Let's hope they're brave and face him. We wonder, wouldn't it be better to make specific laws, with specific measures to end the different discriminations and the situations that produce them? How can a single law put an end to the whole fabric of discrimination in so many areas? How can a law address discrimination against the migrant population, LGBTI people, trans people or the disabled alike? We are faced with a proposal for a law that covers a great deal and that is presented with great haste, without having agreed with the agents to whom it is addressed or with the social movements that have been fighting for the rights of the collectives who suffer different discriminations for years. This is not our way of working. Instead of putting at the centre the real needs of the most vulnerable people, to whom this law is addressed, the partisan interests of the PSOE are being put at the centre, and our training is not willing to cooperate in this. If we look at this proposal from the perspective of migration policies and multiculturalism, we see how this proposal contains serious contradictions with the current legislation on foreigners and the reality of the non-rights and discrimination experienced by people in an irregular administrative situation. In short, it does not question the structural racism that goes through the Spanish State's migration policies, as we observe every day on the southern border, in the Canary Islands, on any of our streets in the workplace, in access to housing or in each and every foreign office. Today, the greatest expression of racism is institutional, a structural racism that goes through each and every one of the Spanish State's migration policies. The best known as the Aliens Act is the backbone of these state migration policies. [[Applauds]] A system of legal apartheid that affects tens and thousands of people from southern Euskal Herria and many more throughout the state. With regard to the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination at work, the situation of migrant women in care and the domestic sector should also be taken into account. They are still today employed on behalf of others who, among other rights, are denied unemployment benefit. We also echo the reading of the Khetane Platform, representing the Gypsy people. We see the need to collect the claims, on the one hand, of anti-Gypsyism, and which are mentioned, on the other, in the article, so that it has greater legal relevance and greater applicability. In conclusion, I would like to say that Euskal Herria Bildu seems to us to have competence and sovereignty in order to have his own policies of migration and multiculturalism, with which we can guarantee human rights. In this way, we demand a Basque way for intercultural coexistence, equal rights and social inclusion of all people, taking into account the linguistic, cultural and political specificity of our people, and ensuring full citizenship for all people residing in our territory. Today we will abstain to allow this law to take shape, but we have already warned you that we demand many changes in its handling, and we also demand you, the parties of the Government, to show a little more responsibility and to end this whole internal struggle, which weakly favors the thousands of people who are waiting for laws that guarantee their rights. Stop playing with such serious things. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pozueta. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u21	Thank you, Madam President. I am not going to waste a minute with the diatribes of the VOX representative, but when he came out to this rostrum and shouted that of: look at what the French revolutionaries shouted of freedom, equality and fraternity, to then cut off heads, gives me the feeling that you felt much more comfortable with the absolutism of King Louis XVI. Those did not cut off heads, obviously; they did other things. In any case, it beats them more. The definition given by the dictionary of 'vodevil' is something like theatrical plot comedy based on the plot. It gives me the feeling that with this topic has appeared once again, I don't know if to call it war, but the plot that the Socialist Party and Podemos have been staging lately. Although this more seems like a Shakespearean work with its jealousy, betrayals, usurpations, appearances, deceptions, anxieties for stabbing power, fictitious harmonies, etc., but everything much less serious. You will know your government program and who is responsible for what, but from a perspective of curious spectator and full of perplexity, even stunning, this show of protagonists that we are seeing and suffering does not seem serious. As far as I know, the Ministry of Equality belongs to Podemos, but the motherhood of the creature is of the Socialist Party, and you are not willing to give it to anyone for adoption. Look, equality in any field seems to us to be a much more serious thing to be playing to see who's on it, and now I'm presenting it, and now I'm getting angry. It is you government, do things more seriously, please. Why, therefore, this proposal for a law? You are in the government, you could have brought a bill. No one can prevent them from doing so, it is their competence, but I believe that the answer we have in the previous chapter, where I have quoted the disagreements that you have, although I will not be entangled in anything recognizable and explicit. Let's go to what the text itself is. This is the fourth time we have dealt with this issue. Well, three plus one that could have been dealt with. It has a history of the intention to make this text the common minimum standard that contains the fundamental definitions of Spanish anti-discrimination law by establishing its basic guarantees, aimed at the real and effective protection of victims, materializing the complete transposition of the directives that we already know and that have already been cited, as well as the partial transposition carried out by Law 62/2003, as reflected in the preamble to the text. This bill has its history, because I have already said that we have several legislatures in these homes, we know its genesis and even its processing and negotiation, there in 2008, if I am not mistaken, with Leire Pajín as minister and with Ramón Jáuregui, with whom we have been negotiating. Then the Zapatero legislature was truncated, you brought it back in 2013 and we re-discussed in 2018, when it reached the presentation process. But the fate is very much yours and it has been altered again with an end to the legislative cycle, and here it is again. It seems to be a motion for a law condemned to wander through this House. We even had another proposal for a law of the Group We may seem to be competing to give even more rights, and that also came to the table. In any case, let's start with this text. We understand and share the criteria set out in this proposal for a law: it promotes the cross-cutting application of equal treatment; it aims to create an effective instrument against any discrimination that any person may suffer, and which addresses all the areas from which it can produce, welcoming the most modern conception of human rights, and establishing a series of procedures whose effectiveness allows for the protection and reparation of the whole of this right. Nothing to object to. Furthermore, we have to say that the text that you have brought, fortunately, is not the original text, but it is the text that, after going through the presentation in the previous legislature, has been modified. And with modifications, moreover, that seem to us positive, because some shortcomings already had of themselves. For example, article 2.4 partially admitting an amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party, article 7, paragraph 4, which includes military establishments, because it seemed to us flagrant that the regime of the Army and the members of the Armed Forces were exempt from what this law proposes. I'd miss more! I think they've done well to include it, because if there's any place where there's historically been discrimination, it's in the Spanish Army. In addition to a number of other amendments - I am not going to make a list of them - such as, for example, the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination in the Administration of Justice, which was also raised by our group in one of the amendments made, etc. Therefore, there are important changes that already allow us to work from something that is already there. But my last minute I also want to devote it to the discrepancies that we have with this text, because we show them then, we amend them and we continue to show them because they continue to appear in the text. And what's the main one? They have an entire chapter devoted to sanctions and infringements and I believe that, from a legal perspective - I do not know whether legislation - it is not up to them, it is not up to this law to be the sanctioner and the one marking the infringements. This is a law of rights, it is otherwise; I think it does not belong to it. Because you have an entire title dedicated to infringements and sanctions and, as I say - let me disagree - the establishment of a regime of infringements and sanctions on equal treatment and non-discrimination in this Act, in Title 4, is controversial. The creation of a system of administrative infringements in this area can be controversial in itself as little, by adding an administrative power over certain actions of citizens, whose social sanction should perhaps be imposed in the courts of justice and not in public administrations. The text of the proposal also sets out some slight, serious, very serious types, etc., and it is an issue I hope, if it is dealt with, that we can discuss and amend. We're going to ask for the entire suppression of it.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u22	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u23	Finished. I just want to say that the state strategy, Article 31, does not convince us. I believe that it is the competence of the Autonomous Communities and that it is the Autonomous Communities that have to develop this matter. Finally, I have to say that we will vote in favour of the inclusion - before we did so too - and we hope that this law will be worth something, and not just to fill with beautiful words in this House. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u25	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I come to this rostrum really excited by the initiative we are discussing today, because it has a special significance for me. In this rule I started working professionally in 2009 in a group of experts where we were specialized in the field of anti-discrimination law and NGOs, with Pedro Zerolo. A rule which I believe responds to the provisions of Article 14 and Article 9.2 of our Constitution, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Directive 2000/78 in the field of employment, but, above all, what it does is to properly transpose Directive 2000/43, to expand and improve it, because what it does is to open up the assumptions of discrimination not only to the racial or ethnic part, but to give integrality. Because, in my opinion, in the field of anti-discrimination law the perspective of equality must be taken from an integral point of view. Our society is not established in compartments or groups, but equality must be defended in an integral way in order to create cohesion. When we talk about equality and human rights, I would also like to highlight something you already know today, because on some other occasions I have already taken up this rostrum: political size, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, I want to say that we must have a political dimension for our members of the Government because it seems to me totally regrettable that they are fighting for the medal to defend the law of equal treatment, when what they should really do is agree and be all one in a regulatory framework that is absolutely necessary. [[applause]] All political forces, without exception, should be united in this. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, although we have our Article 14 of the Constitution, I am very sorry to tell you that there are people who are going to look for a job and are rejected; who want to rent or buy a home and are rejected; who want to access an establishment or use a good or service and are rejected. And the reason for rejection is because they are gypsies, because they are migrants, because they are disabled people, because they are women, because they are LGBT or because they are poor people. This is the reality of the daily discrimination that is very prevalent in our country. [[Applauds]] Let us stop being hypocritical and look elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the reality of discrimination. Therefore, it is a totally necessary legal framework. For this reason, Citizens already in the previous legislature voted in favour of this rule, because discrimination makes us worse as a society. Moreover, there are data, it is not just a perception - I regret to tell you that I have experienced it, as a first person in my home - that the European Commission's Eurobarometer of discrimination continues to tell us that some very high percentage of people in Spain, about 39%, do not want their children to share desks with Roma children. Moreover, according to the 2019 Youth Eurobarometer, discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin and status and gender are causes for young people to live in right-wing situations. Similarly, many women live in situations of rejection, and that is why much less leadership and responsibility positions are gained. From all this there is data, for example, the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation publishes a report every year and invites a large part of this House to read it because they will be able to see with specific cases all this that I am trying to explain to them and what I am referring to. This rule has already been worked on in the previous legislature and we welcome the inclusion of part of our proposals, because it includes the application of discrimination in situations of socio-economic vulnerability, the application of the Internet and sports activities, the intervention of the Educational Inspectorate to ensure respect for and the right to equal treatment, as well as dealing with situations of discrimination on the Internet and in the field of new technologies. Therefore, it already has some improvements included. Now, I have to be critical and that's what we're going to work on. Proclaim, we've got enough. I have already told you: state regulatory framework and European regulatory framework. I need an effective, effective law on two sides. On the one hand, we must raise awareness of our society. Look, correcting behavior gets sensitised, because if we go 140 kilometers an hour on a highway and we get a fine they are sensitizing us and they are telling us what this society does not tolerate. Why? Because superior legal assets must be protected. The same is true in this area, and we need to establish a regulatory framework which has a tax sanctioning system, ladies and gentlemen, which is what this regulation presents to us today does not have, because if not, it is legally inapplicable. I therefore do not need the sanctioning regime before us, and we will have to improve it in due course. And on the other hand, the fundamental core of this rule, which is already stated by ECRI's recommendation - it is well enough that we have been pulled from the ears of both ECRI and CERD, all the international committees in relation to this rule - is the independence of that commissioner. I tell you, I don't like the name very much because it doesn't sound like a very independent organism. Therefore, an independent body, a system of taxation and better protection of victims are the three horizons on which we are going to work from our parliamentary group. However, I would like to finish by calling them to account. With regard to the outside world, our society needs social awareness of this subject because there are still many people who discriminate and reject many population groups for prejudice and stereotypes. Let's set an example. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, give an example of how this matter should be dealt with. Set an example, please. Citizens will be because they know what it is to be rejected by sectarians, because they have lived it in their own flesh. However, what I want is responsibility when this matter is dealt with in the appropriate parliamentary procedure. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u27	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialist Group here today takes this bill into consideration, and the first thing we ask ourselves is why they do not do so as a bill. Is it because they are not able to agree in the government, that they are not able to agree between the PSOE and Podemos? In any case, we are in front of a proposal that consists in recycling the bill that they presented in 2011 with the government of Rodríguez Zapatero in the form of almost copy and paste, very unsevere. We agree on the fundamental diagnosis, in the Spanish State discrimination continues to occur daily and for very different reasons: for origin, sex, sexual orientation, social and economic status and even language. But this obvious reality cannot give rise to some of the issues that are included in the proposed text, nor to absences. Thus, for example, incomprehensiblely, they regulate discrimination and affiliation to political parties, an issue which, by the way, was not included in the previous text, something which, in our view, directly clashes with respect for ideological freedom. But, of course, when today it discriminates and pursues for ideological reasons-there is today the arrest of Pablo Hasel, to whom we express the solidarity of the Galego Nationalist Block and we demand his freedom -, when the PSOE votes against in this Chamber to decriminalize the so-called insults to the Crown and bet on maintaining crimes of opinion in the Spanish legal system, we are also not overly surprised. But, curiously, there is not a single reference to linguistic discrimination, an issue on which the Spanish State has been countered for repeatedly failing to comply with the European Charter of Languages. This type of discrimination ignored in the proposal seems to be of no interest, but it implies that thousands of people every day cannot develop freely in their language and are discriminated against for using it. Curiously, in many cases, discrimination by the Administration itself, which does not guarantee citizens that they can use any of the official languages of the State. The last case was just a week ago at a police station in Vigo. Generally speaking, the proposal for a law eludes responsibility for discrimination by the public administration and places all its weight on civil society. He says that, if it occurs, it will be pursued and limited to the individual action of the public employees on duty, without recognizing that there are internal forms of functioning that promote these attitudes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u28	Mr. Rego, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u29	When the police act on the basis, for example, of ethnic, racial or economic appearance or there are no applications in all languages, it is the Administration itself that is causing discrimination. It seems to us that there are too many aspects on which we do not agree in this law, which in any case should be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u30	Thank you, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Errejón Galván has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u31	Thank you, Madam President. This anti-discrimination bill extends the freedom of all, but it must be recognized that it comes on a sarcastic day for freedom. Today the police entered the University of Lleida to arrest a singer. I do not know what we are waiting for in this Congress to repeal all the crimes of opinion and from now on, from the government, to pardon Pablo Hasel, first of all, so as not to pass the international shame that our country imprison rapists and artists, and secondly, because ideas, seem to us what they seem to us, do not offend. This law is important and necessary. It must be recognized that it has been on the agenda for ten years waiting to be approved, that it has broad support from civil society and that it represents a step forward in rights for thousands of people, basically so that no one in Spain is treated as a second-class citizen. It is not true that the law has to treat equal to those who are unequal. When there are deep social inequalities, the law has to treat different from different in order to equalize us. However, we all know what's going on here. Today at the bottom - even if no one calls it - is the discussion of the trans law and therefore, after ten years, this proposal comes here in an accelerated manner. I tell you, gentlemen of the government, you can't use this House to stick your finger in each other's eyes. I say to you that this law is necessary, but that it is dangerous to compete with progress in the rights of some sectors and others, because expanding rights is never to the detriment of anyone. We are going to vote in favour of this law and we are going to vote in favour of the trans law when it comes to this Congress of Deputies and we ask you not to compete for progress in rights. Because in the meantime, in our country, there is ongoing and daily violence against trans people and we need to talk about it. Yesterday three years of the suicide of Ekai, a sixteen-year-old boy from Vizcaya, who after years of decalvary being treated as a sick person, took his life. Spain owes a debt of pain and humiliation to trans people who do not get away with the law we are debating here today, because trans people have to stop being treated as if they had a disease. That pain is a daily pain, it's the pain that you can't ask for an appointment to go to the gynecologist; it's Alexandra's pain that was brought down in Castellón's court to prove the gender change in the register; it's the pain of Eva Vildosola, who, when she left her home in Barcelona, was chased into screams of 'fucking travelo' and 'gengendro' and kicked her on the floor, or it's the pain of the trans boy who less than a week ago in Toledo was hit by the cry of'see if you hit like a guy or like the aunt you are'. That's why it's so dangerous and so disgusting that yesterday a scoundrel tried to humiliate Carla Antonelli calling him for the male gender. Those sneezing jokes, first, are sneezing, and then, many times and too often, they turn into beatings at night. The 2007 Act needs to be exceeded. The pathologization of trans people must be abandoned because trans people are not sick, only those who hate are sick. We don't really have to discuss what trans people want to be, because trans people don't want to be anything, they are who they are. What they want is to live in freedom and to live in freedom requires a life in which everyone is free from fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u32	Thank you, Mr. Errejón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u33	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to everyone. In this state, the Spanish state, where the ultras camp out wide with their Nazi flags, with their swastikas tattooed, with their wide cross, with their hymns, with their tributes to the Blue Division, burning the poor on the streets, beating trans people on the streets, killing on the borders, beating activists who go to the streets against fascism and racism, beating young migrants, killing black people, etc., in this same state, where all this happens, people, singers, artists are also imprisoned, to tell truths with their music. Freedom, Pablo Hasel; freedom of expression. [[Applauds]] In the Spanish state, if you're black, it's 42 times more likely than the police to stop you, according to a study. An investigation focused on the performance of the National Police at the Granada bus station reflects discriminatory identifications towards ethnic minorities. Requesting documentation from a person based on their skin color or ethnic or racial profiles criminalizes minorities, according to APDHA. The Andalusian people here surely know this platform. People belonging to the most frequently identified groups feel afraid and the majority society perceives that they are being arrested because they are committing some crime. This study also points that out. Being one can be paid with life. They are beating and killing trans people for having a different sexual orientation or gender identity.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u34	Mrs. Carvalho, I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment. It is to reiterate something that we have already had the opportunity to discuss in this very rostrum. Use freedom of expression through the word, but please do not be accompanied by banners or written expressions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u35	What banner? This one? [[Mark a sticker of your tablet on which you put: OUT VOX]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u36	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u37	It's not a banner...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u39	It's not a sign, it's a sticker.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u40	A sticker, I don't care.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u41	It's not a banner, it's a Unite sticker against Fascism and Racism.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas withdraws her Tablet.-Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u43	When you say so. May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u45	The law on equal treatment and non-discrimination was urgently needed. It is a shame that there is not yet a law like this in the Spanish State. It is absurd, especially because, as I have just said, there are discriminations here, there is racism. It is also very important to talk about structural racism, institutional racism, which in this house is not assumed, will never be assumed. I wish one day it would be assumed by successive governments. The right to equal treatment and non-discrimination on the basis of beliefs, convictions, disability, racial or ethnic origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender expression, etc. has not yet been realized. It is urgent to eradicate racism and any form of persecution, for all the reasons I have just said. This law should comprehensively include the fundamental definitions of the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, as we have done in Catalonia, and, above all, the basic guarantees that enable all citizens to enjoy human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination, regardless of any personal or social circumstances. We are going to vote in favour of equal treatment, because we are anti-fascist, out of conviction, but also because if we vote that we would not give way to the ban on hatred, of the extreme right and of the right of this house could prevent it from passing this law which is absolutely important. But, look! ladies of the PSOE, it is not worth coming here to ask for a yes for this law and to prevent the trans law from going to the Council of Ministers. This isn't worth one thing or another. We need the three laws: the LGTBI law, the trans law and this one. The Republican Group will vote for three. Moreover, we are going to fill out this proposal for an amendment law - I don't know if you have read it very well, but I do - because it somehow shields the Aliens Act and the Bite Law, a big red line that we are not willing to go through. [[Applauds]] The law must also be applicable in all areas and contain explicit measures to enforce it. It should be an integral law, in which the Public Service, collective bargaining, political, trade union, business, professional, social or economic interest, spaces for political, civic and social participation, education, health, social services, child care, adolescence, young people, older persons with disabilities, housing, establishments and spaces open to the public, in the social media and information society, culture, sport, freedom of belief, administration of justice and state security forces and bodies. The law must defend and promote the law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u46	Mrs. Carvalho, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u47	I'm done, Madam President. The law is very important. There are people dying, because I don't know if you know racism kills. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Carvalho. Mr Cortés Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u49	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Spanish language dictionary of the Royal Spanish Academy, a pact is an agreement of wills that entails the fulfilment of certain obligations. So far everything is easy. Well, in the case before us, the agreement was to register the law that we are discussing today in a consensual manner and with the signature of the parties that are part of the coalition government. That is why I am obliged to ask Members of the Socialist Group: what has prompted them to act in this unfair way with Unidad Podemos, their partner in government, by presenting this law unilaterally? After a process of dialogue for six months, I must confess that we were surprised to learn from the social networks that his lordships were registering, in solitary, a law baptized as Zero Law. Today is carnival Tuesday, and the Socialist Group, while the Council of Ministers blocks the advancement of the rights of LGBT people, uses the name of one of the largest references in the field of civil rights and freedoms in this country - and that we can also recognize - Pedro Zerolo, to disguise the content of the equal treatment law, making it pass before the public for something that it is not. In this way, three different anti-discrimination laws - the law on equal treatment, which we are debating today, but also two relating to the rights of LGBT people, and the famous trans law - are distorted in their substance and form the coalition pact, which consists in drawing out in this legislature - as has already been mentioned here - three different anti-discrimination laws: the law on equal treatment, which we are debating today; and, also, two relating to the rights of LGBT people, and the famous trans law. But let us get on with it, ladies and gentlemen, and see why it was essential to fulfil the obligation to work together for equality on the basis of common notions and not on the basis of unilateral notions. The law that today brings to this House the Socialist Group is too timid a law - and this has also been said by some of the spokesmen who have preceded me in the use of the word -; it loses the opportunity to give our country a powerful vaccine against hatred, a vaccine that eradicates both new forms of hate propagation and all forms of structural and institutional discrimination. We could consider giving this law a higher rank, since the matters it seeks to regulate involve the development of Article 14 of the Constitution, and also two European directives, as mentioned here: Directive 2000/43 and Directive 2000/78, in addition to Articles 20, 21 and 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Well, as stated in article 81 of our Constitution, the rules protecting fundamental rights must be legislated through organic laws, and this contemplation could, among other things, allow us to work more deeply and with greater guarantees in positive action measures, both in policies of redistribution and in recognition policies, for example, to amend the Education Act to eradicate the segregation or monitoring of educational centres, and also to include curricular changes so that the history of the Gypsy people, the historical facts that have violated human rights, as well as the history and effect on the presentation of colonialism or the tragic scope of the holocaust in all its dimensions can be studied in compulsory education. It would also allow - as has been mentioned here - to amend the Aliens Act to ensure that migrant persons who are victims of serious crimes are protected and do not receive an expulsion file when reporting their suffering. This amendment would avoid double victimization, for example, of trafficked women for the purpose of sexual exploitation. It would also make it possible, inter alia, to amend the Criminal Code to improve the wording of hate crimes, so that historically discriminated groups could be better protected. I should also like to mention the recommendations that have recently been made to Spain by both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe in mentioning that anti-Gypsyism must be on the same level as anti-Semitism. By the way, in this, a country like Romania has already advanced to us on the left. At the moment, none of this would be possible with the current version of the law proposed by the Socialist Group. Speaking of democratic imperfections, today is a day when progressive parties must not remain indifferent to what is happening in our country. While on Saturday with total impunity a priest was conducting an act of apologia against Nazism in front of a neo-Nazi cohort, this very morning rapper Pablo Hasel went into prison after being arrested by the Mossos at the University of Lleida. This is not only anomalous from a democratic point of view, this is the world upside down: free fascist militias to spread hatred and artists in prison for singing in verse the same thing that the national and international newspapers publish about the escaped emeritus king. A law of equal treatment cannot be allowed the luxury, ladies and gentlemen, of perpetuating the impunity of those who point out, pursue and attack the most vulnerable groups in our society, thus throwing themselves directly at the feet of the horses of the far right and contributing to the expansion of neofascism both in Spain and in the rest of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to give our country a vaccine against hatred and discrimination, we have the responsibility not to repeat the eternal error that African-American activist and writer Marian Wright Edelman warned us of, saying: We are in time to prevent the new generations of boys and girls in our country from growing up with the poison that adults have not had the courage to eliminate. Thank you very much, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Cortés. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Prohens Rigo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to start my speech without condemning the anti-Semitic demonstration that took place this weekend in Madrid. Increasing anti-Semitism in different sectors of society cannot find space either by action or by omission. This proposal for a law presented today by the Socialist Party is born of the need to adapt different directives and recommendations, but it comes to this Congress wrapped in a controversy that has nothing to do with the concern for racism, xenophobia or discrimination, but for this unbridled struggle between the PSOE and Podemos; a struggle to see who supports the banner of feminism and equality, a struggle of egos in which one side and another, but in which they always lose the same: the vulnerable, the women, the minors, the people with disabilities. On this occasion, the Socialist Party presented an initiative that - to be acknowledged - comes from a text worked out the past legislature among all political forces. Well, this text has had the unfavourable report of the Ministry of Equality. Party result: PSOE 1, Podemos 0, policy of equality: minus 10, because these are the positions that Spain has fallen in the ranking of equality since you - the so-called feminist government - are in power: less female employment, less education, more inequality. At the door of a new 8-M this is its balance, at the door of a new 8-M the Ministry of Equality has achieved in a single year opposition to its policies of the entire feminist movement. But let's continue with the data that has triggered your policies. Spain was the country of the European Union where unemployment among women increased the most in 2020, almost 3 points, more than double the European average. The gap in inequality is widening and there is a record of unemployment among young people in the European Union with an unemployment rate of 40%, one million people below the poverty line and 800,000 more people in severe poverty and 18% of households with all their unemployed members. The role endures everything, and we share the philosophy of this law and the need for a cross-cutting regulation against discrimination against sectoral laws and that operates against any kind of discrimination, but many of the things reflected in this law do not marry the reality of their policies now that they have been ruling for two years. You speak of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities while ignoring that the United Nations has warned Spain that the Law on Euthanasia ill-treats disability by contributing to its stigmatization. Rectify? They talk about the Commission's Accessibility Directive while parties in government have tabled amendments to the whole text of the Cognitive Accessibility Act. Rectify? They talk about the rights of children while punishing children with disabilities by not being able to choose the educational institution that best suits their needs. Rectify? They talk about the report of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance while ignoring NGOs, the judge of the CIE and the Spanish Commission for Aid to Refugees, which are desolating, inhumane and intolerable the conditions of overcrowding in which migrants are kept in Las Palmas. Absolve the principle of equal opportunities for men and women as the Plan for Me fails. The maternity supplement is charged with pensions or child benefit and, lastly, it refers to discrimination against older persons. From the People's Party we have recorded initiatives against chronic loneliness or aging while its vice president has left behind the residences, the centres of the elderly and condemned the most cruel loneliness of our elders during this pandemic. To comply with many of the precepts of this law they must give a 180-degree turn to their management. Nevertheless, we announce our abstention from the consideration of this law. Is that a necessary law? Yeah. Was it born of a struggle between the government? Also. Do you want the rest of the games to tilt the balance? Also. And I say to you that we are going to table amendments so that this law unequivocally combines policies against discrimination with legal certainty and the individual freedom of citizens, amendments which were rejected in the last text that was seen in this House. Differentiated education centres, for example, according to the Constitutional decree of April 2018, are not a cause of discrimination forming part of the idea of each centre and of freedom of education. You, excused for non-discrimination, cannot leave these centres without public funding, nor can you eliminate special education centres. [[Applauds]] Nor do we agree with the creation of a new administrative structure, apart from colliding with structures already existing at the moment of this unprecedented crisis, it does not touch; 736 is the number of high-ranking officials - a complaint pulverized by any record that this Government has - while they have refused to allocate 71 million euros of the increase in high-ranking officials to the fight against growing child poverty and when they even have a Directorate-General for Equal Treatment and Diversity with a budget dedicated only to staff and studies. No measure, no proposal. We will also be careful that this law does not lead to any regression in women's policies by being women, by changing terminology, or by deleting. We will also monitor the articles on housing and citizen security because with you, legislation always endangers private property and the defence of the security forces and bodies. I'm done. All Governments, whatever sign they may be, have taken steps towards greater equality and to banish any form of discrimination in this society. In the People's Party we show our commitment to further progress. Moreover, in the pandemic we are experiencing, poor health, economic and social management has not been free in terms of racism, anti-Gyptanism or inequality. Therefore, our commitment to work on this law to improve it, away from the noise caused by this government, because, as our president, Pablo Casado, says, we are the party of all Spaniards, live where they live, love whom they love, speak the language they speak and pray to God to pray. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Prohens. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which is an organization against illegal employment and for the protection of the safety and security of persons and things in the communities of owners. [[File number 122/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u53	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, which is organic against illegal occupation and for neighbourhood coexistence and the protection of the security of people and things in the communities of owners. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u54	Thank you, President. Very good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with something we cannot overlook. We all have a commitment to this country, the first, that of our oath, and that commitment is to defend the constitutional values that protect us all - everyone - and that are the framework of our rights and freedoms. What cannot be done is that we have a government that does not assume it and that contributes to chaos, a chaos that the Spaniards do not deserve. We cannot avoid the great concern of the Spaniards for the ocupation. We are all campaigning in Catalonia and, despite the results, which for us have not been good, we have heard, felt and felt the sadness, anxiety and insecurity of many citizens in the face of something as serious as octopus, a scourge that has spread to such an extent that there are more than forty daily occupations, that the data have doubled since 2019, from seven thousand octopus to almost fourteen thousand in 2020, and in some autonomous communities even tripled, being Spain the European country that is not only that it has lax legislation, it is that with the last real decrees approved it is incited to octopus, something inconceivable in a state of law. [[The Lord]] This sign is hanging on the streets of a Spanish city, and it says, 'Do you want to emancipate? Can't you pay the rent? Have you thought about okupar? [[shows a poster]] Together we'll figure it out.' This may seem absolutely normal to ordinary people, but I assure you that the common mortals seem to us to be an absolute aberration. [[Applauds]] And for things like this these days on the street we have also felt the approval of the people, because we have had the courage to resort to the Constitutional Court a law of the Generalitat where the okupation is legalized, a law that allowed with impunity to occupy a house without penalty, a law that rewards the okupa and penalizes the occupied one, a law that considers empty an okuped house, in the end a law that incites okupar, which is a call to the commission of a crime and is an attack on private property, and that, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot consent to. And the most serious thing is that it is a law that has been the prelude to the last royal decree-laws that we have discussed in this House, Royal Decree-Law 37/2020 and Royal Decree-Law 1/2021, and each of them involves a direct attack on private property and our constitutional fundamental rights. On the one hand, the temporary expropriation of a dwelling before a non-payment procedure and, on the other hand, without compensation. This is important, because they are free measures for the Government, which loads everything on the homeowners. And above all in these decrees it is necessary to justify that they cause economic damage. Put yourself in the place of being robbed of your wallet. Maybe they didn't have money inside, but just thinking that it's a felony that protects what it creates is insecurity so that you don't leave your house. On the other hand, the officialization of the okupation. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, they have disguised the theft of constitutional rights of social policy, of protection for the most vulnerable, and that is not the case. The only housing measures approved by the Government are a clear and direct attack on private property. If you want to protect the right to housing of vulnerable families, create social housing, let affordable housing, make housing and provide legal security for others to do what you are unable to do. Its ineffectiveness cannot be justified by attacking private property. You with one hand protect the Okupas from the attack on private property and with another begin the eviction of families living in public housing. That's it! And don't confuse, evicting an okupa isn't a eviction, it's recovering a good, it's evicting someone who's making use of something that's not yours. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, okupar is a crime and as such we must treat it. Therefore, today we bring here our proposal for a comprehensive law against okupation, whose main objective is the eviction, an eviction in twelve hours, almost immediately, in twelve hours an okupa to the street. The first thing to put forward is that an effective housing policy cannot be mixed up or confused with protecting octopus. With regard to vulnerable families, the Administration had to do its job, which had always been done by the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, when we arrived at the government in 2011, you know that Spain was in a very deep crisis where people were being evicted without mercy, and also thanks to a socialist law of express eviction. We made the law on the protection of mortgage debtors, with which we solved the problem, moratorium in 2013, and in 2017 we extended the moratorium on evictions until 2020, which is the one that the government has renewed. We agree that the Government has extended the period for forecasting evictions until the end of the state of alarm. It seems to us good and even more, if necessary, but it would be better if, in parallel, two things were resolved that we have already said: the housing alternative in eviction proceedings, an issue that was already resolved in the current housing plan of the People's Party, but the Government has been responsible for nullifying those contents; and that the situation of the vulnerable tenant is also contemplated, which is guaranteed through the same judicial process that, although there can be no eviction if the tenant's vulnerability is justified, payment is guaranteed to the tenant, who can sometimes find himself in a worse economic situation. On the other hand, government aid, which has not worked. If their rental aids designed for the effects of the pandemic were to work, no one would be subjected to eviction and no one would be subjected to okupar following the invitation - let's say so - from the government. Its ineffectiveness cannot be replaced by incitement to commit a crime. [[Applauds]] What solution is that of: I, Administration, do not work and I dedicate myself to advertising that occupy people's homes? God! We can agree on the protection of vulnerable families, and the People's Party was the first party to take steps to protect mortgage debtors, but what cannot be done is housing policy under the umbrella of illegal occupation. We have been working on this for years and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, know that you were about to join the consensus that existed in 2018 with the amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, which proposed eviction in five days. But it was not so, they did not join, because you did not want, they sold themselves for a dish of lentils, as Esau sold his birthright to Jacob. And then it went ahead, it was approved with some shortcomings, but without the Socialist Party, which already began to be an accomplice to Podemos in the troupes against private property. In this amendment of the Civil Prosecution Act, legal persons and, in addition, the whole cluster of collateral circumstances that accompany the phenomenon of octopus and that we from the People's Party believe that an integral solution must be found. Our proposal for a law is an integral and indivisible proposal that, in addition to resolving the actions of the State Security Forces and Bodies, resolves other situations that are collateral to the phenomenon of ocupation. It is the treatment of opupation as a criminal offence, it is the defense of private property, it is the guarantee of citizen security, the protection against mafia, the restriction of the rights to whom it commits a crime, and for this the first thing is to guarantee the eviction in twelve hours, first voluntarily and, if not, to carry out the determinations of the law. It is to reverse the current procedure; first the rights of the owner. And for that our law defines exactly what occupation is as a criminal act. It defines for the first time what is illegal occupation, which is the possession or enjoyment of a foreign property; it regulates the fight against the mafias, establishing prison sentences and allowing the communities of owners to intervene. In defence of citizen security, the communities of owners are empowered to exercise protection and complaint actions in the event that the owner is absent. It is the communities of neighbors and the urban environments in which the big sufferers of incisive behavior and insecurity that they generate are established. In addition, an illegally occupied property may not be considered as domicile or dwelling, so that the illegals do not enjoy the same protection as a person who has a home for purchase or rent and has paid for it with his or her effort. Registration in the municipal register shall therefore be deemed null and void where the person attempting to register in the municipal register is an illegal occupant. We amend the Civil Prosecution Act to introduce offences of usurpation of property, and the Criminal Code, where all measures of usurpation are punishable. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot dismantle our rule of law or turn our country into an okupa paradise. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, today you have the opportunity to support a law that demands the whole of society, except for its governing partners. You have the last word. You decide whether you are with those who defend the crime or with those with whom we pursue the crime. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u55	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] He has requested the use of the turn against the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal. Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, where to begin? This is a proposal for a law that, in fact, is a calcum. I do not know how the lords of Citizens will be, but they must have an important musket because it is the same that they presented, the measures are the same. Basically it is a Columbus law, it is a law of those who understand that the time has come for the criminalization of poverty, that it is the time to respond to a situation like that we have in our country, where there are more than 80,000 families and it is estimated that around 270,000 people are living in precarious situations and that, at the same time, they do not have economic resources as a result of the previous crisis. And they also tell us that this is in defense of private property. The thing's got a lot of crumbs. And it has a lot of crumbs because for this to be said, it takes the memory of the fish. I say the memory of the fish, because in this country since 2008 hundreds of thousands of illegal mortgage enforcement procedures have been executed, declared by the European Court of Justice illegal; houses that were placed in the hands of financial institutions and ended up at a balance price in the hands of vulture funds. But that doesn't matter, that's not something that you care about. What is the origin, the cause, the problem of us being faced with a situation as serious as the one we have on infra-housing? Because let's talk about property, we're talking about an infra-living situation. Is this the first time it's happened in our country? No, it's not the first time. The processes of urban concentration in Spain resulted in the generation of thousands of infra-housings in the urban environments of our country, illegally built on land by people who during the day built their houses with four walls, and if they could cover water, they could stay inside and, if they could not cover water, they would throw the houses at them. Thus was built the neighborhood of Usera, that of Orcasitas in particular; so was built the neighborhood of the Well of uncle Raimundo and so many other neighborhoods in the conurbations of our cities during those years. And when democracy arrived, it was not intended to use the excavators and carry out a movement of thousands of people using State violence, no, it looked from a democratic point of view, from a human rights point of view. And what was done? Plans were made for social inclusion, impact assessment, neighbourhood participation in those plans, addressing the situation of social exclusion from a social point of view, seeking alternatives. And that resulted, even, in the designs of new neighborhoods in which the neighbors even participated in the design of their own streets and their own neighborhoods. But we're not at that moment. A writer said something long ago that I would apply to you: you are not against poverty, you are against the poor. I say this because we have heard a moment ago that they have just introduced the crime of usurpation into the Penal Code. Well, really, sometimes I think the House deserves respect. Because this was introduced in 1995 in the Spanish Penal Code. It is true that it is not part of our legal tradition; in our legal tradition it was a civil illicit and the owner, if he wanted to recover, went to civil proceedings and the judge restored his possession and ready. That has been practically so since the Romans, because in fact in order to be able to find a precedent to the typification of 1995 we have to go to the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, nor during all the Francoism this was typified. Why? Because it doesn't make sense. The fundamental problem is abandoned housing, but that's not what we're going to talk about. Why are we going to talk about abandoned housing? Why are we going to talk about buildings that vulture bottoms have emptiness and that are falling apart and that threaten coexistence in cities? Why are we going to talk about that? Why are we going to talk about an offence under the Criminal Code that is called detracting essential goods from the market to artificially alter the price of things? Why are we going to talk about that if that guy is executed by powerful people? We're not going to talk about that because we don't care. Moreover, from the most absolute hypocrisy, we are told that what needs to be done is social housing; that what they propose in this case is to apply the Penal Code, but that social housing needs to be made. And we are told by those who, in the midst of the biggest economic and social crisis that has been experienced so far - which we will see next - have sold 5000 social housing units in the Community of Madrid, 3000 the community and 2000 the city council. The Supreme Court, by the way, has already told them that they have to execute the sentence, that is, that since they did not settle to comply with the motu proprio, there is already an order of execution that says they have to recover them, that they are social housing and that they are necessary for the population. So follow the sentence and set an example that they respect the social rights of our people. [[Applauds]] It is insulting to see the text from the moment when even the very doctrine of the Constitutional Court referring to the particular domicile is questioned, trying to restore principles that were expelled from our legal system after the adoption of the Corcuera law, with explicit decision of the Constitutional Court as to what is considered domicile in our legal system. You get it back and you want to put it here, into a law, simply because you want to compete with the king's thirds. Well, look, it's going to be bad for you to compete with the king's third parties; stick to something else, focus on looking at the European Union and the democratic right. There is a great need for a democratic right in this country, because there is no democratic right at state level, there is no right, unfortunately we do not have it. [[Applauds]] That is a lack, and it is necessary for the political debate in this country. But for that it is necessary to understand that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a consensus. It cannot be said in a text that the right to private property is a right, but that the right to housing is a guiding principle because it is stated in the Constitution. They review the Constitution: article 96, on international treaties; article 10, on the interpretation of norms in accordance with human rights. Review: signature and ratification of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; pass it. Review the optional protocol of the UN ESC Committee, signed and ratified by our country, which recognizes the resolutions of the ESC Committee as applicable to our country. Take a look, because in doing so, in recognizing the international human rights system, they will come close to being a democratic right. I say this to you with great regret; I say this to you with great regret because at this time so bitter and difficult that we are going to live and that we are living it is necessary to establish the waters of those who agree with the full implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the protocols that develop it and of those who work to undermine them. Unfortunately, you are taking sides with those who seek to undermine our international human rights obligations with this text. [[The lady]] It turns out that, as I mentioned to you, we have signed and ratified the optional protocol and have recognized the DESC Committee as a body that informs our legal system with its resolutions. We have discussed this in this House in a number of previous legislatures; in fact, we have adopted a resolution to recognize those resolutions. Well, I recommend you read the communication 126637/2018, I recommend it. In point 17, general recommendations, mention is made of the guarantee of non-repetition in a specific resolution against the Kingdom of Spain for non-compliance with the right to housing, because the right to housing is in our legal system as a right, not only as a guiding principle. By signing and ratifying the optional protocol, we recognized it as a right and entered our legal system as a right that, of course, all the political forces that we are part of the Legislature, we have an obligation to implement and implement these resolutions. In these guarantees of non-repetition of the violation of a right, it proposes to develop a regulatory framework governing the evictions of persons from their homes, incorporating that the judicial authorities carry out a proportionality examination between the purpose pursued of the measure and the consequences on the displaced persons, as well as the compatibility of this measure with the pact in all cases, including those of occupation without legal title. United Nations. What we are told here is that poverty is not fought with prisons, but with social policies, and that it is clear that in order to make social policies one must hold hands with the privileged, one must say to the large funds that have to respect our people, and that means limiting the right to property. You, when you talk about the right to property, seem to be in a different era. Read the international human rights treaties, read our legislation. When they say that the right to property cannot be limited, I invite them to make a call to Don Jaime Botín. The gentleman had a picture of Picasso that had been bought and decided he was going to sell it out, and he couldn't. Why? Because it's historical heritage and it can't be taken. Property is limited to its social function; property is limited to its social function in a social and democratic rule of law, that is true. In what Mr Hayek puts forward that he prefers a liberal dictatorship to a democracy,there are no limits, but that is pinochetism and that is far from democracy, and what we need at a time like this is to strengthen democratic values. I invite you to do so, I invite you because it is important that a force like yours be on the side of human rights. Abandon the reactionary attempt to compete with those who want to resurrect the dictatorship in our country with the dissolution of political parties and the deprivation of fundamental rights to large sections of our population. Get out of that way. And I'm done. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u58	I'm done. José Luis Concepción, President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Castile and León, says: Democracy in a country is put in sulfide from the moment the Communist Party is in government. Today a rapper goes into jail. This weekend they were demonstrating in defense of a military unit of the Nazi army, something that has been done for a long time; unfortunately, we have seen how in our barracks they dried up hymns of this Nazi military unit and were only punished with a slight fault.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u59	Mr. Mayor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u60	I'm done. This is what they call democratic normality, this is what they call democratic normality. [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u62	Unfortunately, on too many occasions justice emanates from the people, but is manipulated in the king's name. Thank you. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u63	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Zurita Exposito.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u64	Thank you, President. Mr. Mayor, I always tell you not to scream, because no matter how much you scream and say all kinds of things here in this rostrum, you're not going to be right. You have spoken about housing policy, social policy, the right to housing, the United Nations, why did you not join in this morning's non-legislative proposal that we put forward in the Committee on Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to create a social and affordable housing stock exchange? Because they are not interested, because the only thing that interests them is the espropie, as you say; we are going to control the rents, we are going to control private property, we are going to facilitate the occupation and we are going to support a crime. [[applause]] That's where your whole speech comes from, where you're supporting a crime. And I tell him not because he insults us, he's right. As long as you're talking about vulture funds, these days I've remembered a lot about you; I've remembered, although I don't like the word, but your friend, Mr. Currency, should not like it either. [[Shows a press clipping]] According to this news, Mr Monedero charged 35,000 euros from a real estate fund for advisory services to three countries. [[Rumors]] These were vultures? Were they vultures? [[Applauds]] He will answer me; he will answer me whether they were vultures or what they were. As you know, all those measures that you defend are to disguise social policy. They disguise as social policy the theft of our constitutional rights, and they do not go to the funds, they go to the people, Mr Mayoral, to the 4 million Spaniards who have the rent as a complement to their income and their pension. You know as well as I do that 95% of the rent in Spain are funds, they are natural people, they are people, they are small businesses. Only 5% is in the hands of their ghosts, those vultures that constantly stalk you and the socimis, which - you know the data like me - only allocate 8% of their assets to housing. When you want to legalize the opt-out by relying on human rights you attack a fundamental right, you attack the Spanish workers, savers, pensioners. Mr Mayor, democracy begins by respecting constitutional values, which seems to be not going with you. Look, I would believe you if you gave me, for example, a fixed criterion of the definition of great fork; great forks to which, in your opinion, the seven plagues of Egypt have to fall. In Decree 11/2020, which you are amending every Tuesday, a large fork is a person who has ten dwellings or 1500 square meters of surface between its properties. In the Catalan law there were fifteen, in the Emergency Housing Law that you brought in in the last legislature there were five, then there were eight. I would believe your speech if you told me a coherent criterion, but it is that you do not have it; the only criterion you have is to attack clearly and directly private property, and that is neither democracy nor constitutionalism nor nothing. [[Applauds]] For you there is no right to possess, of course, except for you - I don't know if Mr. Churches will already be at the limit of being a great forbearer, but surely so -, and your only justification is to attack and demonize private property. Mayor, we know that for you access to housing is to buy, rent or okupar, but I repeat to you again what I said in the first intervention: I do not understand you when you speak, but the only thing that is very clear is that okupar is a crime and, as much as you raise your voice, you will not be able to nullify the constitutional right to property. Someone from your parliamentary group said that the ocupation was an urban legend. It's not an urban legend, okupation is a reality. Forty houses per day are occupied, and the data have doubled since 2019 thanks to government support: almost 14,000 occupations, and those are reported. The most important thing about our proposed law is that octopus is defined as a crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, let me repeat this: are you next to those who defend this criminal activity or are you with those who defend the Spaniards of the Okupas and the Mafias? It is in your hands that this bill comes forward. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u65	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mayor Perales has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u66	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that it makes me very sad to hear what I've heard, why we're going to cheat!, and it makes me very sad about the inability to actually get into the substantive debate. Let us return to the same thing: it is already a criminal offence in the Criminal Code since 1995, it is already a criminal offence. What the People's Party is now proposing is something else; what the PP is proposing, in particular, is that these penalties be imprisonment, imprisonment. I mean, what you're asking is: in the face of an infra-life situation of 270,000 people, in the face of this social phenomenon, what should be done? Everyone to jail! Everyone to jail! This is the approach that is constantly faced with a situation that requires social policies and social intervention, in the face of a situation in which there is evidence that the social role of housing is being used repeatedly by very obvious economic operators for a long time. They haven't answered us. I say this every time I go up to talk about this issue, which is already a recurring topic, because the media and big corporations have been campaigning to sell their alarms and to spread thug companies. It is a recurring topic here, I repeat, but I still don't hear you say: Don't worry, we are going to comply with the Supreme's sentence and we are going to recover the 3,000 homes of the Community of Madrid for the people of Madrid. That is a concrete, straightforward response that is directly in their hands and in the hands of the rest of their partners. But no, they're not those, it's not something they're interested in, it's not something they're worried about. You're worried about other things. They are obviously concerned about turning social problems into problems of public order, and I must tell you with all modesty that not the whole Spanish legal system is criminal law. Not everything is criminal law; there is civil law, there is administrative law and - look at it - there is even constitutional law: that of the proportionality of penalties according to the facts and these things, these things. But no, they're not in those. I really want to take advantage of the fact that I am here to ask for sensitivity to the democratic sectors left in the People's Party. I ask you to get out of irrationality, get off the mountain and get back to understanding the most basic constitutional principles, because, really, I think they're getting their business wrong. Trying to dress up with the king's third helmet isn't good for you, it's not good for you. They're doing very badly. Why do they not learn from Christian democracy, from democratic liberals; not from the neoliberals of Pinochet - not from those, not - but from European democratic liberalism? Why don't you think about it? Because European democratic liberalism understands that when there are operators who can artificially influence and alter the price of essential goods there must be regulatory rules, and that is not a hindrance to private property, it is precisely to give it a social function, because private property is not an absolute good, but it has to fulfil a social good. If any of you have a building, you cannot set fire to it for as long as it is yours; for likewise you cannot let it fall to pieces. [[The Lord]] You can't do that. Then the state has to intervene, but it has to intervene and be hard with the strong, because being so with the weak has no merit; being hard with those who have no economic benefit, who have no recourse... Man, I know you have another model of housing policy; I know it because you say it every day and, in fact, you have recently adopted measures at Madrid City Hall. What happens is that there is a world below 33,000 euros, which is the amount from which you start to make social housing policies, that is, there are millions of people in another situation. I believe that, as democratic forces, taking over the resolutions of the United Nations Committee is an exercise of responsibility, and that - I am going to tell you - is neither of the left nor of the right, that is being a Democrat. If De Gaulle saw you, he'd run you over to your hats. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u67	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The consideration of this proposal for an organic law against octopus - with ka - will help to put order in the legislative deviations resulting from the erratic housing policy carried out by the government of Pedro Sánchez, whose most recent shows are the royal decrees-laws that in respect of this matter were validated in the last plenary sessions of the Congress and which, in the case of 1/2021, have clear views of unconstitutionality, since it is a formula that disregards the right to property. In addition to the badly drafted fiasco of ministerial order, perpetrated during the first state of alarm, back in April, I rejected in the name of Forum the rules that highlight a way to legislate nothing rigorous. The housing policy in Spain needs legal certainty in order to meet the legitimate rights of the owners, as well as the impetus of the public administrations to promote social housing, access to mortgages under the best conditions or aid to the rental housing market, not to mention that formulas must also be enabled to provide legal certainty for both the tenants and the owners. In any case, the initiative of the People's Group, which has defended and best illustrated Mrs Zurita Exposito, is relevant, among other things, because it affects protection against the crimes of usurpation of real estate and trespassing, something that has been demanding a very important part of Spanish society: protection against illegal occupation, an undesirable phenomenon that is on the rise, even with variants to extort the owner or the community of neighbours, and that is perpetrated through mafia devices that hinder coexistence and increase the work of the courts. Mr Mayor, neither you nor your party should forget that you have been ruling fourteen months in Spain and that at this time the problem of illegal occupation has become acute in our country. And where it has become more acute it is not in Madrid, no; where it has become more acute the problem of the okupas - what a coincidence! - it is in Barcelona, where you govern and where a month ago you have created even a guide that provides advice and guidance for the okupas to evade the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the most recent data, the illegal occupation in Asturias does not reach the worrying statistical levels of other autonomous communities, but, as in many other places, it also brings up the number of complaints, which confirms the need for clear, clear and unambiguous legislative instruments, such as those contained in the criminal, civil and administrative fields raised in this parliamentary initiative, which will count on my vote. In the Forum we also believe that, like other European countries like ours, Spain needs to be provided with legislation that provides protection to the owners of octopus dwellings, that gives judges the ability to resolve with agility the flagrant illegal occupations and that supports the work of our Security Forces and Bodies in order to intervene against this growing way of delinquent with the housing of others by means. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u69	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u70	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. Our position on illegal occupation is very clear, and I have already had the opportunity to present it in this rostrum on more than one occasion. If it is illegal, it cannot be allowed, the same as any illegal act; there must be a sanction, but it must also be prevented and, of course, it cannot be allowed to continue once initiated. However, it is illegal to go against the laws, and if the laws - as was the case with Royal Decree 1/2020 - are adopted and exceptional transitional conditions are laid down for certain groups, we are no longer talking about illegal occupation. It is clear that there is a conflict of rights here and that it is the law that has to establish how to resolve them. Indeed, we have a conflict between the right to housing, the right to property and the limits to it for the social function of property established by the Constitution. This is not new, but we always forget the patrimonial responsibility of the Administration, of which we talk very little; this is already invented, in no country in the world can be expropriated free of charge to individuals. It is true that laws can become unconstitutional, but as long as the Constitutional Court does not annul them, the laws go to mass, are in force and must be enforced. We have a poorly solved problem and, therefore, it seems to us that this proposal for a law is being dealt with, because a lot needs to be matified. It is also clear that there are many colladeros for criminals in the current legislation; there are issues, such as the pattern, which is as embarrassing as it is, and there are judicial proceedings that leave, of course, much to be desired. Look, gentlemen of the People's Party, you have a problem in Cantabria with the PRC - I don't see your deputies here today - and lately you have intensified it and you are trying to create a false polemic in Cantabria, touching us and incoherent, but I think anyone with a minimum of objectivity knows that we always reason our vote. I have the advantage that I don't have to follow the instructions that the spokesman tells me, although I recognize that sometimes it is a great responsibility. I think we've always been quite consistent so far. I am not saying that we are perfect, but, of course, when it comes to defending Cantabria's interests, it does not happen to us as its Members, who can vote one thing here and the other in Cantabria. On this subject we have always defended those who suffer from illegal occupation, here, in the rest of Spain and in Cantabria, where, by the way, we also have some important problem, as is the case with Polanco, where there is a very affected group that I have already counted in this House. But, well, don't worry about Mr. Movellan, that I'm not going to tell you your inconsistencies here. I just want to say, finally, that we are about to find a balance that respects the rights of all. We are aware that fundamental steps are being taken to provide affordable housing for all citizens, and this is through a determined intervention by the public sector, but, in the meantime, what we want is for the law to be complied with, something I believe not everyone agrees with in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u71	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u72	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have the feeling that, with this initiative - beyond the content of it, in which I will then enter - the People's Party is launching a new cycle. I believe that you have decided, perhaps because of the very poor results you have achieved in Catalonia, to move to a market rather than a political one; you probably want to compete with Desocupa, to see who gets out of work before; they promise seventy-two hours to get out of work for the tenants and you promised here today twelve hours. Well, as a business slogan it may make sense, but, of course - as you have already pointed out - it enjoys very little humanity in what has to do with the rights of people who do not have the possibility of having a home. You present here today a set of measures - almost a bus - on the issue of housing and okupation that you propose is to amend the Criminal Code, to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, to amend even the Horizontal Property Act and some more that left me on the way. And what is the fundamental objective of this? Toughen the crime of octopus, making the penalties progress to a degree, i.e. by raising the fines in months or years in prison and also in financial fines. For what? To favor the evictions - even more - that continue to occur and, of course, to protect the vulture funds; vulture funds with which you continue to have relations, because at the head of the vulture funds of the Spanish State there are still insignia and illustrious surnames of the world, of the universe of the People's Party; Aznar-Botella could be an example, and Cerberus, its matrix, another. That is the reality that you raise here today, in this debate. They have already told you: if your initiative went ahead, you would make Berlanga's film dream come true, you would get more people, almost everyone, to go to jail. Not all corrupt politicians, who already know they're not going to jail; we're talking about all people who can't get a home. You have begun your intervention by talking about the constitutional oath that all your ladies and gentlemen seem to be obliged to do here to take up office; well, some of us are being sued in court for not doing so as some of you would like. In any case, he speaks of the Constitution as such an order that should not and cannot be saved. And I want to remind you of what Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution says: All Spaniards - I suppose non-owners too - have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. The public authorities shall promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to give effect to this right, regulating the use of soil in accordance with the general interest to prevent speculation. Who's speculating? The vulture funds. Who are you protecting your initiative from? To the vulture funds. Are you really complying with the Constitution, which so says you love and respect? Honestly, I'm not a constitutional expert on what it has to do with the legal text of the Spanish state, but I'd just say no; and I wouldn't just say it, I think anyone could say it. However, you do not do this initiative without understanding the context in which we are. We are in a very specific context: there are 5 million people in the Spanish State - 5 million in the Spanish State - living below the poverty line and at risk of severe exclusion; that is the reality. Of these, 800,000 have been incorporated into this terrible poverty drama during the pandemic. How many of these people, Your Honor, do you think they can lose their homes? Not a few. How many of these people do you think will have to choose between paying the mortgage or being able to continue feeding? Not a few. And for all these people what you offer is to reduce your ability to have a housing alternative, because the state is not going to give it to you and because you are going to chase anyone looking for a roof to sleep. That is the reality, and that is why we believe that there is a clear political intention and we believe that there is a profound ideological burden. It is not innocuous your initiative, Your Honor; it is an initiative that has much to do with what the now critical representative of the People's Party, once a spokesman, calls cultural war; the cultural war that says that the privileges of a few cannot be touched even if this is to the detriment, to the detriment, of the interests of the popular majority. It is the one that says that the private good, that the private particular interest, is above the general interest or the common interest. Of course, we are located in the opposite band to which you defend, because you are looking out for the interests of the great forbearers, and you say it in your text openly when you want to modify what is meant by dwelling, when you want to disassociate the invasion of dwelling from the octopus more clearly so that in the end - that is the curious and paradoxical - you combine everything as if it were the same criminal fact. In short, we are with the dispossessed and the dispossessed and you are with the great forbearers. Probably, you long for past times, you long for times of ideological, cultural and even political uniformity - by uniformity I mean single party - but we believe in free self-management spaces. We believed in Kukutza, we believed in Errekaleor and we believed in all existing self-management okupation experiences. You say in your text something that is graphic, you say that citizens fear, that neighbours fear that certain urban areas will worsen their status. That is what really worries them, that the value of their homes is depreciated because among people - the last - that makes the value of the dwelling of the penultimates depreciate; again the perverse logic of the capitalist wheel. We and we prefer, in view of the logic that certain urban areas worsen their status, to be with impoverished neighborhoods so that they do not become vulture-backed. They told them, and they could give him examples; in Bilbao we can give him one: Bilbao La Vieja, San Francisco and Zabala, where the pandemic has exacerbated the situation of genuine social emergency. And your neighbors, what have they done? Defend the people who want to unburden the vulture funds. What have your neighbors done? To go out with them and with them to denounce that what is truly violent, what is truly illegal, what is truly punishable is the growth of poverty and social exclusion, the inadequacy of public services and institutional abandonment. That's our dividing line with you, because you want to do it too is to get more people out of the pattern to deny you more rights. You take them out of the pattern to turn for many people the fact of being registered in an impossible mission, a mission almost more impossible than that of Mr. Suárez Illana finishing the book that he is reading every time we intervened the people of Euskal Herria Bildu from the atril before the end of this legislature; something really inextricable and difficult. [[Rumors]] I'm gonna finish it. You surely prefer to be with the vulture funds - we are going to be with your victims - and that is probably why you have taken a series of actions that I cannot qualify as preventive, and that is why today you announced that the People's Party was abandoning the People's Party headquarters. And I say that I believe it is a preventive action because if we take into account one of the changes that you make in the law, in particular that which has to do with Article 6.2, the owner and the legal or illegal occupant of the flat or local is not allowed to carry out in the property activities prohibited by the statutes, or that are harmful to the estate, or that contravene the general provisions on annoying, unhealthy, harmful, dangerous or unlawful activities. It is likely that by seeing this text which you are presenting you have decided to get rid of before the seat of the People's Party to contravene this, because it also says the same point - I have already finished - that if the judgment were estimatory for the owner, that is to say for you - in this case Genoa 13 - you could also have the final cessation of the prohibited activity and compensation for damages, as well as the deprivation of the right to use the house or local for a period not exceeding three years. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is good for you to do preventive policy, but it would be much better if someone stopped delinquent and stopped stealing everyone's money so that that money could provide decent housing for everyone and everything, and not just the privileges of big companies. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u73	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u74	Thank you very much, President. We are debating the proposal for a law whose purpose, we are told, is to improve and adapt the existing legal order in order to give better protection to the rightful owner or owner of housing and real estate in the face of so-called untitled occupations, as well as to protect the neighbours of housing, the occupied property and the same citizen security. Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group considers that the phenomenon of untitled occupation of real estate and housing is certainly a serious problem and that it is appropriate to improve the protection of citizens in the possession and peaceful enjoyment of their property and possessions, but without neglecting the situation of special vulnerability in which untitled occupants may find themselves and the damage that the phenomenon could cause to neighbours and neighbours, as evidenced by both the Ombudsman and the Office of the Attorney General in Instruction 1/2020. As I told you, our parliamentary group believes that the improvement of the legal order for better citizen protection in the possession and peaceful enjoyment of their property or possessions should be studied, cannot give an opportunity to mislead the Government and its President - as we hear from certain political parties in this House when we debate the occupation without title - of criminal management, of inaction of government, of complicity with the okupases even by associating it in a xenophobic way with illegal economic immigration; nor that, although a serious problem, it is said that it reaches tens of thousands of cases, and even less - as is sometimes done in a malicious way - that these, which are sequestered by tens of thousands, mostly refer to homes, dwellings or second homes of small owners and tenants, because, as the latest reports of the judiciary and the Office of the Prosecutor point out, these occupations are held with the fingers of one hand. However, where we are faced with an insufficient response from the current legal order is in the criminal response for the premature precautionary recovery in the usurpations, which does not happen in the raids, and perhaps, I say, perhaps, in the answer on the civil road as to the legitimized ones to activate the prohibition of extraordinary possession set up with Law 5/2018, of reform of the Law of Civil Prosecution, to which our parliamentary group, the Basque Nationalist Party, contributed in its drafting and approval. In these two areas, both civil and criminal, we do consider that it is appropriate to study their improvement in the aspect that most worries the owner and possessor disturbed, which is in the immediate precautionary possessor recovery, although not necessarily as it is intended to articulate in the proposal discussed, which also leaves without mention in the way of the Criminal Prosecution Act the treatment to be given in cases of extreme economic vulnerability in which the occupant could be found without title against the will of his legitimate possessor, aspect that we consider fundamental and that we cannot leave aside once the validity of Decree-Law 11/2020 ends, that in no case, in the meantime, must be questioned except, in our opinion, in the improper, as we said at the time, lack of remuneration to the owner in some cases and that should be corrected in its procedure as a proposal for law. In another matter, and with regard to the punitive increase proposed for usurpation for the author who does not act under an organized group, we do not initially share it, unless appropriate, so that, under article 13 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the precautionary measure of launch can be adopted as first steps. We do not believe that a greater penalty should be imposed on usurpation than on trespassing, since the latter is the fundamental right to privacy - article 18 - and to the inviolability of the home, which is far greater than the guiding principle that protects the right to property, which is not regarded as a fundamental right in our Constitution. Nor do we see that also, and only for usurpation, a type is established such as acting in the form of a criminal organization, which triggers the penalty for trespassing, and that it is also intended to apply to those who, not being part of that organization, act on their advice to practice an optupation. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, since I have referred to the fundamental right of article 18, the privacy and inviolability of the domicile, we do not share with the proposition that, ex lege, the property or usurped housing cannot in any case have the status of residence of the occupant, in order to allow the eviction by the Security Forces and Bodies upon complaint of the owner and without judicial intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, the constituted legislator cannot change the constitutional concept of domicile in the terms in which it is described by his maximum interpreter, who is the Constitutional Court, and this is precisely what is intended in the proposal. With the same negative assessment, we approach the proposal to exclude from the scope of the trial of the jury the offence of trespassing. No reason for this is given to us in the explanatory statement, and when I say none is any, not even a sketch or something schematic. Finally - and I am finalizing, President - as regards what is proposed with regard to prohibited conduct or activities carried out by persons who have usurped the peaceful possession of a home, we do not share that they can be launched by the police officers of the authority without judicial intervention if the property has become their dwelling in the terms that the High Court has already pointed out, even promoting, as it is intended, that the action of the community of owners can be directed against the legitimate owner or possessor who did not promote actions to recover it, which we consider to be a legal contradiction, since if he does not, he will be understood to tolerate it, and it would no longer be a usurpation, but a precarious one. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and as a final conclusion, we will support the consideration of the initiative, considering our vote in favour of the end of the parliamentary procedure in view of the timely consideration of the various observations that we have made on a preliminary basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u75	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u76	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We could start this intervention by counting the cases of Enrique and his wife, Pilar, in Alicante; that of Rosa, in Castellón; Emiliano, in Hospitalet de Llobregat; Manuel and his three brothers in A Coruña; Elena, in Santa Cruz de Tenerife; Gema, in the neighborhood of Congress, in Barcelona; Elias, in Segur de Calafell, in Tarragona; Susana, in Barceloneta; Paola, in Seville; Antoni and Sebastián, in Cadiz and Malaga; Luis and Victor, in Fuenlabrada; María Dolores, in Torrevieja, and so we could continue to count cases far beyond my limited time of intervention, ladies and gentlemen. All of them are private, neither are they large foreclosures nor vulture funds or real estate funds; they are citizens who managed to acquire a home with the effort of their work, innocent victims of a criminal phenomenon that has only grown in our country. The total number of complaints of illegal occupation of real estate has been increasing: there were 10000 in 2016, 11 000 in 2017, 112 300 in 2018, 14 700 in 2019; only during the first half of 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, amounted to almost 8000, an increase of 5% over the same period of 2019, data from the Ministry of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen, not from dark real estate lobbies. Therefore, the issue before us is the right to private property - which has already been mentioned -, its protection and respect for good, which is absolutely fundamental in any advanced legal system, as expressed both in article 33 of the Spanish Constitution and in our Civil Code. It is essential not to be confused with what we are discussing today, which is not that of a limit to legally established property or that of evictions, not; the phenomenon we are talking about is that of illegal housing occupations, a phenomenon which, moreover, affects not only the legitimate owners - sometimes also people in vulnerable situations - but also all the neighbours of those occupations who suffer from the deterioration of living together and the increase of insecurity in their own homes. Denying this phenomenon of which the cold figures of the numbers provided by the Ministry of the Interior speak is as absurd as wanting to deny the sad reality of social exclusion in which many thousands of citizens of our country, citizens who have a right to decent housing and who, crisis after crisis, do not stop growing the number of them. But one right is not annulled with another, ladies and gentlemen, one right is no more important than another. The solution to the social crisis of housing for the most disadvantaged, for those who have remained behind, cannot be the occupation of housing for other citizens. The confrontation between rights that some of your ladies and gentlemen encourage - we just saw it a few minutes ago - is a legal and constitutional misconception. Because today, as two weeks ago, when we were talking about migrations, we cannot demagogy and populism with complex problems and try to solve them by violating other rights. In this, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations We can, you are just as populist as VOX, much chatter, but no solution. The solution to the social problem of housing is to make more social housing for rent. The mayor of Barcelona, Ada Colau, arrived in her day at the post, basing her promotion on solutions to the problem of housing in the city. However, all this time the fulfillment of his electoral promises in this matter is an erial. The reality is that the housing situation in Barcelona is much worse than that found when Mrs. Colau arrived. Colau promises to build 4,000 sheltered homes to provide shelter for the city's most needy families; it has only been able to deliver 800. The implementation of all projects has been delayed and many of them have not even begun to be developed. And you can't forget that Barcelona City Council owns 83 public buildings that are currently empty, where 6000 protected houses could be built. Why hasn't it been done? Well, I'm going to tell you, Mr. Mayor, because you're inept managers, inept managers, because as good populists you confuse dialogue with solutions, and you only know how to talk about it, the diagnosis, but you never solve anything. The only solution to social exclusion in housing is to build more social housing, not to encourage illegal occupation. There is a need for a law that hardens this criminal offence, of course, and also that effectively compensates families, and that you stop looking elsewhere. What has to happen in order for Podemos and the Socialist Party, the Government of Spain and the Government of Spain to set aside those who comply with the law and not always on the side of those who fail to comply with it? Some of these measures are provided for in the bill presented today by the People's Group, which has literally copied us from our previous legislature. But we believe that they are not enough, because neither the material aspect nor the focus of the text they have presented to us coincide with what we think. We want to talk about reforming, reforming article 245 of the Criminal Code, reforming the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security - something they do not mention -, giving the State Security Forces and Bodies more means, breaking that dynamic by which we must wait for a trial to end to recover the housing, punishing the great forbearers who fail to carry out their duty of surveillance and who do not denounce the ocupations..., but also working on the other side, the social one, which cannot be separated from this phenomenon and which must give solution to the most disadvantaged in our society. That is why we also want to include in the future law the flexibility of the requirements for the most vulnerable debtors to be able to cancel their debts, strengthen municipal social action services, evaluate the desirability of the Social Housing Fund becoming definitive or create a portal for housing aid, in which all administrations publish calls for aid with which they meet these housing needs. Because you can't understand and solve one thing without the other, Majoral. We can not only devote ourselves to one thing; we must devote ourselves to both. And within this law - which I already know you don't intend to support and it's a real mistake, I really tell you - is where you can include all those things you talk about, but then, when you're in government, you never reform. That's where you can really work on social assistance, with the laws, not shouting from this rostrum, Mr. Mayoral. So you don't help anyone. Maybe he thinks of his party, but I don't think he does either. And, of course, the most disadvantaged are not helped by shouting at all of us. It's over, President. Our duty is to protect the rights of citizens, of all citizens. Let us give up populist demagogies and be useful to the citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Let's make laws in favor of the citizens. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u77	Thank you. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. In September last year we discussed here a far-right proposal calling for more police and more powers for the police to solve one of the symptoms of a serious social problem such as housing. Today it is the People's Party that seeks to strengthen the repressive path and, more importantly, to magnify a problem for which we understand that there are sufficient and guaranteed legal instruments. The PP, it is clear, bets here also to extend the policy of fear, obviating - or being conscious, what is even worse - that fear is always the main food of fascism. I do not know whether this Sunday's election results in Catalonia will or will not reflect on the People's Party where it leads to assume the political and ideological agenda of ultra-Spanishism parafascist, but the results are evident. What they do in this matter both VOX and the People's Party is to seek to resolve the consequences of the problem without addressing the causes, and that, our judgment, is always a mistake or, worse, a conscious option to defend the maintenance of class privileges at the expense of social injustice and the deprivation of rights recognized to a part of society. Because what we are talking about is precisely this, the right to housing. You, who so much idolize your Constitution, intentionally forget article 47, which contains the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing, and which adds that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules to give effect to that right; and obviously you also forget article 33.2, which makes it clear that the social function of rights as that of private property will delimit its content. It seems that to the ultra right and to the ultra right what is least worrying is that there are homeless people, despite the millions of empty houses that exist in the Spanish State, only in Galicia more than 300 000. Is it not preferable to bet on an adequate public housing policy to resolve the dramatic situation that many people and families are going through? You, the People's Party, have the opportunity to do so where you govern but, at least in the case of Galicia, you do not do so; it does not seem at all to be one of the priorities of the government of Núñez Feijóo. They are not concerned that there are homeless people, nor is the serious problem of evictions affecting precisely the most vulnerable population. No, you, like the far right, prefer to criminalize poverty rather than solve it; you opt for repression rather than for the rational and just solution of this problem. In any case, it is clear that the ultra right of one or another party only knows how to address social problems in ticks. You make Goethe's sentence good every day: I prefer injustice to disorder. On that path, don't count on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u79	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] The next item is Mr Baldoví Roda.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Whenever we talk about okupations I like to remember an anecdote that happened to me. One citizen said to me: Baldo, what do we do with the problem of octopus? And I said to him, Here, in this town, how many octopus dwellings are there? None. So, where's the problem? No problem. I'm not saying it, the CIS says it. In the last CIS there is no problem for the citizens of housing, nowhere. Insecurity appears at post thirty-seven - thirty-seven. It is a first problem for 0.1 of the citizens, the second problem for 0.2 and the third problem for 0.3; total 0.6. Do you know what the main problems are? Health, crisis and economic problems, and unemployment. Then, in the posts four, five, nine and ten, the politicians, the actions and the bad behavior of the politicians. This proposal for a law is a clear indication of this concern expressed by citizens. We are facing an oversized problem. The right wing oversizes this problem to try to win a miserable handful of votes even though they punctuate coexistence. To compete, in this case the PP, clumsily - clumsily - with the far right. The real problem is that article 47 of the Constitution is not complied with: 'All Spaniards have the right to... a decent housing.... The public authorities will promote the necessary conditions... to make this right effective,...'. But what does PP, or VOX, do where it rules? Let's say I'm talking about Madrid: selling 3000 social flats to Goldman Sachs, to a vulture fund and, now that he has the chance to get them back, they won't get them back on a case-by-case basis. The role of the right, regardless of whether it's laliberal, right or right, is to make Robin Hood for the rich, to take away the people who have less to give to Goldman Sachs, who surely needs it much more than those poor people who were taken away from their homes. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I think you have not learned the Sunday lesson well. As that metaphor said, you move the tree clumsily and VOX collects the nuts of intolerance and injustice. Remember that in the end people prefer to vote for the original than a bad copy, and you are getting a photocopy face, even if you change your seat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u82	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the so-called Spanish justice has not been pleased that an independent majority has won the election and that it is led by the Republican Left. And since they can't beat us in the polls, they're looking to put us back in jail, and that's why they've resorted to the third degree of Catalan independence leaders. Freedom for political prisoners and prisoners and amnesty for all defendants. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by stressing the only thing I think we can perhaps agree with the proposing group on recognizing that there is a problem. From there I think the discrepancy will start, because what is the problem? It seems that the People's Party's concern is a kind of wave of incisiveness. As we have been listening for months to the representatives of the far right and of all those who do business with real estate speculation and the installation of alarms, it seems that one goes out to buy the bread and when he returns there is a criminal gang installed in the living room of his house. I believe that it is necessary to speak rigorously and, above all, to work rigorously, because this proposal will first suspend criminal law. Obviously, there are cases of illegal and illegitimate occupations against small owners. Unfortunately, there are always some, and I don't want to trivialize. However, it is not true that it is a plague. It is not true that families with one or two floors are faced with a dangerous threat of losing possession of their flat, and, in any case, the law already provides for appropriate mechanisms to recover such possession. The reality is that the data is obvious and denies the lies of the right. According to the last report of the DESC Observatory, in Catalonia 60% of the okupations are produced on floors that are in the hands of the banks, about 18% are of other large forks and only 10% are suffered by private owners. Gentlemen of the People's Party, who do you defend? Someone a little misconceptiond would come to the conclusion that they are fueling the fear of small-scale owners to justify reforms that only banks and large-scale companies benefit from. In this sense, it is very curious to see that one of the main points of its proposal for a law is that companies can proceed to apply the express eviction, which until now was reserved only for natural persons. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, who do you defend? And stop agitating the mantra that all the okupations are carried out by networks of criminals against small owners, it is not true either the first or the second. It has been studied and it is known that 70% of people who are forced to set up a flat do so with their family, and half of them have dependent children. In fact, in Barcelona, for example, 60% of those who come to okupar a flat is because they had unsuccessfully requested access to a flat through social rent. There is therefore no need to harden a crime that already has prison sentences and is carried out very marginally. Allow me to ask you for the third time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group: Who do you defend? You see, the big problem that Esquerra Republicana detects as far as housing is concerned is another very different one. This problem, unfortunately, is real, and it will not cost us a lot of work for citizens to share the analysis with us, because there are many families who are suffering it in their own flesh. Evictions are increasing day after day, the price of rent is absolutely insurmountable by a large part of the working population and access to housing is becoming a quimera. That's why the big problem is not criminal, the problem is social. And, obviously, it is not solved with more fines or more jail, it is only going to be solved with a bet decided by the public intervention in the housing market, thus avoiding the speculative vorage ending with one of the basic rights of any person, which is access to a decent housing. In this sense, the Generalitat of Catalonia has obtained the approval of measures that may be effective for the defence of the right to housing, for example the Royal Decree-Law 17/2019, of urgent measures to improve access to housing, which, by the way, the People's Party challenged before the Constitutional Court, and this repealed it, resolving it in a year, because when it is interested it resolves quickly; or the Royal Decree-Law 37/2020, of strengthening the protection of housing from the effects of the pandemic; or, for example, a proposal for a law that we present to amend the regulation of the Sareb and thus incorporate part of the housing park to the municipalities, since the large bag of empty floors we know has Sareb; or, for example, a tax that we have in Catalonia for the empty floors that are owned by legal persons; and, lastly, the Law 11/2020, adopted on September 18th, last year, with the price of the Squerra Republicana, Junts, the CUP and the Council of Congress of Congress, together with the Council of Deputies and the Council of Congress of Congress of Congress, together with the You appreciate the contrast of models, don't you? Some defend the right of banks and big companies with campaigns of fear, while others work with all the means at our disposal to improve the lives of the worst people. And I will end with one last fact: three out of every four empty floors in Catalonia are owned by BBVA, Sareb, Blackstone, Caixabank and Bankia, among these five more than 25,000 empty floors. And, with that which is falling, who is not indignant with this that does not come to give lessons of commitment to the right to housing, because they remember - and I repeat - the right to a decent housing is universal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u83	Thank you so much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Esteban Calonje has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, be my first words of understanding and accompaniment to all those compatriots who have seen how their home has been illegally occupied by criminals, criminals protected by this social communist government; owners who sometimes have to spend more than ten years of their full salary on the purchase of these homes and see how their dreams and illusions are taken unfairly. [[applause]] Since 2015, the number of complaints filed in Spain for illegal occupation of housing has increased by 50%. In 2020, there have been 40 complaints a day, 14,600 vilified families. Our Constitution recognizes in its article 33 the right to property as a fundamental pillar of our society. And what does this social-communist government do? Far from seeking solutions for these families who see their property stolen, it is dedicated to protecting these offenders on the basis of decrees, rather than protecting families who pay taxes to support this elephantic government. [[Applauds]] They betray them; families, by the way, of ordinary people, and not of millionaires, as the Left points out. They betray the workers and seek vows among the worst in our society. [[Applauds]] They bring, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, an initiative to try to tackle the problem, although what they want with this proposal is to get rid of political opportunism. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, the reform they are proposing is poorly structured, vague and imprecise, although Mr Gutiérrez of Citizens has just taken the credit, because he says that it has been copied. Do you not think that, in dealing with issues affecting the fundamental rights of our compatriots, they should have worked on it and proposed an ambitious reform? No, obviously they do not believe it, they have merely copied a proposal from a previous legislature that had expired. Of course, how will your political party defend the general interest of all Spaniards, when with their complicit silence they have made it possible to get to this situation? The disinterest shown by his formation with Mr Rajoy's government has no name. I remind you that in 2006 the People's Party announced tightening the penalties for these crimes and that in 2007 it proposed forty measures to put an end to the scourge of octopus. And do you know what your government was for? Not at all, because they did absolutely nothing. The truth is that it was during the Socialist Government, in 2010, when article 245 of the Criminal Code was amended, and prison sentences were imposed in cases of occupation with violence or intimidation, when until then they had only fines. And it is that you with your inaction have sometimes made the Socialist Party good. Don't forget, bipartisanism has brought us this misconception. Ladies and gentlemen, as you well know, in 2015, during the Rajoy government, the Organic Law 10/1995 is being amended, where some offences fall into the category of minor offences. Do you know what you did, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Take advantage of this reform so that occupation without violence will become a minor crime. Do you really think that with this bill of law we're going to believe you now? Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, not only did they comply with the above: on March 16, 2015, their government issued a resolution by which the People's Party maintains that the Okupas can register in the house they have illegally occupied. An okupa presents the invoice, for example, of the mobile phone sent to that home and gets the standard, and with that standard you can already receive social assistance. That is, they steal a home, they extort their owner, they extort neighbors, they hook up with their supplies and, as a reward, they receive the social assistance that citizens pay well with their taxes. In the meantime, families owned by tax-crushed occupied households. Coffee for everyone? No, coffee for criminals. But we're so good! We are so good!, that's right, with the criminals and the money of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] With honorable families, who are suffocated to be able to fulfill their legal obligations, with those nothings. They say in their statement of reasons that they will request a change of minor to serious infringement in the administrative field, something we cannot agree more, but they forget to mention it in the petitum, which reflects the lack of internal coherence of the proposal. But, of course, the lack of internal coherence in your party... From VOX we consider it extremely necessary to address this law. Maybe that's why they call us extremists, because we know the suffering of the Spaniards and we put ourselves on their skin. You know why? Because his suffering is ours. In VOX we have it clear: the okupas kicked in the ass, but immediately. [[Applauds]] In fact, last June VOX presented two proposals for law, which you know, in which we request to penalize illegal occupation with imprisonment, to offer tools to the Security Forces and Corpses to immediately evict and extend the protection of legitimate holders. And since November we have called for the creation of a subcommission to curb the opt-out. In VOX we are concerned, very concerned about these occupation crimes, despite the fact that other parliamentary groups are trying to deny the reality. And, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, it is indecent for them to show the partial assessment of their appeal to the Constitutional Court, when VOX has filed twelve, twelve, and none has been resolved to date. Because of political pressure, perhaps? And now answer me: Has it been the result of the chance that the Constitutional Court decided its appeal on the Catalan decree days before the start of the Catalan electoral campaign? VOX is a party of Spaniards, VOX is a party of families, not politicians. That is why we know that what needs to be done from the administration is to build the two million social housing that we lack to put ourselves on the average in the European Union. By the way, Mr Mayoral - well, Mr Mayoral is already gone - at the Madrid City Hall they promised four thousand homes and built sixty-four. [[Applauds]] They're just incapable of managing anything. What you are doing is diverting those obligations from the State to the families. That was also done by the People's Party when Mariano Rajoy decided to rescue the boxes with 64 billion euros, while abandoning people, families who could not bring a plate of food to their tables or pay their mortgages. And in 2012, after the rescue to the boxes...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u85	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u86	I'm done, Your Honor. In 2012, after the rescue to the boxes, there were 517 evictions a day, and in VOX we will not allow that situation to happen again. The government, when it wants, can. When we had to give a solution to the illegal immigration avalanche in the Canary Islands, we found luxury hotels, which the Spanish have paid for. And for the Spaniards, what? To the okupa, kick. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u87	Thank you very much. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Bravo Barco has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u88	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. In 2018 the People's Party government passed a law to end the illegal occupation of housing and two and a half years later, with the law they passed in force coming to Congress, claiming that there is an unsustainable situation of illegal occupation in Spain, asking us to act through a new legal reform. Has the situation changed both in two years and in order to have to relegate to this phenomenon? According to the Central Registry of Sentences, the commission of crimes of trespassing is anecdotal today: there were only 238 convictions in 2019. As you can see, reality does not correspond to the alarm you have generated. Your alarmism is mere propaganda that you have artificially created to try to wear down the government, but it is not based on any real facts. Let me say, Mrs Zurita, that the proposal for an organic law that you bring to the debate today is absolutely unnecessary and unnecessary, because the necessary legal instruments have already been articulated to effectively combat the phenomenon of illegal occupation. Whether it is a first home, a second residence or an empty home, the Government is already effectively combating this type of crime. I remind you, first of all, that we already have sufficient laws and prompt procedures to protect the owners and the legitimate owners, and secondly, that these laws have been improved for their effective implementation in their practical application with the approval of the instruction of the State Attorney General, adopted on 15 September, where I must remind you that prosecutors are called upon to urge judges to take precautionary measures for the immediate eviction of illegally occupied houses both in the case of trespassing and in the case of usurpation, and always with the intervention of the judge, unless the offence is flagrant, which is the only case in which the Constitution allows for police eviction without the need for judicial intervention. I would like to underline this, because it is a constitutional mandate that guarantees the right to effective judicial protection. And, ladies and gentlemen, pay attention to this fact, because, within our constitutional framework, only the judge can dictate the immediate eviction of a dwelling. I am telling you this because in your proposal for a law precisely the novelty you introduce is that of eliminating the figure of the judge from the eviction process. His proposal was therefore outside the Constitution. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you that we will vote against your proposal, because it would not pass a minimum constitutional review. [[The lady]] With regard to his proposal to prohibit the illegal occupant from registering in octopus housing, I must say that, again, we are faced with another unnecessary and unnecessary proposal, because the current legal order already prevents the registration of illegal occupants. Article 59.2 of the Regulations on Population and Territorial Demarcation of Local Entities confers on the municipalities the power to require their neighbours to provide documents that demonstrate the right title for their registration. Their proposals are therefore unnecessary and unnecessary, because they are covered by the current legal order, and the only new feature they include is the elimination of the judge's figure from the eviction process, which is unconstitutional. And in addition to this legal gazpacho, which seems to be taken from the B box of his party, they add the proposal to increase the prison sentences for these crimes, in an attempt to exercise a punitive populism. No, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of illegal occupations will not be solved by disproportionate penalties. The phenomenon of illegal occupation is combated by preventing the commission of the crime. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is being done by implementing measures to combat poverty, as is being done by the Government of Pedro Sánchez with the rise of the minimum wage, the approval of the minimum living income and the construction of social housing. And you did the exact opposite. In fact, I remind you that when you ruled, the number of illegal occupations tripled, from 3849 to 12,214 illegal occupations in just seven years, all because of the policies of right-wing cuts and precariousness, thus increasing inequalities and poverty. And let me tell you that not only did you not build public housing, but you also barely sold social housing to vulture funds. Ladies and gentlemen, in Madrid the judge told them to return the 5,000 social housing units that sold to the vulture funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not remove the figure of the judge again, pay attention to the judge, and return those houses, return the houses to the people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u90	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group on the establishment of maximum time limits for resolution in constitutional processes. Mrs Olona Choclán has the floor for the presentation of the initiative. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak before the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group who spoke before my speech to tell you that listening to a Member of the Socialist Party with a prepared speech and without insults is truly a parliamentary delight. My congratulations, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Today, the VOX Parliamentary Group is submitting to this House a non-drafting bill which aims, among other things, to prevent political corruption within the Constitutional Court. In what way? Introducing a series of reforms in its specific regulations that provide the twelve judges who make up the High Court with a course of certainty that eliminates the possibility of political interference at present. In what way? At the time of the resolution of constitutional proceedings, in the decision on such proceedings, which, according to the agreement of the parties that have proceeded to appoint the judges of the High Court according to their party affiliation, may be preceded in some cases by their resolution or kept in a drawer, as is currently the case. By adopting this initiative, we will be able to protect the credibility of the Constitutional Court, the supreme interpreter of the Spanish Constitution, and we will avoid the suspicion, more or less well-founded, of political interference, when, for example, it has been ten years since the appeal lodged against the Abortion Act has been resolved; as previously mentioned, it puts forward the resolution of the Popular Party's appeal against the Catalan charter decree, and, incidentally, a few days before the start of the Catalan campaign, it partially estimates this appeal, or, in the case of VOX, it does not solve only one of the twelve appeals that we have lodged in some cases of extraordinary relevance. He pointed out that the fifty-two of VOX in Congress have lodged these twelve appeals in just twelve months, and, in the case of the wildest attacks on our rule of law, we have done so in a solitary manner, because only VOX has appealed to the Constitutional Court the two states of alarm decreed, clearly unconstitutional, under an essential premise: it is clear that the fight against the pandemic requires the adoption by the Government of the nation of extraordinary measures, but it is equally evident that the adoption of necessary measures to combat the pandemic in no way can lead to the degradation of our democracy being carried out by this Government. You cannot violate the constitutional order, and that is what is happening in Spain by a totalitarian government dominated by the extreme left, which has kidnapped the Spaniards under a state of emergency covered by time of earthquakes, with the complicity of all in this House, except that of the fifty-two deputies of VOX and Isidro, the deputy of Forum Asturias, against reports of the State Attorney's Office which the Government keeps hidden and for which we have reported to the Government before the Supreme Court, the Dispute-Administrative Chamber, last week. [[applause]] This is the party to which not a few voices in this Chamber try to place outside the constitutional character; this is the party to which they unworthyly dare to assimilate the bildutatras, those of the shooting in the back of the neck. [[Applauds]] If the Constitutional Court had resolved the appeal we lodged in March against the first state of alarm decreed, and the one lodged in October, when it decreed the second state of covert emergency, it turns out that we would now have certain limits to which the Government can hold, to which the Spaniards can hold in the exercise of that absolute power that is exercising over citizenship. But it has not resolved, and this inhibition on its responsibility strongly contrasts with the actions of other constitutional courts in countries around us, such as the actions of the German Federal Constitutional Court, which had already issued very important decisions on 8 April 2020 to set clear thresholds for the limitation of rights and freedoms. But if his contrasts with the actions of other courts in the international arena, it is more painful to contrast the inhibition on the important responsibilities of the Constitutional Court, despite the important salaries he receives, despite his privileged position with the courage shown by other courts of justice in Spain in resolving matters of extraordinary social and political impact. I cannot stop in all cases, I will mention two as more recent: the precautionary suspension and subsequent annulment by the Catalan TSJ of the Catalan decree that annuls the call for elections and its delay to May, or the most recent case of the precautionary suspension by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country of the illegal restrictions on hospitality that are being agreed in each and every of the autonomous communities of Spain. [[Applauds]] And why, ladies and gentlemen, is our Constitutional Court, to whom this year we are going to pay 27 million euros to all Spaniards and which is in such a privileged position, inhibiting its responsibilities? The answer is very simple: because it can, because the current legislative framework allows it to act with absolute discretion, and discretion is the foreground of arbitrariness, and thus leads to political corruption. [[Applauds]] And to avoid it precisely VOX brings today a parliamentary initiative that, with concrete measures, will end this possibility of political corruption, such as the setting of a maximum and mandatory period of three months for the resolution of remedies and questions of unconstitutionality since the interposition and, also, the introduction of an accelerated remedy against states of alarm, exception and site, and against their extensions. This initiative is good for the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary and urgent; the problem is that this initiative is not good, nor is it necessary, and much less urgent for the political parties present here, who are the ones to decide, who are the ones to approve. I cannot fail to refer to the amendments that have been tabled to this initiative registered by the VOX Group by only two political parties, Citizens and the People's Parliamentary Group. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, but clearly, I will tell you that your amendments are a real shame. Citizens are proposing the adoption of an institutional declaration to set up a working group to study the necessary reform measures, and the People's Parliamentary Group is proposing the creation of a subcommittee to study the necessary measures. But how do they have the little shame of saying that it takes time to study appropriate reform measures? Nothing can expect from you Spaniards, because they are part of the problem, and believe me, the resignation of a building will not deceive you. [[Applauds]] He ended up addressing the judges of the Constitutional Court: get rid of their shackles, because the bill that is being passed on to them by the political parties that have appointed them includes the destruction of our democracy. VOX does not ask for a favor, VOX only requests that they comply with their constitutional obligation and resolve. I conclude, Madam President: the life and prestige of the institutions depends, both on what they do and on what is done about them. Francisco Tomás y Valiente, President of the Constitutional Court, killed by ETA on 14 February 1996. The VOX Parliamentary Group dedicates this initiative to its memory. Thank you. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Olona. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Bal Francés is speaking first of all, by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u93	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we see here a non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group entitled non-legislative proposal against the Constitutional Court. It is a non-law proposal that, under the appearance or apparent pretension of trying to strengthen the Constitutional Court, as we have seen in Mrs Olona's speech, and I say this with all respect and affection, seeks nothing more than to criticize the Constitutional Court and put it into evidence. We have tried, yes, to fix it. It is a good idea to put forward this study on the Constitutional Court, but of course I am not going to admit in any way that the amendment tabled by Citizens, such as that tabled by the People's Party, are amendments by parliamentary groups that are not ashamed, what I have just heard from Mrs Olona's lips. [[Applauds]] I assure you that we have a lot of embarrassment and the colleagues in the People's Parliamentary Group also have it, because here we come to this, here we come to propose things, come to negotiate, come to agree, come to understand, in short. Before coming here to present a non-law proposal, what needs to be done is to study the law, this is the most important thing, and even the Constitution. Look, you point out that the Constitutional Court is a body that by its appointment and by its number of judges is contaminated with political interference, but, look, it is article 159 of the Constitution that says how the judges of the Constitutional Court are appointed. Do you want to change the Constitution through a non-law proposal? Really? Have you studied it? [[Applauds]] Of the four points raised by your non-law proposal, the first, that of the three-month deadline, is a toast to the sun, that is, it is the typical deadline for making decisions when it turns out that there are only twelve judges of the Constitutional Court and you speak nothing of the provision of personal and material means at the service of the Constitutional Court and, moreover, do not establish any consequences for the failure to comply with that three-month deadline. Therefore, it is a useless measure. The second is completely superfluous. You say about amparo appeals that only those of constitutional relevance can be resolved, but if Article 41 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court already says so! Only constitutionally relevant amparo appeals are dealt with, and 97% of amparo appeals are not allowed, and only 2.41% of these amparo appeals are estimated. In short, do not come with excuses for reforming the Constitutional Court because first you have to read, first you have to study, first you have to do your homework, and you are not used to working in this House. This is what's going on. [[Applauds]] We agree on an accelerated resource, but an accelerated resource, in what cases? Only during the states of alarm, emergency and siege, which are right for you now to attack the government? Well, look, we have offered you with our amendment that this accelerated remedy could be given in those cases where delay could cause the remedy to lose its legitimate purpose, for causing damage to impossible or difficult reparation, which you know, Mrs Olona, is the criterion laid down by the Law of the Dispute-Administrative Jurisdiction, but not even for that reason. Finally, they distinguish between the fundamental rights violated during the states of alarm, exception and place and the others, that is, for you there are rights that deserve better protection and others that, however, are considered as second level. I'm going to set an example for everyone to understand. For you it is more important for the Constitutional Court to rule on a perimeter confinement than on illegal detention outside the states of alarm, emergency and siege. And this is legal nonsense, this is a completely disproportionate measure. By the way, in his speech I miss a fifth point in his non-law proposal, which is that the Constitutional Court always handles VOX's appeals first and always gives them the right in substance, because you are always right. [[Applauds]] They've forgotten that. Yes, we believe that this working group should be set up, we agree with the People's Party on this point, we believe that there should be an accelerated procedure, but not in the cases that you point out, and we finally believe that what really matters is to enhance the task of implementing the Constitutional Court, by being able to call directly on the State Security Forces and Bodies, and not simply by asking the Government to cooperate. The Constitutional Court was the roadblock against separatism, and it would have been very good if, without having to rely on the Government of the nation, direct assistance could have been sought from the State Security Forces and Bodies. This is what we propose with absolute seriousness and without any kind of shame. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, any proposal to reform the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court is of enormous democratic significance, because the Constitutional Court is in fact the fundamental guarantor of our rule of law, even the last guarantee, as you say, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. But at this point I think it is important to remember the following, because we have to properly situate the role of the Constitutional Court in an advanced democracy. It seems to me very important to remember, in addition to that of the Constitutional Court, the responsibility of political leaders, Political leaders must respect the Constitutional Court, the rule of law. That is why I would like to recall what happened in 2015, when the Constitutional Court quickly decided to declare the independence declaration of the Catalan Parliament null and void. So, what happened, ladies? What happened after that Constitutional Court ruling and all that came after? For it happened that the independence leaders, some of whom sit here, skipped all the rulings of the Constitutional Court, systematically failed to comply. So, what happened too? It happened that the government of the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party, from 2018, when it agreed to a motion of censure with those leaders, began to say that all that had happened, including the breaches of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, was part of what they now call political conflict. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, at this point, why are you proposing a reform of this stalemate in the form of a non-law proposal? Why do you trust the Social Communist Government to carry out this legislative reform? But did you not just say, Mrs Olona, a few minutes ago here that you regard that government as a totalitarian government? And you want that government to make this reform? At that point we, although you have not accepted it, propose the creation of a subcommission within the Constitutional Commission to do this in the right way. Thirdly, on the content, on the speeding up of resolutions, this is very complex. Mrs. Olona, I want to remind you of your own contradiction. You a year ago here, in the proportion of United We can eliminate the maximum time limits in the Criminal Prosecution Act, enthusiastically supported the elimination of the maximum time limits. It's a contradiction, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] It's a contradiction. Let's be consistent. And on the remedies of amparo, Your Honor, you know that this is a constitutional right. Let us also be careful and consistent. And on the regulation of the accelerated unconstitutionality resource, we agree. Yes, it seems relevant to us, let's study this regulation. Fourthly - and I want to end this fourthly - there is confidence in the Constitutional Court. Mrs Olona, it is that you, instead of coming here today to call for a reform of the Constitutional Court, have come to delegitimize the Constitutional Court. [[Applauds]] Mrs Olona, a few minutes ago you just accused, nothing more and nothing less, than political corruption in the Constitutional Court. I repeat, you have accused the Constitutional Court of political corruption, and then you wanted to end a tribute to Francisco Tomás and Valiente. Of course, I join in all the tributes to Francisco Tomás and Valiente, but, Mrs Olona, you have previously placed him in political corruption, you have called him corrupt. [[Applauds]] He called Francisco Tomás and Valiente corrupt, a great figure that we all respect. No, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Olona, let us make a reform - of course it is good, it is necessary - of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, but let us do it well, quietly and listening to all the parties, starting with the Constitutional Court itself. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The truth is that it is not a good idea to propose to this Government to amend a law such as that of the Constitutional Court. It is not a good idea, because surely they will bring a law to disappear, because in the end what their partners want and, therefore, how they listen to their partners, they are able to bring the law not with what you say - in many things I give you the reason, for example, as regards deadlines and other issues - but they will bring it to eliminate the Constitutional Court, which is the political objective of some who support them at this time. [[applause]] Look at the one they've got to do with the whole famous democracy; to give them these ideas. Regarding full democracy, one heard Mr. Churches before being in government and, what did he say? For he spoke well of Russia, he spoke well of Venezuela, he took reeds in the herriko taverns and said that Catalan politicians were political prisoners. After the government, what did Mr. Iglesias do? Well, the same thing, he hasn't changed his mind. What did the president of the government say before? The president of the government said that Podemos could not sleep, that Catalan politicians were political prisoners and that, of course, Spain was a democracy and that there could not be a government that defended Catalans as political prisoners. So, who's changed their mind here? The President of the Government of Spain has changed, not Mr Iglesias. Therefore, who will have to ask for explanations? To the President of the Government of Spain. And what about this? That all the ministers come out to say: full democracy, full democracy. But if you have him sitting next to you, don't tell us, tell him. And if you don't want to say it and you think you're wrong, you know what you have to do. But what's going on? That here the group of fifty-three, that are Podemos, Euskal Herria Bildu and Esquerra, commands. Therefore, we will have to continue to endure moving five floors a week, we will have to continue to endure the tables called for negotiations and everything it takes to be in La Moncloa, and that Mr Iglesias can say that there is no full democracy in Spain. That's what we have. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u98	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u99	We do not know whether we like GNP or the amendments that have been tabled to it less. In any case, what we are against is the political use that has been made of the Constitutional Court in recent years, as a ram against the aspirations of our people to be able to vote freely, to be able to gain independence under democratic conditions. In 2010 the Constitutional Court gave a coup d'état judicial - and independence did not say so, says a prestigious constitutionalist like Javier Pérez Royo - against the status endorsed by the people of Catalonia. Not content with that, after, in 2015, he was given even more power with a reform promoted by the absolute majority of the PP, he was given more powers to enforce his sentences directly and to be able to sanction public office. By the way, in its day the PSOE committed itself to repealing that counter-reform. And at this time, since the new statute, about forty laws or decrees of Parliament have been suspended in whole or in part, and they refer to issues of social sensitivity and urgency such as housing, energy poverty or equality between men and women in the workplace. The decree regulating rents is also appealed to the Constitutional Court. In short, giving more power to the judges, which is what the GNP or the amendments to the GNP are proposing, does not seem right to us. It is the modern way of the coup d'état through the judges and through the media, who create and misrepresent the stories. That is why we find it equally shameful that the PSOE, which, at the time, committed itself to de-judicializing the Catalan conflict, did not take a single step in this direction. And this very week we had the prosecution's appeal against the third degree to our political prisoners and prisoners. It is not the way to give more power to judges; it is an even more conservative stage, if any, than most of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u100	Thank you, Mr. Botran. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Valencians know a lot about these delays in the Constitutional Court. We talked about the house a moment ago. Well, we have resorted to two laws by the People's Party itself in 2017: the Energy Poverty Act and the Social Function of Housing Act. Three years have passed when people's lives could have improved, and they are still in that judicial limbo that does not allow us to act in favor of the people who are worst going through it. We have already seen it under Valencian civil law that the Constitutional Court itself fell. Today VOX brings us a PNL on justice the same day a rapper enters prison for singing, with more or less grace, some verses. Today this right wants us to debate about justice, about the Constitution, and we are still waiting for them to condemn the Sunday act, where more than three hundred neo-Nazis concentrated on the streets, arm up, with fascist music and chachacha dances, blaming the Jewish people for all the evils of the world. Are you going to condemn this act, gentlemen of VOX? All this happens because also the PSOE and We can, instead of amending all this, make statements, tweets, in short, intentions. And they're not worth tweets or more or less empty statements, they're only worth pardon or amnesty. That is why since Compromís we have joined the cry that today calls for freedom for Pablo Hasel. [[Applauds]] We know that when this comes to European justice there will be nothing left to do, and that is why sometimes in this House we have to say, when will we stop being ridiculous and, as Amnesty International says, will we repeal the criminal offences of the Criminal Code that limit artistic expression or will we repeal the Mordaza Act? In this GNP we are talking about justice, about the Constitution, that sometimes justice cannot be done because of delays; but justice, the Constitution, is respect for people and their dignity. You, the ladies and gentlemen of VOX, complain - and rightly so - about the stones you received in the campaign - probably made you part of the campaign - which I am the first to condemn, but you sometimes in this House throw dialectic stones at the Constitution and against respect for people. Yesterday, an institutional representative of VOX dedicated himself to publicly harassing a trans person by referring in masculine terms to MP Carla Antonelli. How are we going to avoid aggression, how are we going to avoid, in short, that environment against if you do it yourself from the institutions, throw those stones of disrespect to some people? If I from today will call Mrs. Macarena Olona Don Macareno, or Mr. Santiago Abascal will call you Mrs. Santiaga, it would seem a lack of respect. And so am I. That is why I ask you not to contribute to the pain of so many trans people with their homophobic aggressions. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, fascism is not joy, it is hatred, it is problems of coexistence and it is, above all, violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuet Pujals has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u103	Thank you, President. If we lived in a full democracy, Pablo Hasel would not be the new political prisoner of the Spanish state. Pablo, we want you on the street! [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Court and its law have become in recent decades a partisan battlefield, as this VOX proposal today continues to demonstrate to us. The original sin of this problem lies in the bipartisan conception of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court today is more a cancerber of the 1978 constitutional regime than an arbitrator of an advanced democracy. Catalans and Catalans know what we are talking about because in recent times we have tried their action in our flesh. Or, is it not true that before the statute ruling the composition of the Constitutional Court was being changed until it had the appropriate majority to carry out the Statute of Catalonia? Or, isn't it true that in 2015, when the legislature was dying - I say it by the spokesman of the People's Party who said how the PP was doing well -, at the last minute and at a discount it was brought to this House A law amending the Law of the Constitutional Court without dialogue, without consensus and express way and in a week changed the law? For what? Because independence was growing in Catalonia and it was necessary to prepare for the hammer of heretics in which the Constitutional Court became in that period. Very democratic, People's Party. Or, isn't it true that in 2017 the Constitutional Court changed its jurisprudence? Before, when a parliament made a law, the Constitutional Court after the debate analysed it and declared it constitutional or non-constitutional. But now things are different, now we speak before the parliamentary debate, with a previous censure that decides what can or cannot be discussed in parliaments. [[Applauds]] So, all those things have been happening. But well, maybe someone thought that now VOX, as a new party, was going to bring us some proposals to get out of this bipartisan core. No, because VOX with its proposal makes the situation even worse. Because, what's VOX trying to do? Press the Constitutional Court to, for example, with the Abortion Act to legislate against women's rights. That's what VOX is implying. [[Applauds]] Or, for example, that the Constitutional Court criminalize the management of the pandemic. Look, the pandemic management is critical, but it's not criminalizing, what VOX has been trying to do throughout this management. Therefore, behind the VOX proposal there is no solution, there is reaction. Ms. Olona said that we shouted at the Constitutional Court judges to free themselves from the shackles of the People's Party and the PSOE. She needed to shout, Miss Olona, live the chains, because that's what brings VOX, new chains against women and against freedoms. Not much less. We're going to vote against it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u104	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Santiago Romero has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia en Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u105	Thank you, Madam President. In order to speed up the time limit for the resolution of appeals before the Constitutional Court or to make it difficult for citizens to access amparo, it would be appropriate to present a proposal for a law, rather than a non-law proposal, maximum when the reform of the Constitutional Court Act has already introduced the requirement of justification for the special constitutional significance that we are today proposing as if it were a novelty. In addition, the Constitutional Court had ruled on the state of alarm as early as 2016, and had ruled on VOX's appeals by dismissing the previous precautionary measures they had requested. Indeed, what you are proposing is to give priority in the proceedings of the Constitutional Court to the appeals you submit, specifically to your appeals challenging the state of alarm and showing your constant denial of the gravity of the pandemic because you attribute it to a political conspiracy. This GNP does not mention the real problems of justice, such as the lack of effectiveness of politicized justice. Today, we are struck by the new interference in the political activity of the president of the High Court of Justice of Castile and León disqualifying the party that fought the most against the dictatorship, for democracy and for freedom. Or we are scandalized by the mediation of the judge between the People's Party and its ex-Secretary for the latter to be called to justice. Or it causes us a great deal of scandal to get a singer into prison solely because of the content of the lyrics, no matter how bad the songs are. That is to say, the Constitutional Court also suffers today from the abduction of the right, it is another constitutional body to which the mandate has expired, is awaiting renewal in a third of its composition since 2019. In the meantime, they bring us a GNP to speed up the processing of their resources, once again arrogating VOX more rights than they recognize the rest of their compatriots and obviate the demand for compliance with the constitutional norm of renewal. This permanent abduction by the right of the constitutional organs, using them for their own interests, causes dissatisfaction of the citizens and the questioning of the democratic quality. This is the democratic abnormality that scandalizes them so much, that according to the latest Eurobarometer surveys 53% of Spaniards are not satisfied with the functioning of democracy. It is obvious to most citizens that we live in an improved democracy, what is not true is that we live in a dictatorship or a totalitarian state as we have been tired of saying both VOX and the People's Party since this government was formed and since the pandemic began. [[Applauds]] Because democratic quality also depends on the timely renewal of constitutional bodies and respect for fundamental rights. There are obviously issues that affect the work of the Constitutional Court and the guarantee of fundamental rights. For example, having a head of State outside the scope of justice and that justice refuses to investigate him, while the justice of another country does, affects fundamental rights; having members of the active State Security Forces and Corpses who grossly attack this legislature for presenting initiatives that they do not like or beat up citizens or pursue politicians for the benefit of one party and to the detriment of others, obviously also affects fundamental rights, as well as having too many retired soldiers who yearn for Francoism and massacres or Nazis who yearn for Hitlerian divisions. There are 150 singers and artists imprisoned in Spain for tweeting or making songs and the one who had to avoid that was the Constitutional Court and that is the serious problem we have with the Constitutional Court that is permissive when fundamental rights are disregarded. Thus, we come to situations in which the United Nations has had to draw attention to Spain for the dispossessed without housing alternatives or for the cuts in essential supplies in the Royal Cañada. Every time the European Court of Human Rights decides to condemn Spain, it is a failure of the Constitutional Court, which has not corrected a violation of a fundamental right. And 62 have been sentenced in recent years to Spain for not respecting a fair trial, or for ill-treatment, or for unjustified use of force by dissolving demonstrations against cuts, or by sending people to jail for burning a picture of the head of state. In any case, we have to worry that this does not happen with the Constitutional Court, that it does not embarrass us in Europe for not being able to defend the fundamental rights of the Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u106	Mr. Santiago, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u107	The corporal. We will vote against this GNP because what you are asking for is a privileged channel for VOX's appeals before a constitutional court pending renewal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u108	Thank you, Mr. Santiago. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Elorza González has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u109	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to confess that I share the speech of the spokesman for Citizens because he has given an answer along the lines of what he had thought, an obvious technical-legal response, which completely disrupts the ultra-right initiative with key legal arguments. The Constitution and the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court are simply to be read, and especially to recall that it was a Socialist Government, by the hand of RodríguezZapatero, which in 2007 presented the reform of that Organic Law of the Constitutional Court to speed up and consider the conditions of admissibility of this avalanche of amparo remedies and also to incorporate this requirement of special constitutional significance. That initiative therefore responds from every point of view to this misconception. I also liked the final part, just the final part, of Mrs. Uriarte because yes, she did. What happens is that there has been some other intervention at the beginning which, on the other hand, seems to me to be wrong because, Mrs Uriarte, I am very fond of telling you that when we talk about democratic regeneration, it is not about changing the facade or changing the seat, when we talk about democratic regeneration, it is about changing the discourse, the moral behaviors and the liberated. Therefore, do not lecture the government of the Socialist Party and the United Nations. [[Applauds]] What's behind this ultra-right initiative, VOX? Quite clearly, there is a new attempt to destabilise the democratic system in Spain. How do they do it permanently? As they did a few days ago in the campaign in Catalonia, on the basis of an absolutely populist discourse; a speech with phrases made very striking, very round, very populist and, at the same time, very authoritarian. In this case, what is it to do with this initiative? It is a matter of delegitimizing the Constitutional Court. And how are they doing it? As they have been doing for a long time, because the ultra-right, VOX, has repeatedly called for the removal of the Constitutional Court - there is nothing more to see. VOX has said that the Constitutional Court has been an accomplice to a coup d'état of this Government with the declaration of the state of alarm. The far right a few months ago in the Madrid Assembly called the Constitutional Court 'prostitutional court'. The extreme right wing, VOX, has repeated - right here he has said - that it is a court subject to corruption, that it is a court kidnapped by political parties. It is about destabilizing with a populist discourse and delegitimizing an institution that is the maximum guarantee of the Spanish Constitution. They are not with the Constitution, they do not defend the Constitution, but they are at another game. And in the background this initiative also marks, if you read it well, your obsessions with the false defense of freedom. No, they're licentious. What do they mean by freedom when they go to court with amparo when the state of alarm is declared to save lives? What do you mean by freedom? Very clear, the freedom of the golf club and others to manifest in the Salamanca neighborhood and the freedom of 23 May to mount a caravan of cars throughout Spain to collapse and generate more contagion problems. Irresponsible. And what is VOX doing in this destabilization campaign with this initiative? Well, pull the chiringuitos, the VOX chiringuitos. Anyway, the Christian Lawyers. Isn't that a little chiringuite about retired military retirees? Isn't it a little chiringuito of these who take a walk from time to time, like those of last weekend in Madrid, in authentically fascist, Nazi attitudes? They legitimize these kinds of manifestations. What's this about, then? It will destabilize democracy and it will also do so at the expense of the rest of the parties on the right and the right is left. We will therefore, of course, vote against this initiative because it is absolutely clear that the objective is to attack the democratic system. You are using your group, and you have your right because you have 53 deputies, to file up to eleven appeals in the Constitutional Court, even against the Minor Sea Protection Act in Murcia, not to mention euthanasia and the Education Act. Everything you don't like is repeated and when you don't give them reason, as it seems you're not going to give it to them in connection with the abortion law because you're deeply anti-feminist, you complain.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u110	Mr. Elorza, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u111	I'm done. And when they do not accept their amparo resources related to the royal decrees to defend the state of alarm they also complain because - I repeat - their freedom is pure liberticide. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u112	Thank you, Mr. Elorza. Mrs Olona Choclán, do you accept any of the amendments? By your intervention, I understand that it is not.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u113	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u114	The non-legislative proposal will be voted on in its terms. Thank you very much. - the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) in common (CGE) in relation to the sexual and reproductive rights of women. [[File number 162/000532]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u115	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, concerning the sexual and reproductive rights of women. Mrs Fernández Castañón has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u116	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today I come here to talk about women and before I get into this matter I wanted to send a sisterly hug to one of them, to Carla Antonelli, to the Member of the Madrid Assembly, Carla Delgado Gómez. Carla, from woman to woman, we're with you. Apart from the transphobia of institutions, of the streets and of our lives. It is a pride as a public representative to come up to this rostrum to talk about rights, to advance in our sexual and reproductive rights, to recognize, thank and celebrate the struggles that precede us, the last call of the Freedom Train, which sent home a minister who wanted to return us to dark times. It is a pride to do so together with the Argentine pibas, with the women of El Salvador, with the Irish feminists, with the brave women who go out on the street in Poland or with the Hungarian women who answer to Orban. Rights are either for all or not rights. The struggle of women goes beyond any delimitation or border and that is the perspective of this non-law proposal, the prospect of never forgetting that we are talking about all women. Sex education to decide, birth control to not abort, abortion to not die. With this maximum we present this GNP, that of guaranteeing sex education in our schools, as well as that of health personnel with a gender perspective to remove the stigma to abortion, whatever stigma it has, which still makes today those who accept conscientious objection for pure ignorance or disinterest. Thanks to all the professionals who have been practicing voluntary interruptions of pregnancy for years, assisting women in the exercise of their rights and enduring the harassment of those who do not respect, who occupy the public street to coerce, insult and stigmatize without consideration or empathy, because, ladies and gentlemen, this process is not simple and respect for freedom and dignity should be above any consideration and belief, and let us not say any sectarianism anymore. They harass clinics - go on a Saturday to the Dator clinic, a pioneer in defending our sexual and reproductive rights - harass women workers and harass women who come to these clinics. In 2019, sixty-two organizations reported that, since the entry into force of Law 2/2010, more than eight thousand women had been incriminated, insulted, coerced or threatened in some way. We want to guarantee the right to free, safe and free abortion within the public health system - I say this with full respect for the competences of the autonomous communities - and to that end, we must amend the 2010 Act. It is necessary for women to cease to be regarded by law as subjects with a lower capacity to work. We are forced to reflect for seventy-two hours, once we have made the decision to interrupt our pregnancy. There is no other case in our legal system where we have to wait a while to confirm the decision we have taken. In no other intervention to which I can submit myself I am obliged to reflect, once I have decided to submit to that intervention. On our sexual and reproductive rights the law questions us, doubting our will and our determination. That requirement says more of the legislators then than of the women we are. [[The lady]] We must also guarantee the autonomy of 16- and 17-year-old women in order to be able to voluntarily terminate their pregnancy because, at present, the health majority is in the 16-year-old age, except in order to be able to abort, together with assisted reproduction and clinical trials. This goes against equity and has a profound negative impact on these young people and, moreover, has no scientific or medical sense. It was done only to satisfy the most ultra-conservative sector of society because, in fact, according to the ACAI study, which is the Association of Accredited Clinics for the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, between January and September 2014, it was already shown that young women aged 16 and 17 who did not inform their legal guardians accounted for only 0.44% of the total number of abortions and that the causes they claimed ranged from family helplessness to sexual violence. What does it mean, except for the loss of autonomy and rights, and what basis does it have, if not patriarchal and macho, to reduce their decision-making capacity? After all, not a century ago women in Spain did not vote. In fact, it was in the mid-twentieth century when it was recognized that the rights were not citizens, with or without human rights. A right has to be informed and we want those who come because they have decided to abort, to have the information to decide freely whether they want their abortion to be an instrument of medicine, not to have to be alone for hours with much pain because they have not given them any more options, to be able to choose it in an informed manner. We are talking about rights because they are being violated, and here I would like to refer to some of the amendments that have come to us. We're going to be very clear. From feminist thinking we know that it is key to name these violations, these aggressions, because if they are not named, if they are not identified and if they are not legislated, they become within the realm of the intimate. And no, reproductive exploitation does not belong to privacy; no, forced sterilization does not belong to privacy; no, forced abortion does not belong to privacy, and no, obstetric violence does not belong to privacy. [[Applauds]] All these are manifestations of Machist violence. If we want to guarantee rights, we must locate those violations. It's nothing else to do what the WHO says and it's nothing else to do what the Cedaw says. I will not extend to disaggregating what Cedaw says because we hope we can amend this law to comply with its object. We're on our way. United We can make it clear: the extension of the rights framework is unstoppable. And I close with a maximum of the feminist struggle of which we are daughters, granddaughters and great-granddaughters: we parmos, we decide. Because they were, let's move on. Let's keep going and do it absolutely for all of us. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández Castañón. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] In defence of the amendments put forward by the groups, Mrs Giménez Giménez intervenes, first of all, by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u118	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an initiative that addresses motherhood, the right of everyone to decide freely and responsibly about their sexual and reproductive health. We are talking about the guarantee of medical services, whether we choose to continue with a pregnancy or whether we choose to interrupt it, taking into account the recommendations made to us by Cedaw and the World Health Organization. [[The lady]] It should also be borne in mind in this regard that the National Sexual and Reproductive Health Strategy of 2011, as determined by Law 2/2010, has a duration of five years. Therefore, it should have been updated as early as 2016 and should also have been subject to the biannual review established by the strategy itself. From Citizens we believe that further progress must be made in ensuring the freedom of decision of all women regarding their motherhood, and that the voluntary interruption of their motherhood can occur in the cases set out in Organic Law 2/2010 in a safe manner and with all medical guarantees. But, of course, we must be realistic, and the main thing in this area is to deal adequately with prevention policy. Hence the need to redouble efforts in affective-sexual education, prophylaxis campaigns and access to contraceptive methods, in order to avoid, in all possible cases, unwanted pregnancies. It should also be borne in mind that there are women who are in situations of greater vulnerability to this reality and, above all, women who are minors. Sexual and reproductive rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not only about the voluntary termination of pregnancy, but also about the possibility of those women who decide freely to have offspring before a pregnancy, who want to have it and who can move on. What we also need to put in place are the measures that facilitate motherhood for those women who, under certain circumstances, have it most difficult. In this respect, Citizens has always been a party that has defended the right of all people to form a family and, above all, we have demonstrated it with changes in our legal system that have been substantial, because we must remember that we have recently modified, thanks to the proposal of Citizens and the support of this whole House, that disabled women are not forced to be sterilized, of which I am totally proud. [[The lady]] We want to insist on the need to activate active policies that really promote birth, support families in accordance with their diversity and specific circumstances, in order to ensure that all their members, and especially the children who are part of them, can be developed with full guarantees. However, there is a substantial aspect to this legislation, which is for which we have introduced an amendment, an improvement, and that is that the initial drafting of Law 2/2010 envisaged the possibility of minors being able to access the voluntary interruption of pregnancy without the knowledge of their parents. In Citizens we believe that simply because of the fear of facing a situation in their family, for generating certain disgusts in their own family, what we do not have to do is to make it obvious that there has to be a right to information equally from parents. That right to information must be taken into account in the context that there are women who, simply by saying so, are going to face very difficult situations; difficult to the extent that they can run certain risks to their integrity, contempt or the obligation to have that child on their own. But what should we do? The law itself establishes a solution for us. I believe that here we must ensure and seek balances between the right to information and the right to protection of minors. And that gives us the Civil Code itself, ladies and gentlemen, which establishes the role of the judicial defender when there are positions affecting minors and there are conflicting interests. We therefore believe that our amendment improves the rule, seeks balance and guarantees the protection of both the right to information and the right of minors. We hope that this amendment will be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Méndez Monasterio has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, they are once again bringing to this House another initiative on death, but no solution to the real problems of real women; they only offer death. With their already proven lack of scruples, they take advantage of the pandemic to continue to implement the globalist agenda and its Marxist ideology, their obedient project of destruction. Nearly 100,000 registered annual abortions - the real ones are many more - and more than 1 million innocent deaths in 10 years. This is what the Aided Law has achieved, configuring abortion as a right to get an appearance of good to what is the greatest evil a woman can experience, the death of her child caused by herself. [[Applauds]] It is a law contrary to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, and it took the opportunity to denounce its guilty inactivity before an appeal lodged more than ten years ago; a law which promised to repeal the People's Party, and which did not do so, cooperating in a necessary way that abortion is currently used as another contraceptive means. And they miss their results? This has to do with it, too. They emerged from the most important foundation of their project and submitted themselves to the ideology of the left. [[Applauds]] Let's go to the initiative now. Don't the more than 10,000 abortions in girls under the age of 19 seem enough? His proposal is that this number should increase. They may also not find the 60 million euros per year that the abortion industry is moving. Its perversion has reached such unacceptable levels that it is no longer credible, Your Honor, because this initiative also responds to the eagerness of a minister's sick protagonism, so it presents clever and exaggerated laws, a minister who wants to leave her seal even at the expense of the lives of innocent people and the health of adolescents, as did the Socialist Minister Aido. A minister, by the way, who from her privileged watchman has been able to have three children who take care of her by a nanny paid for by all the Spaniards, but the other women, who have problems with them, will not help them to do so. The only right you have to ensure is that they abort. How much do you spend on nearly 500 million to help pregnant women? Are you going to do something so that a pregnancy doesn't put women's jobs at risk, especially precarious jobs? Or is the only solution to keep your job going to be to abort, because it's your right? Or the only answer they give to women who are unemployed now, in the pandemic, is their son's death? Why do they not suggest that they should be informed not of how an abortion is performed, but of what it is and its consequences? They always avoid talking about post-abortion syndrome or post-traumatic stress that generates abortion in many women; several reports show this. There is a high risk of irreversible psychological sequelae, which is also higher in adolescents. But they prevent that information, they don't want the decision to abort to be a free act, they don't want a single day of reflection, they don't want them to think. In short, they don't want free women. Without information, without reflection, driven by a serious and difficult emotional conflict, you take advantage of it so that there is only one way out. It is immoral and cruel to favour abortion as the only possible decision, while leopardizing information that could alter that dramatic decision. Their perversion is so great that they even prevent in some town hall that it can be derived from associations that help many women to have their children, organizations that now, in the pandemic, are having a bad time and to those from here we want to congratulate, because they save many lives and comfort many others. [[Applauds]] There is no need to appeal to international conferences, especially if they do not reveal their hidden interests, because the real right to sexual and reproductive health must be to prevent it from being put at risk by all means with an abortion and to be used as a means of contraception. It is scientific evidence that endangers the health of women by having their child cause an abortion; it is only necessary to appeal to the truth printed in the laws of nature because, when they are transgressed, they only bring inexorably pain and destruction. [[applause]] Obviously, they are two antagonistic visions, they are two opposing positions. You propitiate death and we defend life. What journey, what future do your ideas have? Personal destruction and social destruction. Just death. The future does not belong to them, it belongs only to the truth, to those who believe that in the family, in the care of the elderly and in the value of children's lives is true progress. That is why we have tabled an amendment to draw up a law on the protection of the unborn and motherhood that provides information, support, help and alternatives and, consequently, the repeal of the Aided Law.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u121	Mrs. Méndez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u122	I'm done, Madam President. VOX will always be in the defense of life, from conception to natural death. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Mendez. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u124	President, with your permission, a preliminary question. As a deputy for Jaén and neighbor of Linares, I want to show my rejection of the brutal aggression that a father and his daughter have suffered in my land and I want to send a message of support to my city. [[Applauds]] In Linares there are many people who are having a very bad time, ladies and gentlemen. Turning to the question, I would like to begin by reading a text. I quote you because I decide: 'Because I decide, I am free and I live in democracy, I demand that the current law on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy be maintained for the sake of moral autonomy, the preservation of freedom of conscience and the guarantee of the plurality of interests of all women'. Ladies and gentlemen, this fragment is part of the text that the Freedom Train delivered in 2014 to the government of Mariano Rajoy. There are many and many of us who were on the streets of Madrid and we remember that day well; surely they also remember their lordships of the People's Party: that mobilization of women cost Minister Gallardón the post. The feminists put in their place those who tried to end the rights conquered and the feminists will also put you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in your place. Today, I defend here, in this rostrum, exactly the same thing that the female comrades of the feminist movement defended on February 1, 2014. We advocate that the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act be maintained as adopted in 2010 and, therefore, repeal the modification made by the People's Party in 2015. The 2010 Act, the law promoted by Minister Bibiana Aido, responded to a double demand of the feminist movement. Firstly, the legislative recognition of sexual and reproductive rights in Spain and, secondly, facilitated the interruption of pregnancy without assumptions, guardianship or permits. A statute of deadlines. The Aided Law is a guaranteed law, but today the only challenge it faces is not in its articulation, not even in its coverage. The challenge lies in the implementation of the law itself. I will focus on two issues that are priorities for the development of this rule. First, we need to push forward the sexual and reproductive health strategy that drives public policies on education and health in relation to the prevention of unwanted pregnancies, for example. Secondly, we must guarantee the exercise of the right to abortion without harassment. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow ultra-Catholic groups to harass women at the door of clinics; we cannot consent to this. [[Applauds]] Is the 2010 law a good law? The answer is blunt: yes. He's only got one challenge, implementing it. Ladies and gentlemen, is there anything to touch on that law? Yes, the modification of the People's Party, which left the most vulnerable women, the sixteen-and-seventeen-year-olds, in defenseless. Ladies and gentlemen, is it right to open the law? No, it is not, and this initiative of United We can propose to open the law, by the way, against an unfavorable report of the Ministry of Health itself, which is competent in this law. We understand that if you, ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations, want to address issues such as reproductive exploitation as a form of violence, rather than a non-law proposal, what you would have to do is incorporate into the law of sexual violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2010 law achieved a broad consensus, 184 Members supported it, we achieved unity on the left, and other political groups also joined. Therefore, this is the law of consensus, a law attended by experts and civil society, and a law that citizenship endorsed, and it was the citizenship itself that protected it on the streets. That is why the Freedom Train triumphed, because the streets were filled with women and men who wanted to protect the law. By the way, the Freedom Train, nothing suspicious of being short on feminist politics. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, opening the abortion law is not a good thing, and our amendment goes in that direction. I'm on my way. I want to take advantage of this intervention to recognize all the feminists who gave and won the battle of February 1, 2014, that of the Freedom Train,...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u125	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u126	I'm finishing up, Madam President. ... many of them radical feminists, many of them have been fighting for more than forty years and many of them have been militants in the ranks of the Socialist Party. All the women we are younger owe a lot and we thank them for everything. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Berja. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u128	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, two points to the representative of VOX, who, by the way, when I was a member of the PP, was rapporteur to me discussing the abortion law that we discussed today. I thought the same thing you think now, but I'm going to ask you a question first of all: What would I have done if VOX were in the government and had repealed it, that is, if I had a law of my own, as you propose? Would there have been zero abortions in the Spanish state or would there have been the same abortions with women bleeding in any cuchitril, without the support of the law? Please... [[Rumors]] And the second question, that of natural death, with which you have completed your intervention. Do you know that healing is preventing a person's natural death? So let's know where we put the boundaries. I'm going to what's the issue that brings us today. Looks like it's the second chapter of The Rose War. The first one we have had with the proposed law and now we are going with this issue. I will apply to you, Mr de Podemos, the same or similar criterion as to those of the Socialist Party in considering the proposal for a law. This non-law proposal for us starts with two misconceptions, Mrs Fernández Castañón. First, this whole series of issues so profound, important and amending should not be presented in a non-legislative proposal, first, because it is important enough to raise it in a GNP. And because you can't present an 11-point GNP. There is no one who accepts that, of a stroke, eleven points, as much in agreement as one can be and as much in agreement as one can be on some of the issues. That's -- forgive me for the expression -- uninhabitable. Is this for approval or is it for testing someone or some? You're in the government. You're holding the Equality portfolio. You have been credited with safeguarding and amending the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act, which regulates the voluntary termination of pregnancy. For this reason, instead of presenting PNL that are useless, bring, if you want to do so, a proper bill. Whenever their partners leave them, because now it seems that this corresponds to Health. Well, let's see how this little battle ends. And how is it right? For to begin by not breaking the consensus that forged the above-mentioned law - which cost quite a lot - and seeing what unites us and dissipating what distances us, seeing the opportunity or not of the suggested changes, and whether it is the time or not for it. If it is to return to the original law, here they will have us, but we will not accept that we be scammed with other incorporations that are neither necessary nor part of this law. Besides, they talk about other things that, if you want to relate them, you can do, of course, but for what? We opposed and continue to do so the changes that the People's Party introduced, changes, by the way, in a law that they themselves resorted to the Constitutional, and that is called swimming and keeping clothes, right? You would have been more consistent. If the law is appealed, do not change, because it is appealed. And since it comes to the case, the same applies to the Constitutional Court. How it may have taken so many years to resolve, when for other topics, for example, Catalonia spread the matter with incredible speed, while this resolution sleeps the dream of the righteous. We also believe that you, in your desire to take over and legislate, are over and over, because you can take over. Do not interfere in matters such as health or education. The autonomous communities are already at large to decide how their capacity for self-government is applied and developed. For example, sex education in Euskadi or Navarre. We're not gonna decide here how to do it, are we? Some of us already do it in Euskadi, for example, and the one who does not, is his problem, but cannot be replaced by elevation. That's centralism or statism. We don't like that of: I decide and execute you. The PNV over there doesn't happen. Facilitating access to contraceptive methods - that is an approach you also say - would of course be missing more at this stage. But what is the emergency contraception that you pose? Because I'd like to know if you're referring to the next day's pill. Okay, but under medical supervision. We discussed that at the same time. In the end, wanting to move forward, let's not back down.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u129	Mr. Agirretxea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u130	I'm done. It's not a substitute because, if not, we leave the responsibility of everything to women, and the boys are leaving on the subject of having no responsibility for contraception. Therefore, sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed in the law that was adopted at the time. Let's look in your way, let's look for union, and we'll all win, and so will everyone.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u131	Thank you, Mr. Agirretxea. [[Mrs Méndez Monastery: Madam President, I ask for the floor for allusions, for Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure...]] The Presidency has not considered any reference to Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Mrs. Méndez Monastery: You lied about something I didn't do]] For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Mrs Méndez Monastery: I think you should give me the floor]] You do not have the floor, Mrs Mendez. [[Méndez Monastery: It is precisely I who hate the People's Party for the issue of abortion; therefore, it is not true what it says]] Mrs Mendez, you do not have the floor. [[Mrs. Méndez Monastery continues to speak from her seat, standing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u132	Thank you, Madam President. As we have already stated on other occasions and today in connection with the proposal for a law of the Socialist Group, we believe that a political group which is part of the Government and which, in addition, holds the portfolio of Equality should formulate the relevant legislative proposals to promote the necessary legal changes or those that it considers appropriate. Surely this non-law proposal will go ahead, but with it, unfortunately, there will be no legal changes that society demands and that you promised. The provisions of the State Covenant against Gender-based Violence were not complied with, the criminal type of abuse and sexual assault was not changed, the definition of male-based violence was not changed. What we need are actions and not mere declarations of intent. With regard to PNL, first of all, we believe that it would be necessary to incorporate obstetric violence through forced abortions, among others, as a form of violence against women. However, we believe that they would be better suited to the Organic Law on Gender Violence, as reflected in the State Pact, by broadening the concept to include all types contained in the Istanbul Convention. We agree on the need to repeal the Gallardon reform of the Abortion Act, which limited the right to abortion to women between the ages of sixteen and eighteen so that they could choose freely and not under the guardianship of parents or judicial guardianship. And, of course, it must be a benefit that is available free of charge in public health, but this is already covered by the law and, therefore, the question is why appropriate measures are not taken from the Government, in coordination with the Autonomous Communities, to implement it. Another relevant issue is that of sex education. We believe that this is an outstanding issue that no state government and few autonomous governments have dared to address and that needs urgent attention. The Organic Education Law has just been passed and if you, who for other matters have no respite in measures of centralist bias, had really had an interest, you could have included a subject of affective-sexual education, but did not, and I say this fully sharing the position that the deputy of the Basque Nationalist Party has just made explicit. We agree with the proposal and we will vote in favour, but what we would like to see is that in this area, as in others, we will move from words to facts once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u134	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I've been wondering what I'm doing here for many days. First, because you already know that I do not consider it my Congress and, second, because when I see what is discussed in it and how the government works I despair even more, if that was possible. Let's see, you guys are irresponsible and I have to tell you this way. This afternoon, the law on non-discrimination and equal treatment, and now the sexual and reproductive rights of women, have been brought to the head as a Government. And what it does is that we have to hear over and over again - and, therefore, shut up because they are giving them court - arguments that lead us to the Middle Ages: nature, what Aristotle said, go. I remind Mrs de VOX that nature, among other things, has the virtue of killing us. [[Rumors]] That is, life is essential to die and as humans we have tried to make medicine evolve so that that does not happen, because we are rational beings. And after rational beings we are beings that we decided we had rights... No, I'm not crazy yet, but if I keep coded with you I'll probably end up crazy, because I hear every nonsense, whatever, it's not even in P3! [[Mrs. Esteban Calonje makes a gesture touching her head with her hand]] [[Applauds]] We're on. Then there is a new evolution, the one we try to put in the center that women, the bodies of women, are not owned by anyone but ourselves. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u135	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u136	That's right. And we're gonna keep defending him even when you guys want to stay on hold. In your private life, do whatever you want, but when we talk about politics, it would be good if we had minimal consensus. For example, the abortion law does not kill anyone, no one has been forced to abort. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Sometimes I wonder why, but it doesn't force anyone. Simply, do you want to have the creature, your daughters, your couples, who you want? Well, you have it, but I have the right to decide about my pregnancy and I have the right to decide about my body, and you will never avoid it again. [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the left benches, please agree, among other things because the first thing we demanded of Minister Montero was the repeal of the 2015 law, the amendment of the abortion law. We can do it with an extraordinary ease: we enter it, we repeal it and run. Why? Because you still don't understand that when a girl or a teenager between the ages of sixteen and eighteen - and my daughter is eighteen, I know what I'm talking about - she doesn't tell her parents what she's in because she's playing, among other things, a beating or life. And this modification created deaths. In Barcelona, you didn't read it because you just read what you want, in a teenage couple she got pregnant. She went to public health; they couldn't take care of her. He went to the pharmacy to order the pill the next day; they didn't give it to him. You know what they did? Disguise him, go to a hotel, have the kid and kill him. And now they're both in prison. Is that life? Is that what they want to condemn us to? [[Rumors]] Well, no, ladies, I keep saying that the dignity of life is decided by the mothers, the women decide on our bodies. And please do not open any more debates if it is not to resolve them because we are giving them a court that they do not deserve, but which is also very dangerous. Please reflect on everything that has to do with the right to our freedom, the right to our bodies and the right to explain that we are nobody's property, and already leave that androcentric view of medicine because obstetric violence occurs every day and almost every delivery. Please, let's move forward at once because, if not, they'll push us back. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Vallugera. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez. [[Rumors.- Mrs. Vallugera Balañà: I have just been called a murderer.-Protests of Mrs. Carvalho Dantas]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask for silence and, above all, respect, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a very complicated, very unexampling afternoon, I would say. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rise above the institution we all represent. Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u138	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The non-legislative proposal brought to us by the Parliamentary Group Podemos is another more public fight by the government partners. At the end of last month, the Ministry of Health announced and published a reform in the provision of abortion. She quickly received a reply via Twitter from the Minister of Equality, Ms. Montero, who was quick to rush against the aforementioned project, again causing a clash between the two parts of the government - who sometimes want us to believe that they are government and opposition, but that they are ultimately the same government -, reflecting that it is a real cage of crickets. Podemos's paw is dispatched with this non-law proposition. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, a non-legislative proposal, why have you not brought a reform of the abortion law to the Council of Ministers, which is what you can do, since you are ruling? Or is it that Mrs. Calvo doesn't leave Mrs. Montero? Or do you want to run so that you won't get over this afternoon, which has come from the Socialist Group the Equal Treatment Act? In short, ladies and gentlemen, very sad, the truth. We are experiencing a dramatic moment, with a pandemic that besides health is economic and is social; a pandemic that has evidenced the inequalities between women and men and in which the gender impact of COVID is aggravating the situation, and you without responding to what is important. You, as you say in my land, in La Mancha, for grapes, in your troubles, in your quarrels. Meanwhile, the reality is that women today have fewer opportunities than a year ago. Since Mrs Montero is Minister of Equality, in the last year, we have dropped ten points in welfare for women. Spain is the European country that will suffer the highest rate of female unemployment by 2020, not to mention the serious problems of aggravated reconciliation with the pandemic and telework. You don't care about the real problems, about the women who want to work and can't do it, about the women who are in ERTE, about whom you don't get the answer from the minimum living income; indeed, another great failure of your Government. Ladies and gentlemen, our vote will be negative for both the substance of what is being raised and the moment it is being raised. This non-law and far-reaching proposal is to respond to the real problems women have today. They intend to repeal, they say, the Act 11/2015 passed by the People's Party to protect minors. Look, it's an aberration that they're trying to leave teenagers alone at a time as difficult as it can be to face an abortion. [[Applauds]] It's an aberration that parents, that their parents can't be with us. It is a legal aberration - I say it as a Member - but above all - I say it as a woman and as a mother - it is a human aberration. I would never want my daughter to be alone at such a difficult time in life, and I am sure that none of the mothers who sit here in this Chamber would, even if some publicly do not say so. [[Applauds]] From the People's Group we will always be in the defence of life, in the defence of women's rights, in the protection of minors, minors, adolescents, in the protection of the unborn. We'll always be there. At such an important time, so difficult for all Spaniards and all Spaniards, when everyone's collective effort is needed for economic and social recovery, we cannot understand that they bring these proposals. We want no woman to have to give up having children for economic, social or any other reasons. Proposals are needed to help and protect families, to help reconciliation, entrepreneurship, co-responsibility, and to enable women to gain access to employment. These are the challenges that Spanish society faces ahead, and these are the concerns that women have. And in the meantime you want to impose your thinking; it seems to be a competition to see who comes before: as the Socialist Group arrived before with the Law of Euthanasia, now takes the wheel of the Group We can see if you arrive before with the Law of Abortion. It is painful, sad and shameful that they are in the Government and are so irresponsible. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u139	Mrs. Romero, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u140	I'm done, Madam President. Lives are at stake; the dignity, the values of a whole society are at stake. They grow up. They assume their responsibility, their obligation, which is to improve the lives of all Spaniards, of all Spaniards, because - I don't know if they have found out - it is for what they pay them. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. [[Pause.-A cleaning service worker proceeds to disinfect the speaker's rostrum]] Mrs Fernández Castañón, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u142	We will defend the non-law proposition in its terms. And I would appreciate it, out of respect for the women who have exercised their sexual and reproductive rights...
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. The vote will take place on their terms. We'll vote in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that you will only be able to vote from your seat, identified with your name on the screen. I would also remind you that those Members who have been authorized to vote for the telematics procedure cannot do so from their seats. I would ask those who have already cast their vote to vacate the Chamber, please. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. I ask you, please, to take your seats. We are voting, first of all, on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is comprehensive for equal treatment and non-discrimination. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 110 plus 235 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 59 plus 101 telematics votes, 160; against, 52 telematics votes; abstentions, 51 plus 82 telematics votes, 133.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u145	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which is an organization against illegal employment and for the protection of the safety and security of persons and things in the communities of owners. [[File number 122/000065]]
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u146	We proceed to vote to take into consideration the bill of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, organic against illegal occupation and for neighborhood coexistence and the protection of the security of people and things in the communities of owners. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 110 plus 235 telematics votes, 345; in favour, 45 plus 113 telematics votes, 158; against, 65 plus 114 telematics votes, 179; abstentions, 8 telematics votes.
ParlaMint-ES_2021-02-16-CD210216.u147	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. It was eight and twenty minutes of the night.
